ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29640	Mr. President, as a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I would point out the high degree of threat to the safety and harassment of children via the Internet, which is not only the problem of this society, which is the problem of modern society, because children and young people inevitably come into contact with computers and communication technologies. Information is part of the school program. Of course, children should be allowed to use computer technology and it is difficult and harmful to ban the use of computers and the Internet from developing children. But computers and computer networks are at the same time a similar means of carrying out a series of crimes, where children appear as victims of these crimes. There are a large number of abuses of information technologies and a large number of crimes in which the method of execution appears to be an element of illegal Internet use in the area of high-tech crime. What's interesting is that one half of the children have experienced unpleasantness and harassment over the phone, and even one third of children on the Internet. What we need to be concerned about is the willingness of the children to talk about it. Of the children surveyed, three quarters of children have the highest confidence in their parents, and significantly less in the police, class elders, comrades, school psychologists, and 5% of children do not report a threat to safety and harassment via the Internet. Chet, blog forum, Facebook profile, Twitter and similar places on the Internet, where young people exchange opinions and communicate, are popular, but also attractive places for many people with bad intentions, disturbed personalities, psychiatric cases, people with deviating behaviour, criminals, people who are falsely represented and in the beginning have bad intentions. The abuses are very large, from threatening messages, insults, spreading rumors, blackmail and various kinds of harassment. Although our criminal legislation, by Article 138. The criminal code, for the threat of security, prescribes a threatened prison sentence for up to three years, and the sentence closes from one to eight years if the work of this member is done to the President of the Republic, the MP, the Prime Minister, the members of the Government, the Constitutional Court Judge, the Public Prosecutor and the Deputy Prosecutor, according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, requires much stronger police and judicial authorities and the tightening of criminal sanctions when victims of crimes are committed through high-tech crime children, because the consequences of these crimes can leave major consequences for the psycho-physical development of the child and his future. Because of that, my questions to the police minister are next. What will police specifically do to increase the level of confidence in police and find more effective the perpetrator of high-tech crime and the Internet? Does the Justice Department share the opinion of our MP group that a more offensive criminal policy is needed for crimes committed through computers and computer networks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29641	Are any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29642	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I ask the question to the entire government and ask the Government to give me notice of what kind of relationship it thinks Serbia has towards Vojvodina, according to the autonomy of Vojvodina, if this kind of mistreatment, humiliation, disenfranchisement, as shown in the latest decisions of the Ministry of Finance when amendments to the province of Vojvodina have been rejected, or in one political decision of the Constitutional Court when it comes to the constitutionality of the Statute of the Vojvodina? So it is that this is a highly centralised state which is the image and opportunity of the 2006 Constitution, which apparently played a clear role in preventing, as far as decentralisation of the state is concerned, from hiding the apparent defeat of the policy led towards Kosovo, from simply shutting Serbia down in some frameworks that would prevent any kind of development and awakening of the potential of this country. When we said that this constitution was very harmful to Serbia, we were right. Today Serbia is a high-indebted state with a huge public debt, with a huge economic crisis, with one undefined policy, an unclear policy towards Vojvodina. You have closed one chapter by signing the Brussels Agreement but obviously you have no willingness to make politics clear about the autonomy of all levels of government, starting from Vojvodina to local self-government. What does that really mean? It means that you want to stay in this situation where you are now, to decide everything, that you're the only one who wonders what's going to happen in this country. You do not care that this country has failed economically, you are not interested in the fact that in Vojvodina, GDP is currently below the average of GDP at the state level for the first time since 1918. You are not interested in the fact that Serbia's most developed part is on its knees by yesterday. You don't care that if you don't change that policy, only a new political problem can arise. Do you think that with this Constitutional Court decision you can do something useful for Serbia? Whether the political decision that effectively erases the Statute of Vojvodina, which in fact opens up a new political crisis in this country that is already burdened by the economic crisis, can stop this freedom of Serbia from falling into a crackdown unless you have a clear answer to all open issues that you are definitely not closing. So, I'm asking the government for a notice – is it planning to launch constitutional reform? Does he intend to do anything to finally have a clear policy towards his local self-government, according to his province of Vojvodina, and a policy that won't actually push problems under the carpet? Does this government think it is capable of changing that constitutional framework that has stopped Serbia from moving ahead, while keeping it in time and space that will only provide for a general collapse in the future?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29643	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29644	My colleagues and colleagues, listing on the budget of some public enterprises, and this is now an ongoing topic, I was shocked that the "Serbishum" has very little profit. In 2012, 51 million dinars and 41 million in 2011. Now imagine a company that has so much wealth and so much capital that is measured by dozens, if not more than millions of euros, that has a profit of 500,000 euros. Since Minister Radulovic is looking for ID cards, it somehow seems to me that I am looking at the financial reports of the "Serbian State" shows that something is wrong there. No need for that ID. There was no mention of the "Serbishum" around this calling that didn't fill everything with a personal card from public enterprises. So I ask Minister Radulovic how is that possible? What happens to "Serbishums" when he doesn't mention them, and the numbers are so alarming? That's about the first question. Did they deliver their ID card, what it says is what capital is, whether it is well assessed, etc. Because it's shocking that for example. The "Serbishum" has a profit of 50 million, and the Post office has over a billion dinars. The second question is even weirder. I don't know if you colleagues and colleagues and the public certainly don't, you know what's going on with "Serbishuma" management. In January 2010, then, the director, Dusko Polic, resigned. Be careful, he was appointed to the government that managed and led such a large public enterprise of the Serbian state, he resigned. By resigning, he transferred the director's powers to his deputy, a certain Igor Braunovic. That Igor Braunovic is not named face. He's placed a face by the director, which means he has nothing to do with the government. From January 2010 until today's "Serbishum" is run by this man, Igor Braunovic, who was neither appointed by the government, nor by V.D. but on the basis of the delegated powers of three and a half years ago, a person has been appointed to run such a large public enterprise. The government has changed, Cvetkovic's government has left, yours has come, but nothing has changed. It's a big mystery, and it's even bigger with mysteries, which Minister Radulovic calls everything and doesn't mention any "Serbiasum" or that face that doesn't run "Serbiasum" against the current Law on Public Enterprises that you greatly violate, and we criticise you, but I think he runs "Serbiasum" and the contrary to the previous Law on Public Enterprises. I ask Minister Radulovic what's going on in "Serbishama" and how is it possible that someone for three and a half years runs such a large company, without having anything to do with the government because he was appointed by the previous director who resigned, handed over his powers and it lasted three and a half years? What about the competitions? Are we not talking about the departisation of public enterprises, are we talking about transparency, whether the law is passed for less or more, for Bajatovic and Milan Krkobic not because they were appointed before the law, but "Serbia" seems to be outside of all laws. Muk, silence, and the number is so shocking, such a small profit. Look, there's a story that "Serbiasum" is in some depth of over 100m euros. There is a story, and I am an MP, and I don't want to do stories and talk about stories, and that's why we have an institution of parliamentary issues, and I ask Mr. Radulovic to clarify this mystery about the business of "Serbishuma", and even more about the appointed person who has been running this public company for three and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29645	The word is made by MP Marko Milutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29646	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am referring the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – whether a referendum on the abolition of courts and prosecutors in the territory of the AP KIM and the transfer of the same separatist authority to Hashim Thaci will be called. It has already been 24 days since the adoption of the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. At that time, we instructed you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to pass a special law that would regulate the seat of the courts and the prosecutor's office at KIM is deeply anti-constitutional. Article 142. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates and states that judicial authority is unique and Article 182. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the essential autonomy of KIM will be regulated by law-making procedures for changing the constitution. In fact, it is impossible to prescribe judicial authority within autonomy, and that is what is unimaginable under the Constitution and the positive legal system of our country. However, on 17 June this year, the VSS reached decision No 06-00-25/2013, which ordered all the courts in KIM, hence the Higher, Basic and Violent Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, to decide only in cases starting on 15 July this year, with the obligation to make a decision in these cases by 1 September 2013, and to provide information on these cases to Eulex. With that in mind, it should not be surprising that Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's statement that a new KIM judicial system has been established since 1 September. Furthermore, the same decision has been ordered to record and maintain acts initiating proceedings after 15 July 2013 in order to subsequently deliver and resolve within the framework of judicial authorities established by the first agreement on principles governing the normalisation of relations. So, by decision of the VSS, we have derivated our legal system, our laws and our constitution. This warrant also includes the delivery of all cases which were formed after 15 July this year to judicial authorities established in accordance with the agreement and in co-operation with Eulex. Such an effect of the decision of the High Council of the judiciary is such that in courts, judicial units and departments on the territory of the AP KiM, practical work has been suspended on all cases which were received after 15 July 2013. It is clear that in this way, the High Council of the judiciary misused its powers when it decided to order courts in the territory of the AP KiM, to stop acting on the cases received after July 15th, with the announcement of the handover of these cases, entities and courts that are not an integral part of our constitutional justice system and the judicial network in the Republic of Serbia. The VSS does not have such authority, it has never had it, nor can it have any authority under the new laws. With this decision, the VSS took the first step towards shutting down the judicial authority, that is, prepared the terrain and set the way for the executive authorities to implement the provision so-called. The Brussels Agreement. I remind you once again that 24 days have passed since the adoption of the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts, and under this law it is envisaged that a special law should be adopted by 31 December to regulate the seats and areas of courts. What are the real and ultimate intentions of the legislator, it can be very easy to conclude on the basis of the provisions of so-called. A Brussels agreement whose assessment of constitutionality has been sought by us, which stipulates that the courts that will operate under the Kosovo legal system, meaning that there will be no more courts and prosecutors as works of a single network of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with provision 142. The Constitution of Serbia. To this end, both the VSS and the State's major prosecutors, or the Republic's public prosecutor, have made binding decisions that would deny citizens the right to access their country's courts and which will have to address the courts and prosecutors of the state of Kosovo in the coming period. I can only say - embarrassing. The next negotiations between Kosovo and Serbia on the table will include only a Kosovo version of the proposal of the Serb municipality's Statute. And it appears today in the Pristina press. And the draft provides an association, otherwise Kosovo calls this community an association and Belgrade a community, empowers it to form funds, opens representative offices and opens public institutions. The source of these papers said the final version is expected to be adopted at the next meeting of Prime Minister Dacic and Hashim Thaci. The legal basis for the adoption of the statutes is the laws of Kosovo and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I ask the question - when will the Prime Minister, the first Vice President or Prime Minister and the Government in general cease to deceive the public and citizens about the great Brussels victory and recognise that Kosovo and Metohija and its citizens in Kosovo and Metohija delivered to the government of Hashim Thaci?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29647	The word has Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29648	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that this autumn's weather for wheat sowing has gone hand in hand to agricultural producers and that adequate areas of mercantile wheat were expected to be sown this year. However, a catastrophic agrarian policy of the government has led to Serbia may have to import mercantile wheat next year, as the government did not adequately react on the market and in July and August did not buy enough mercantile wheat in the month. After the fact that we have a record harvest this year, we come into a situation that we may also have to import mercantile wheat next year. I remind you that last year, the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate purchased wheat at the price of 23 dinars and that this year producers are left to the mercy of cartels and oligopolies, both in the case of wheat and in the case of corn and sunflowers. The result of this government's disastrous policy is that farmers could not cover even basic production costs. So I ask the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management the question – how much this autumn has sown a hectare of mercantile wheat and how much is the percentage of that area sown to declared and certified seeds? The price of sunflowers this year was 26 dinars. The price of sunflower last year was 56 dinars. We are witnessing that in the shops the price of edible oil is now the same as in previous years, which testifies that there are oligopolies and cartels and there is an abuse of dominant position on the market. So I ask the government what are enterprises to combat the abuse of dominant influence on the market and the formation of oligopoly, especially in agriculture and the food industry? The next question is directed to the Ministry of Energy. Under the Law on Realisation and Construction of the South Stream System, Article 15, the government was to educate the occasional working body. Is that body educated? If so, who are members of that working body and by what standard are they chosen? Has this working body started working and what has been the result of work so far? Do members of the occasional working body receive compensation for work and in what amount? The third question is directed at the Government, since we have a valid 1996 Cooperatives Act, which has been modified in previous years, but not significantly changed, when can we expect a new draft of the Cooperative Law? When can we expect a new proposal on the agricultural land law, since 2006 is no longer in agreement with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? The fourth question I want to ask the Ministry of Justice, because I've received many letters from court experts who have not been paid fees and rewards for their work. The court experts are an unforgivable element in the decision-making process and their work has the greatest impact on the decision-making process. There is evidence that the fees for the work of the court's craftsmen are not paid, that is, to be paid by a year and a half late. My question to the Ministry of Justice is – when will compensation and rewards be paid for the work of judicial craftsmen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29649	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to request information or an explanation? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions, Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance, Saša Radulovic, Minister of Industry, Prof. Dragan Glamočić, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Ivan Tasovec, Minister of Culture and Information and Vanje Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, I have also called for the meetings to attend: Nikola Ćorsović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Nikša Vusurović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Administration and Nada Mirkovic, Head of the Department of Finance. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 12th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2014. You have received amendments to the Bill of Law by the Members: Bojan Đurić, Judita Popović, Gordana Čomić, Ivan Jovanovic, Radmila Gerov, Borislav Stefanović, Bojana Bozanić, Božidar Djelić, Dusan Milisavljevic, Mladjan Dinkić, Nenad Popović, Milan Lapčević, Ružica Igić, Teodor Vlahović, Konstavan Samofalov, Milan Mirovalić, Gorica Gajić, Dušica Morčević, Miroslav Petković, Marko Milutinović, Aleksandar Pajčić, Milica Vojić, Donka Banović, Donka Banović, Žežana Žažanović, Žaljan Žaljanović, Ivan Jožan Žačan Žačan Žaković, Ivan Žažić Žažić Žažić Žaković, Ivan Žažić Žaković, Nenažić Žiković, Nena Koković, Nena Kit, Neko Štko Štić, Kražić, Kražić, Nekotko Štić, Ivan Štić, Ivan Štić, Ivan Štić and Imić and Imić. National MPs Snezana Stojanovic Plassic and Nenad Kitanovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment they submitted together to Article 32. In writing, the MPs withdrew the signatures, saying: Gorica Gajic, with the amendment that she submitted together with MP Bojan Božanić to members 3 and 5, and the MPs Jadranka Joksimovic, Marija Todorovic and Srdjan Sajn, together with the amendments to Article 7 that were submitted together with 62 MPs of the SNS parliamentary group. National MP Teodora Vlahovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 1. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 1st Amendment. On this occasion, I welcome the President of the Assembly to Mr Pastor and Mr Radoman. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29650	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for the opportunity to say a few sentences in the next two, three minutes about the amendment that has been defined by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. We have defined three amendments, compared to the draft budget law, with a clear ambition to try to bring the bill closer to what we see as a constitutional guarantee under Article 184(4) through the amendment. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say that this year is different from the previous years, because over the past years we've had the opportunity to make our views known in the phase of budget preparation, and this year that possibility didn't exist, so this is our only opportunity to publicly state what we think about this thing. Because of the shortness of time and because last year, at about the same time, I had the opportunity to talk to you about our seeing this problem. I don't want to talk about constitutional right to autonomy, I don't want to talk about the principle of rule of law, I don't want to talk about the principle of subsidiarity, of decentralisation, of equal regional development, of poverty affecting everyone, of employment percentages, of unemployment, of numbers of active, of maintenance, of outflows of people and of occurrences, not only in Vojvodina, that an increasing number of people want to learn Hungarian to get citizenship, I don't want to talk about the creation of GDP, of exports and imports, of the consumer basket, of development, of locomotives, of trains, of who is guilty of this situation, of whether it's inherited, whether the majority of them now make government, in the past year and a half, could do anything or not. I don't want to talk about all these things. I don't want to talk about the issue of ratings, I don't want to talk about election results, I don't want to talk about the question of legitimacy, and I just don't want to talk about the Constitutional Court's decision, the Statute and the disputes about it. I want, in addition to everything we've said about these things in the previous period, to point out one thing that I don't think is political nature, but is a matter of life nature. I want to tell you that we are experiencing a situation where we find ourselves alarming, because we appreciate that it is not applied in the same way equal right to life, equal right to health. Let me only say a few figures in favor of that claim. According to standards for every 350,000 inhabitants, there should be one hemodynamic hall. That means there should be six against the Vojvodina. We got one and a half. In the rest of Serbia, for the rest of 2/3 of the population were 15. Today, ladies and gentlemen, 694 patients are waiting. Today, 92 patients are waiting for a stent. These figures were originally 1/3 of this, 331, or 13. An even more catastrophic situation is related to patients waiting for radiation. The situation, ladies and gentlemen, is that for Vojvodina, for two million inhabitants today, you have two machines used in two shifts. Waiting for radiation is about six months. The one where the doctor says he has to wait for radiation for six months, more or less, I think it's clear what kind of message he got. I must tell you, fortunately, in the rest of the Republic, that waiting until one month. We can discuss these things with a political aspect, we can outwit ourselves about who's guilty, but it's a fundamental question, ladies and gentlemen, what can we do to stop this situation, what can we do to stop this sinking situation? Mr. Minister, what can we expect from next year? I'm familiar with your statement yesterday, but I have to tell you that we are not satisfied with the promise that in 2014 we will start making laws and that we can hope that since 2015, this law will start to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29651	By amendment, Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29652	Thank you very much. I'm glad you didn't come back to this discussion about who did it. I think there are a lot of parts of Serbia where things don't work or work in a non-balanced way and I'm glad we're gonna focus or at least, if I understand correctly, your position on how to change it and improve it in the future. As you know, we have a situation where the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina de facto doesn't exist, regardless of what the Constitution says should have been adopted. We also have a situation where the Law on the financing of local self-government is something we need to change. Simply, from the position in which we are currently not returning, as I say, to the past, I think it is only constructive to sit together in both of these forums, means, when we talk about it, I mean local self-government, I think of the AP Vojvodina, and to put on paper, without mixing some too many of these day-to-day topics and pointing fingers, which are powers, i.e. the powers that any local self-government, which AP Vojvodina should have and how it will finance, that this balance will be realistic in the sense that what local self-government, or Vojvodina are earning, corresponds to what their responsibilities are on the other hand, and that what is necessary, and I believe that in some cases it will certainly be the case, is replaced by the budget of the Republic. I think it's a much broader question, but it's also our obligation, because the next budget I'd like to be more than just the republican budget we're defending, which is the case here today, and in local self-government iVojvodina and we're talking only in the context of the transfer, which I also don't think is good. I think that next year we should have a whole consolidated budget as a law that we will defend in accordance with the amended Budgetary System Act and that in the context of that, we will address the issue of jurisdiction, as well as the financing of the AP Vojvodina and local self-government. I wish we could do more in that domain than in previous years, as regards the financing of the Vojvodina and the transfer funds, that is, how the funds are allocated. However, in this situation without law and without clearly defined ingenuity, unfortunately, it is neither better nor worse, as I have already said. I'm undermining, it's not good enough for next year. I'd like to sit constructively and discuss it, either in the context of that task force, but honestly and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29653	Right on the line, Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29654	Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply, but I must tell you that in recent years we have heard many times these sentences. From now on, I don't and I hope that you will be a discontinuity. Too many times these sentences have been spoken and, unfortunately, no step has been made. I must also tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not a promising circumstance that after the assembly of the AP Vojvodina adopted the platform as seeing the arrangements of this issue, I, as president of the Assembly, referred that platform to the prime minister of the republican government more than a month ago. Unfortunately, one month was not enough for any signal to return to that memo, compared to that initiative. For this reason, I hope we can make a step, but taught by experience so far, I'm not entirely sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29655	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29656	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Pastor, here after a year the representatives of the AP Vojvodina, headed by the President of the Assembly, come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to seek respect for the constitution on the issue of the financing of the AP Vojvodina. For the DSS, the funds defined by the Constitution, which should belong to the AP Vojvodina, were not disputed for a moment. And when the constitution was passed, the first government to comply with those provisions was the government headed by Vojislav Kostunica. The question of respect for the Constitution is our priority and we have talked about it many times here. However, there are several questions that need to be discussed in this situation that we are now in. It's a question now for both you and the government. A year has passed since you referred the same question to the previous minister and to the government and we listened to the National Assembly that a working group would be formed and a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina would be passed. It's been a year. Who is responsible that we do not have that law in the National Assembly? I'd like to get an answer this time. The second question is also important and I point it to you, Mr. Pastor. It's important to refer to the Constitution, but completely, not only when it suits us. Mr Pastor, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has declared 60% of the provisions of the Statute unconstitutional. Your reaction and the reaction of the government in Vojvodina was not to mark the Constitution, but to change the Constitution. We are asking whether we are referring to the Constitution in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia only when it suits us, and when it does not suit us, we are asking for a change of that Constitution? Just to be fair to the public and to the National Assembly and to the citizens. It is not disputed that the National Assembly and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must 7% in the last dinar respect and transfer the AP to Vojvodina, but, Mr Pastor, any other provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the area of the AP Vojvodina must be respected, not called for to change that Constitution in order for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to conform to your unconstitutional Statute. I think you are always welcome to the National Assembly, that you will always have support from our MP group when it comes to the clear jurisdiction of the rights that the Republic has towards the AP, but I ask that, when it comes to the Constitution, when it comes to the AP Vojvodina, you be fair to the end and ask that all provisions of the Constitution be fully respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29657	Right on the line, Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29658	Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to be extremely honest. I want to tell you that as far as the Constitutional Court's decision is concerned, by this moment, the Constitutional Court's decision has not been given the opportunity to see and read. We had a chance to see and read the statement. We await the Constitutional Court's decision today, tomorrow. I assure you that we will act in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and don't have any dilemma about it at all. In the end, the task can only be jointly resolved and thus the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina will adopt the statute, and the same statute should come with this granting of consent. It's impossible to end this procedure so we don't reach a consensus about it. That's one part of it. The second part of the matter, you will allow me to have one or the same attitude in relation to certain solutions and now a valid constitution. I'm giving that attitude because I think it's part of the public speech. It's part of a public discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29659	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29660	Mr. Pastor, I sincerely want to believe in your good intentions. However, prompted by the passing of time and the facts that this passage of time has brought, I have to express my doubts. In July of last 2012, the Constitutional Court announced 22 provisions of the Law establishing jurisdiction unconstitutional. If you remember well, in the National Assembly, when you were staying and when we also discussed amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and the Budget Law, we also discussed the need for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly and the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, as soon as they sat down and passed a new law on determining jurisdiction, which is in accordance with the Constitution. How long has it been, Mr. Pastor? For a year and a half, there's been some sort of adjustment, a need to meet, an analysis, and an unconstitutional state. I'm afraid in the next six months we'll be witnessing the same situation. When I said about the reactions to the Statute, with all due respect, we are a democratic society and everyone has a first opinion, but a little wonder that it is the first reaction – we must change the Constitution. The first reaction to the fact that someone was caught doing unconstitutional things when it comes to important acts such as statutes. I think it was almost four years ago that we should have respected what our MP group said, in the end we initiated the whole procedure and we showed that we were right, that our proposals, our suggestions about unconstitutionalness, we certainly wouldn't have come into this situation. I ask you that as soon as possible from the position you are in, urgently initiate this procedure, that the next six months of work be completed, and be assured that the DSS will continuously and continuously and in the National Assembly of Serbia and AP Vojvodina, remind you that you are doing an unconstitutional thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29661	The word is Istvan Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29662	I must say that the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the Law of Jurisdiction by the AP Vojvodina's authority has been fully accepted and implemented since the first day. We have fully complied with our regulations with the Constitutional Court's decision. I also have to tell you that I should draw attention to the fact that this esteemed relationship has certain tasks. From that point on, I think it's a bit of a problem criticizing that kind of ferocity to refer to me. On the other hand, I have to tell you that in the coming months I can't imagine a different approach than three things being solved in the package: the Statute, the Law of Jurisdiction and the Law on Financing. If we don't manage to solve this package in agreement and bring this prized home in the next six months, then I think we're going to have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29663	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29664	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Pastor, Mr. Radoman, I don't think anyone in this room should have a dilemma whether to support this amendment or not. Because this amendment requires nothing more than what Mr Palalic said, which is respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think that every time the issue of respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should be very clear in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be respected in all its parts. In this regard, I expect all parliamentary groups and all MPs to vote in favour of this amendment because it is only an invitation to comply with the constitutional provision. The constitutional provisions give rise to certain financial obligations, and these constitutional provisions also give rise to all consequences of non-compliance and constitutional provisions and are clearly visible. We talked about them from the DS in the previous period, which is the fact that the health system suffers, that it suffers education and other very important areas of everyday life. It is no wonder that health institutions, such as the “Clinic Center”, such as the most famous institute in the country “Sremska Kamrica”, do not have enough drugs, when radiation machines do not work, when mammographers do not work, Minister Krstic, are very important for human health. People have been waiting three months for radiation. Minister Krstic, when I recently asked your colleague Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic – which is why the apparatus, which I have listed and in other parts of Serbia, is a better situation but similar, she said – I am not in charge of it. I said, "Who is it?" She said, "Minister of Finance." I asked – why? She said – because they proposed the Public Procurement Act and now they don't want to change it, and because of that Public Procurement Act, they can't implement procurement procedures, so the appliances that need to be repaired are waiting for a year, while the other apparatus is being broken down, and so the clinical centres don't have the opportunity to provide health care to their patients. Do you know about Minister Baptizer? Are you familiar with that fact? It's this amendment. That's between the two of us and this amendment. It concerns the ordinary life of Serbian citizens. Since I said that the application of the Constitution is not worth much talking about, it should be applied, I believe that it should have been applied in this National Assembly. Minister Ilic should not have been inaugurated a month ago when he literally encouraged the MPs to adopt an unconstitutional provision amending the Law on Legalisation and when MPs of the ruling coalition voted in favour of the provision, with an explanation given by Minister Ilic, that the Constitutional Court was ineffective and that in four years these non-constitutional provisions which will then be declared unconstitutional would certainly be without the constitutional decree in question unconstitutional. So this assembly has recently voted for such an amendment that has practically changed the whole of the law. In that sense, I call first of all the DSS MPs to be consistent and that when they say, you respect the Constitution here, and you do not respect it there, that they do not behave accordingly. That they say, yes, this provision and this amendment goes with the aim of correcting the non-constitutional provision, we will vote in favour of that provision, as we have participated in the submission of an initiative to declare some of the provisions of the Vojvodina Statute unconstitutional rather than elaborate in a similar way that you object to others, that it is not so important to apply this provision here. This provision is important, and as we hear from the representatives of the AP Vojvodina, they fully respect the first decision of the Constitutional Court and will respect the new decision of the Constitutional Court. The only question again is for the finance minister – which is why for a year and a half nothing happens to the task force that was supposed to draft a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29665	Replica, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29666	I want to replicate, given that the above-mentioned DSS is in the context of the fact that this problem, when it comes to providing 7% of the funds by the Republic of the AP Vojvodina, has been going on since 2007. How is it that the DS just now remembered this problem, even though it was in power all that time, even though it was all the time adopting budgets in the National Assembly that the AP Vojvodina cut off those funds? When they came to the opposition, they called us, called us the new ruling majority. Probably if we went back to power here, it would go on the same way. Please be extremely consistent and consequential. You haven't fulfilled that provision in four years. The Democratic Party of Serbia and SVM in the National Assembly said you were violating the Budget Law. We're still saying that, you've come to the opposition and you're joining us. Therefore, at the same time you have passed an unconstitutional statute, an unconstitutional law establishing jurisdiction. All the time we've been consistent on this matter and submitted amendments and discussed here at the National Assembly. Now, AP Vojvodina, where you still have power, submits amendments here and asks for the same. I ask you, do not call the DSS, at least when it comes to respecting the Constitution and at least when it comes to the AP Vojvodina, according to the powers they write in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29667	Replica, MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29668	I truly greatly appreciate Mr Palalić's expertise and in many things we agree, but here simply Mr Palalic is wrong. For the first time last year, when the Law on the Budgetary System was adopted, a 7% provision from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was amended, or relativised, in the sense that 7% of the budget was prescribed as 7% of the fiscal revenues, Mr Palalic. So, for the first time. Never before has the 7%, even when the Budgetary System Act was not questioned. I really don't know what you're talking about. It never happened. There was slowness, perhaps on some other issues, but the threat of the Constitution was the first time last year around the same time we were bringing, that is, when the ruling majority passed an unconstitutional Budgetary System Act, which made 7% less than 7%. In that sense, Mr. Palalic and all those who listen, this is for the public to talk, but to be precise, it's simply not true. For the first time, perhaps the previous government is with intent because it is not in government in Vojvodina, perhaps for some other reasons it has violated the Constitution and a provision that is very clear, and the numbers are always clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29669	Just because of this system, so people can report, I'll announce the order of the people's members of Parliament. We have to delete the list. So Judita Popovic, Maja Gojkovic, Zoran Kasalovic, Srdjan Sajn and Bojan Đuric. They've been reported so far, and that's how I'm gonna call them. I'll delete the list. You probably want a replica, so that's why you can't sign up. John Palalic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29670	I just remind you, simply, there are MPs here who have been in the National Assembly for years. Just now, SVM representatives, here is Mr Pastor, all the time since 2008, here in the National Assembly, of course, and the DSS, have said that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not respected when it comes to the financing of the AP Vojvodina, means coalition partners both at the province level and at the republic's level then. Of course, not directly involved in the government, but they supported the Republic government. The Democratic Party of Serbia said the same thing. So I want to freshen up a situation that has been going on here for a very long time. Even the question was last minute – will the budgets be adopted. I don't think SVM representatives voted for some budgets. It's just, it's something that's been going on since 2007. I don't see why you're now suggesting I'm not telling the truth. There were constant discussions about it, and that's something I want to remind you of here. The Democratic Party of Serbia has been pointing to the problem together with other parties since 2008. I remind you of that, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29671	The system's overcrowded. It's full of leaves. The ones I've read don't sign up. I've written down and I'll respect that order. I'll read it again. The one I haven't read, sign in. There is Judita Popovic, Maja Gojkovic, Zoran Kasalović, Srdjan Sajn, Bojan Đurić, Dejan Mihajlov, Vuceta Toskovic and that is it. Now I'm gonna delete the list. Please, let's finish the replicas. Mr. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29672	I won't answer on this one again. I really don't have anything to add and take away from what I just said. For the first time last year, this government, truth in a slightly altered composition, the finance minister was now not current, but passed a Budget System Law that reliably reliably reduced 7%. Never before, Mr. Palalic and the MPs, did it happen. There have been disputes over some other issues, but not about the violation of the Constitution. It's only true, and that's all anyone who doesn't want to dissuade the truth will admit it. For the first time last year, even you, as I recall, said in your discussions that this provision is unconstitutional and that it is not 7% of those of the Constitution. Never before in the Law on the Budgetary System has such a thing been written and it was the first direct violation of the RS Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29673	Replica, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29674	I didn't think I'd get involved in this battle, but I think it's a bar thing to say one sentence. Until last year we had one problem, and since last year we have two problems. Until last year, we had a problem with the fact that since 2008, Article 184 of Article 4 has never been respected. Another problem arises after the situation is fueled by the adoption of the law on default in relation to which we have given in this Assembly an initiative for change and in relation to which we have initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court, so we wait for what will happen. That's what unfortunately is part of reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29675	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29676	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Pastor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP of course supports the amendments to the AP Vojvodina Assembly and, of course, we will vote for these amendments. How are things today regarding the relationship of the Republic government to the province of Vojvodina? It looks like this, there is a constitution that guarantees certain rights to the Vojvodina. Part of the Constitution relating to this is not respected. There's no law on the financing of the Vojvodina. There's no law, and there's nothing to disrespect. There's a working group that should be working on passing this Law on the financing of Vojvodina. However, the task force is doing nothing. I respect, Mr. Minister, that you said you were supporting the introduction into some legal frameworks of the financing of Vojvodina and that you would launch the work of that task force. But it's just some promises. What do those promises look like? In the following way -- since 2007, the Republic government, so the republican government owes the province of Vojvodina about billion euros certainly. This year, the province of Vojvodina will be denied some 32 billion dinars. So that's true. These are facts that directly affect the Vojvodina, so its existence and at all question its development. If this country has the ambition to be a serious state and we see it as a serious state, it should be seen in Denmark. In Denmark these days, the minister of justice resigned for saying one lie. One lie about visiting some hippie column. That was enough to resign. What's going on here? Four, five, six years of non-compliance with the Constitution. So, there is no funding of Vojvodina as foreseen by the Constitution, and absolutely no one is bothered by it, that today comes out with the the thesis that there is a big problem with the financing of the Vojvodina and we simply do not know what happened in the past, and something should change, and no one sees that responsibility, their contribution to this disrespect of the Constitution and to the destruction of the province of Vojvodina. So there is no amnesty for the previous government that has knowingly violated the Constitution, which has called into question the functioning of the province of Vojvodina. Of course we are for constitutional reform and of course we want to change this situation, that Vojvodina is coming back for the development of a hundred dinars per capita. It's, you'll allow, humiliating.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29677	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29678	Thank you. I welcome the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who came here to present amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group shares views and arguments, the position of the Government of the Republic, and that we cannot accept the amendments, especially after very easy explanations, not the proponents, but those who have explained why they would support or not. When we talk about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, of course it is the highest legal act in our country and that anyone exercising power has to respect and there is really nothing controversial about us, but as far as respect for one sentence in the Constitution is concerned, it simply insults the intelligence of every MP in this Parliament and in other parliaments of the world, because, either you respect the Constitution in general, or you change it and do something big to change. What is very important is that we begin to respect, and this sentence, all of us, and despite being in 2008, five years ago, we should go with the respect of the Constitution and respect Vojvodina in full, let's go over those five years of the work of those who led this country and take advantage of these six months that the Constitutional Court, and even in that explanation, the President of Parliament, Mr Pastor, wrote, that they simply threw it to you, so as to say these drownings on board, not to you, but to the institution that you represent here, the government of Vojvodina, the straw of salvation to try something common to do and to coordinate all the important acts in this country and in Vojvodina with the Constitution of Serbia. My colleague, Judith, set a good example for Denmark, only selective. So, someone who, in two years or a year's time, experiences such a legal debacle, that the Constitutional Court after several years of considering the initiative, whether the Statute and the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is constitutional or not, is debacled to him by two of the most important acts that the Assembly has declared unconstitutional in a large number of members, goes beyond that and then asks only for the resignation or responsibility of someone at a higher level of power, and their responsibility, their failure, is not seen by a representative of the government of Vojvodina, or the president, and does not see a parliament who has raised his hand in the previous assembly for such acts. So, if we're going to look up to Denmark, then we ask that resignations be made by those who have passed, proposed and passed such unconstitutional laws, which are a disaster for the consequences of the lives of the people of Vojvodina. As far as health care is concerned, it's said by someone here, very dramatic healthcare in Vojvodina, waiting, rows, etc. Yeah, I couldn't agree more, that's all Dr. Bukurov was warning about working at the Institute. She is known as the first and only man in Vojvodina's health who began to talk about the malversions that are happening at the AP Vojvodina Institute, she has experienced an unprecedented mobing, so we should do a little bit outside of some surface things to break up, what is really going on in Vojvodina's health, because by Article 183, as far as I know, the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, it is not disputed, is above health and over education. When we criticise something, we should look at all the failures and all the anomalies that are happening in Vojvodina to finally clarify what it is now, after the unconstitutional two acts, very important, what is, what is not in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, so that we know then and what is financed from the budget and what these 7% will go to. In that case, we want to participate in this task force and make order in this country, so we can make legal order in the acts of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29679	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29680	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Pastor, the SPS will support the government's position in Serbia and will not vote in favour of the amendment of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I would like to say that the SPS advocates a functional, economically viable autonomy of Vojvodina, which will contribute to the quality of life of all the citizens of Vojvodina, but of course, as autonomy in the Republic of Serbia, and to the improvement and quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, only such autonomy can be successfully developed and only such autonomy can create one atmosphere of dialogue and tolerance, to which, after more than a decade, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ivica Dacic, called upon us to adopt the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, in this sense, the question that Mr Pastor has asked here – what can we do to stop this situation, understanding as a kind of politicisation, every year when we adopt the budget of the Republic of Serbia, about 7% of the AP Vojvodina budget in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I see above all in a comprehensive, systematic and consistent solution, what will be the adoption of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and therefore this appeal is that there is one atmosphere of tolerance and dialogue to come to it. Perhaps this is one of the basic reasons for not understanding and such non-accession to this problem, that here, from the Constitution adopted in 2006, which was defined in Article 184 that the Vojvodina budget was at least 7% in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and according to the Constitutional Law, the deadline for the adoption of that law was 31 December 2008, and we did not reach that law today. The Socialist Party of Serbia is ready to participate in the process, to make its constructive contribution to this and indeed create one atmosphere of dialogue and tolerance in terms of developing and financing the AP Vojvodina, as well as developing all those competences belonging to the AP Vojvodina, in order to create preconditions and a framework to improve the quality of life of citizens in Vojvodina, as well as in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in this part of my address, and I am speaking to the chairman, within the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, I would open the issue of political dialogue in terms of the political system and whether this electoral system is just in the AP Vojvodina and whether it can lead to the proper distribution of government, or responsibility for the quality of that life. It seems to me that this way, which has also shown in previous elections that with 21% of the votes or values won in the AP Vojvodina, you have a party that has more than 50% of the authorities and responsibilities of the AP Vojvodina, an electoral system that needs to be reconsidered and what the dialogue should also be opened. But, Mr. Pastor, I really want to give you credit for your consistency and your principle. This is what you confirmed today in the debate when you spoke of two problems on your own and with your view that since 2008 the Constitution has not been respected. You, or your parliamentary group, have submitted amendments and have not even voted in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Whether we agree in some political views, and we disagree, the SPS and the SVM, but it is indeed a principled and consistent position. That is why I really cannot understand the political party and some members, above all DS, who are changing arguments from government to government, from whether they are in power or not. The financing of education and local self-government has always been seen as the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. It went through the AP Vojvodina budget, then to the end users. This was the case when the DS had the president of the state, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister now of the AP Vojvodina, and now suddenly it is not and it is not the responsibility of the AP Vojvodina, but the Republic of Serbia and the funds should not go through the AP Vojvodina budget, but should go directly to the users. I ask - how is it possible that 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, it was so, so the Democratic Party did not notice it, did not comment on it, voted for that budget and it was respect for the Constitution, and now we are calling for disrespect of the Constitution? You are consistent here, and the Democratic Party is certainly changing the argument and the question of credibility is -- how seriously can we discuss this issue? So if the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the same way, respecting the methodology, respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on at least 7% of the AP Vojvodina's budget in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and since 2003, in this way it has financed education and local self-government, and in 2006, when the Constitution adopted the Constitution, it has also taken account of these transfer funds of education and local self-government, in this way, it is not in accordance with the Constitution, and when I say once again, it had all the leverages of power, then it was in accordance with the Constitution. Another logical question is being asked. They are the biggest critics and the absolute majority currently in the AP Vojvodina and the logical question is – why has no AP Vojvodina financing law been passed so far? Was there a problem in Belgrade that he wanted to introduce himself, or was there a problem somewhere else? Do not say that there was will, intent and desire at the DS, which had both the president of the state and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina at the time, so that this would not be adopted. That's all I'm talking about, is asking a serious question of credibility that members of that party put any kind of regret on the adopted budget of the Republic of Serbia and 7% of the AP Vojvodina budget. Respecting these arguments, I absolutely believe that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is very realistic and that 7% of the AP Vojvodina budget is also defined in this sense realistically and in accordance with the positive regulations and the Constitution is planned. We will therefore support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29681	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. I'm sorry, Mr. Shane. Mr. Veselinović, he didn't mention you in the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29682	I've been counting since I decided to mention us, from then until the end of my speech six times we've been mentioned by the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs. Even the hard words that speak of us sound better than the truth about them. The truth about them testifies to everything bad that happened to Serbia in the previous period, not by chance, but because of their policy, not only to the citizens of Vojvodina, but to the citizens of all Serbia, and not only to the citizens of all Serbia, but also to the Serbs from the region, and to those in Dalmatia, Lica, Bani, Kordun, all because of their leader's policy, and today they give us lessons. You know why they're giving us lessons? Because they're not in the third chair. Because they didn't get part of the government in the AP. Now I've consulted here, and now I remember they crossed the census in Vojvodina by a little bit, by five percentage points, and they wanted to be in the province's power. If they were in that third chair, they would now listen calmly to what is being discussed here, as they listen and do nothing about what their coalition partners are doing at the state level and at various local levels. (President: Time.) ) They deal with politics, politics, chair keeping, and jobs don't matter to them. Time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29683	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29684	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is quite evidence that in the midst of a lack of argument you reach into the past and a story that absolutely has nothing to do with the topic of funding the AP Vojvodina. The Socialist Party of Serbia has recognised its mistakes in the past. We've put up with the political burden for it. We don't want to step forward with our heads upside down. We can't change the past. We want to affect the present and the future. It's a known definition and our SPS party president. The paper is also recognised in the government in which the DS dominated, and citizens said in the elections that which party, which leader held his post in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the result we have achieved in the elections. The question is whether the Democratic Party submitted a report on work and what the effects of working in the AP Vojvodina are, above all, the functioning of the Capital Investment Fund. For four years, you have not filed a report on the functioning of this fund. Mr. Veselinović, I don't know why you're talking about censorship. You have the results of your research every day, but the results of the local elections prove that you have a problem with the censorship. Let me ask you, did you cross the census in Kovin? What results have you had lately? So don't worry about the SPS. We will continue to work on the well-being and quality of the citizens of Vojvodina, but also on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we will argue on this subject, unlike you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29685	Mr. Pastor, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29686	In my opening address, I said you wouldn't want me to talk about who's guilty of what. Now a discussion has just developed about who is to blame, where the discussion has developed between those who were partners in the same government up to a year and a half ago. Practically in 2004 until 2012, the responsibility for not being able to do what we are talking about today lies with both both at the end and end of the SVM, because it failed to impose this problem. As for those sentences I said about respecting the constitutional principle. I must say, at first, in the structure of the duchy budget, that money that just ran for local self-government and education was about 30%, so that the amount today, ladies and gentlemen, would reach a level of 69%. If something doesn't happen, the duchy budget will become a mere passing water heater in a few months. I think that's one of the basic problems that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29687	Replica, Janko Veselinović. We are finishing up a replica on a topic that has been launched around interparty responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29688	I really don't think there should have been any discussion outside the subject, but we didn't open it. We never took care of whether the DS would have a policy benefit. And we never suffered from having 70% or 80% of what the SPS used to have, and the ground was never on the worse bottom, with cans of gas sold along the way, on the shelves there was no oil, sugar, etc. And there's really no need to repeat this, we all know, we all remember that time. The Democratic Party is interested in the fate of Serbian citizens, the way towards the EU, not for the sake of the road, not for raising political ratings, but for us to open jobs instead of closing jobs now. Just since the previous term, let's say 750 new jobs have been opened in Odzac. That's what citizens recognize. That's why citizens in Vojvodina vote for DS, not the SPS. But it's not just about having power, it's about doing something in that term. I am sure that the DS will do more for Serbian citizens now in opposition, because through amendments to this budget we have shown this, so we have not allowed the university to be deprived of autonomy and that co-workers, teachers, professors, extraordinary teachers are elected as parking attendants. That's what DS is fighting for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29689	Mr. Kasalovic. Here you go. I think it's time to bring the end of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29690	I wanted to finish, but apparently the previous speaker is more important because there is no argument for the present and the future. But I would like to ask some key questions about the results of DS policy. I also agree with Mr. Pastor to determine responsibility, but the DS can only try to show that the same kind of responsibility was among the parties in the previous government. It is indeed clear to everyone outside and to the sparrows on the border, the one who had the president of the state, the Prime Minister, the president of the AP Vojvodina is solely responsible. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. But the effects of such work, and I had the opportunity to talk about it in the last debate when it was, the average earnings in Novi Sad in December 2012, so, when DS effects are still visible, it was about 60,000 dinars. Just next to Novi Sad are the Sremski Karlovci who had about 30,000 dinars. In the same way, in the municipality of Nova Crnja, earnings per capita and municipalities were paid two and a half times less than both the Vojvodina and the republican average. The same is the case, and this is data from October in the central Banat district of Novi Becej municipality, 31.505 dinars, 40% less than the average in the Republic of Serbia, which was 43.615 dinars. Are these the results that deserve attention? It's the present, and we want to talk about the future of what autonomy we want. I said we want a functional, economic, cost-effective autonomy that will take care of the citizens of Vojvodina, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These results are not truly commendable, and therefore the debate of the present and the future is avoided.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29691	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29692	Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely difficult to talk about this amendment when you have as representatives of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina Man who is president of the SVM, someone who has been consistent in insisting on this issue. When you have a man who is an exceptional finance expert with his co-worker who has recently assumed responsibility in the government of the AP Vojvodina for finance. Then you are in a position not to address those people who have really been responsible for the situation for many years and for relations between the Serbian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the AP Vojvodina for this situation so that we can adequately plead on this amendment and in full capacity. That is why I am obliged, primarily chaired to say that we must look at this amendment and the decision we make in a broader political, legal framework in which we are today. Then on the basis that we really have a basis in our decision why in one way or another we plead to him. What I'm trying to say is that SVM was very consistent when he ran that policy. However, it also shows relations in Vojvodina that the moment they had real influence, when the league had real influence, and then we had one situation. However, when that influence could no longer be realistic, it was controversial because someone could lead politics the way he wanted it to be, then the impact of some other ideas was erased. I'll tell you what this is about, and that has direct consequences on both the budget and this amendment that we're talking about. While Mr Pastor was in one conversation when he worked on the implementation of the budget and the Development Fund, he made it clear that he was ready to set certain funds for the Roma integration process and to meet the even development of all members of the national communities. It didn't suit anyone, so then it reduced it to a policy to tell 40 companies with 1800 euros that we are encouraging the development of Roma integration precisely from these funds in this section that are being spoken of. Also, when we talk about the influence of Mr Chanka, in talking to him when we talked, about making funds, and that next to the Croatian language which is like a new language, not as acquired rights, introduced as an official language in the AP Vojvodina when we talk about the process of change where he had a real desire and a real sincere intention to be one of the official languages. Then he couldn't even realize it because most people didn't want to do it, and he didn't want to form an institution for Roma culture. We today have institutions for culture of all national communities, some that are less numerous than the Roma, but at this point we do not. What does that indicate and why does it have a direct connection to this amendment? It suggests that we are in a legal-political environment in which we must clearly define certain things. We must finally pass this law, and I expect both the finance minister and the regional authorities who are here today to move as quickly as possible to start the talks on this topic on the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, that we regularly have information on the direction in which these negotiations are going and that in 2014 we really do not welcome without at least one serious bill which, in a very clear way, demystifies all these dilemmas that we are talking about today. Unfortunately, we're in an unconstitutional situation. Because if, according to the Vojvodina Act, certain things are not constitutional, it is also questionable whether the budget of those 7% should participate in the decision to use it by all the citizens of Vojvodina, as it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that in all the authorities, the republican authorities, the regional authorities, representatives of the national communities must be represented. Unfortunately, the electoral system in Vojvodina is such that today we do not have a representative of the Roma National Community, unfortunately, we do not have in any other bodies representatives of the Roma National Community and I say that all of this goes in favour of that we finally have to settle the state, we finally have to define some key issues, we need to speak very honestly and openly about it and when we do, then we can very importantly and we can give answers to certain issues like these. In that direction, I am experiencing this debate as an initiative not only today, but that, when the debate and other laws are held, they are representatives of the AP Vojvodina here, or the Assembly. It is not only the budget where there is to be someone from the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, but also when human, minority rights are exercised, perhaps when we have brought a declaration of relations to members of the Hungarian National Community in Vojvodina, perhaps even then we should have a representative of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. So let's change that. Let's make the habits that lasted 10 years for the AP Vojvodina to be exclusively through its political representatives, party representatives, present here in the Assembly, truly present as an institution, to be our shift and to help all MPs so that we can make decisions that are in line with the interests of the Vojvodina. I am also saying this as a representative of the Roma National Community and as someone who lives in Vojvodina, who lives in Kovacica and I expect that in 2014 we will really create a different legal-political environment and put an end to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29693	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29694	Vice President, Minister, Mr Pastor, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, of course this is not just about this amendment. We have these scenes every year and in fact the debate on this amendment turns into a debate on the key issue in this country, which is – how it is organised, can it endure and operate on those principles by which it was organised by the catastrophic 2006 Constitution? In the meantime, the situation is further complicated by a series of decisions, in this case by the Constitutional Court's decision, and that is why this today looks like this. And of course, you should say that. Not all political parties have acted in the past in the same way. There are political parties that were against such a constitution in 2006, knowing, among other things, that not even such a misdefined constitutional provision, an attempt to bring autonomy down and explain itself and to be permanently defined through some vaguely set budget percentage, that this would turn into a disaster. So there were parties that were against this constitution – LDP, LSVM, SVM and were very consistent afterwards and when the Constitution was adopted, in the struggle at least for those 7%. There's a DSS on the second half of the political scene that defends this constitution that he believes is good. There are other political parties that have acted on the current circumstances. But it's all less important today. We, however, cannot resolve the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy, and subsequently the whole of Serbia's organisations, in a debate on the budget, and in particular the debate on one amendment. What the LDP is proposing is to give up ambition to profit politically from this on either side and to discuss changing the constitution. It's the only way we don't have this kind of debate in the coming years, which is 7% and 7% of what. We've been having this pointless discussion for six years. It describes us as a society unable to organize and calculate what 7% is. And, in fact, behind this is the insincere political ambition of 2006 that Kosovo's defeat is covered by the adoption of a constitution whose victims are eventually Vojvodina and all other parts of Serbia where the situation is so preserved that today, seven years later, we try to live by wearing a coat by half, and by half a suit. And that's what we're trying to do, in a situation where we're faced with an incredible economic and political crisis, to survive. Once again the call of the Liberal Democratic Party – we are in favour of this amendment. At the moment, such a constitutional guarantee must be respected, but Serbia, Vojvodina, cannot all citizens of Serbia live in such an interregnum for too long. So it's time for some kind of deal. It's time to talk about the Constitution, but not the way it was discussed in 2006. The constitution didn't pass in Vojvodina, but it does. The political parties that backed the constitution today have, some of them different positions, some of the same positions, but time has changed. And it's pointless that we try to score on 2006 topics. It was clear after seven years that we who were against this constitution were right. We do not want to use it today as a score platform, but as a platform to discuss it in these positions, while respecting those who have different views on the position of Vojvodina, the organisation of Serbia. First we have to deal with what the state is doing and what public authorities are. Then we need to agree on how they are divided between central authorities, autonomy or autonomy, because it is a legitimate issue for other autonomys and local self-government to be discussed in Serbia. Those powers must be much less than they are now. When we deploy them to each other, then it will be more or less a technical question that through the laws on the budgetary system and budgets we will deploy these funds and that money and we will manage them. What's so complicated about that? Those who are not ready in politics to be honest, the issue of Vojvodina and any other emotional issue are using as some kind of mask for inability to solve those issues that are crucial. So, once again, the LDP appeal to adopt this amendment, but immediately after that, to start serious talks on what is the future territorial, political, economic, social, cultural, educational, whatever kind of organisation of Serbia, Vojvodina is in it and all the local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29695	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29696	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Mr Pastor, this question, the 7% question can be seen and interpreted in the way we have tried to do here today as legal-political or political. Simply, if we are talking about a legal issue, the DSS has always been extremely consistent and responsible and fully respected by the Constitution, unlike those who have not done so, who have adopted the Statute of Vojvodina which is not in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina which is also not in accordance with the Constitution, which, fortunately the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina, has put the Constitutional Court out of force and where it will have to comply with the Statute and what is the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and with one constitution that has passed and received the highest marks as one of the most democratic and best constitution that has been brought into Europe in decades, is the Constitution which guarantees Europe the highest degree and minority rights and which protects those minority rights in the best possible way. What I'm trying to say here, the political debate that has taken place here, is that we need the Constitution to coordinate with the political needs for the preservation of power and the concealment of thieving and that we need to change the Constitution to hide someone's plans and someone's policies, and someone's problems, is total nonsense. Why didn't we, when we talked about “the Vojvodine Development Bank, ” call upon the Constitution? Three hundred million have left the Republic of Serbia's budget. About "Metalsbanci" about all other things? Then the Republic was absolutely good and then there was no other problem. We're talking about the need to bring the real state into line with the law, what we've been doing as DSS, but obviously those with whom you're now in government and sitting in government don't think so. Then they're being treated pointlessly here, we've been listening for almost an hour, a political debate. The Democratic Party, which has now suddenly realised that the Constitution should be respected, and up until a year ago thought they should not stick to the Constitution as a drunken vessel, to those others who have now been pretending not to have been in power with the DS and signed the Agreement, the Declaration of Reconciliation, and flocked together with them to the Socialist International. Two thousand eight years ago, the DSS forgave us for beating us, for bringing us into wars, for allowing all this to happen to Serbia. That's what the DS forgave. They must have forgiven them something else, and that's what we experienced in 2008. What we all need to know here is that the Constitution must be respected always and in every place. The stories, if the constitution in Vojvodina had not passed, passed everywhere, 50% of Serbian citizens voted in favour of the Constitution. Not 50% of those who went to the referendum, 51% of Serbian citizens voted for this constitution, the way it is, by registered voters. No act anywhere in Europe has been given that legitimacy anywhere in the world, this legitimacy that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has. So when I listen to all these disputes from political positions, to cover up the real political intentions that go in the direction of secession or something else, they're nothing more to me than trying to manipulate the facts. The fact is that since 2008, the government has not respected the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the financing of Vojvodina, that it was only respected by the DSS government, and that is what the fact is. We need to see here how we can find a way out of this situation. Let's talk about it, not hide all the other problems behind the problem of changing the Constitution. Why, Mr. Pastor, don't you say that two of the five most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia are from Vojvodina? If you're talking about Vojvodina, which until recently was a locomotive, why does this locomotive have two cars that are the worst in Serbia? Why don't we talk about it here, if we're already talking about the situation in Vojvodina? That's the main problem. Where did the money go? Where did all this money go from Vojvodina? How did the duchy government, in which you participated, allow two of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia to be from Vojvodina? That's the theme, if we're going to open up the issue of the Vojvodina this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29697	The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29698	In my opening address, in two minutes, I said everything I can't talk about, because the time frame doesn't allow it. On the other hand, because we've talked about these things a million times. These are the things most often solved with a sentence, and elsewhere it is, and elsewhere it is difficult, and elsewhere it is problematic. For that reason, I don't think this discussion of such details is worth wasting its strength. In relation to this, which I think is significant, which you spoke of, as regards the Statute, the Law on Jurisdiction, the Constitutional Court Decision and so on, I must say that, by reading the reports of the President of the Constitutional Court for 2012, the following can be concluded – that the Constitutional Court has declared, or established the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions, a total of 25 laws passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is the Law on Lawyership, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on Taxes on Property, the Law on VOA and VBA, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and Members of their Families, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, the Law on the Burial and Cemeteries, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Law on the Rights of the Government, the Law establishing the Jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, this Assembly, this Assembly, the Law on the Rates of Interests, the Law on Excessssss, the Law on Strikes, the Law on Health Insurance, the Tax on Income of Citizens, the Law on Income of Citizens, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Obligious Insurance and Transport, the Law on the Court, the Law of Judges, the Law on Changes and the Law on the Constitutional Court. What does that mean? Does this mean that this congregation should consider disbanding and calling an emergency election? (President: Time.) ) If I add to this the circumstance that the same Constitutional Court has disputed the constitutionality of seven government decisions, then I think it is quite clear that it is an institution, the Constitutional Court, as a mechanism of weights and counterweights, which exercise control and that control must be carried out afterwards. That's why I don't see any problem. We'll get the Constitutional Court's ruling and we'll act on it, as we've done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29699	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29700	First, I must replicate, of course, by repeating the absolute support of the amendments of the Regional Assembly and the fact that we are entering a reenactment of the ugly events of the past, when the Republic Assembly and the Government absolutely ignore the views of the province administration and show once again that they don't care what happens tomorrow and how we solve this acute problem that exists in this country. Can it only be solved if one ruling majority takes absolutely everything from the local community to the president in this country? This is the greatest lack of our constitutional and political and economic system. I have to replicate, because something from the so-called so-called. our reconciliation with the SPS. We have formed a coalition with the SPS in 2008 so that xenophobic forces against Serbia's EU integration will not come. Before we forgave them, Mr. Michael, you forgave them in 2006, so when we saw how well forgiveness works from you, we applied it, though in writing. I think we can learn lessons, and we and you, out of that alliance. We pulled ours out. After all, we watch every day this incompetent government, which does not know what it is doing, and we watch Mr Dacic, who in 2008, gave up Milosevic, and now through politics and rhetoric, he returns to the political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29701	The word of the People's Messenger is Jovan Palalic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29702	Mr. Chairman, you've injured Article 106. You had to react to such an insult, which was said by the head of the DS parliamentary group to the DSS parliamentary group, that it was xenophobic. You know, the DSS consistently, following Kosovo's declaration of independence, was against European integration. Political reasons are why we are against European integration. If this is xenophobia, and it is said from the mouth of those who have declared that Europe has no alternative, that Europe is the only time, the very Europe that has participated in breaking the state, which has contributed to the poverty of the citizens, although they have no other argument against our policy, but that they are insulting us, please pay attention and take all kinds of insults that are heard here in the National Assembly, because they cannot complain about the insults heard in their account, and then insult other parliamentary groups in the same way. The Democratic Party of Serbia is against European integration and will fight against those who declare the policy of protecting the territorial integrity of their own state, fighting for national interests xenophobia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29703	As always, I have asked all the MPs, and this time I appeal that the discussion be dignified, and in that sense I ask you to behave accordingly. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29704	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29705	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29706	The Honorable Chairman, so the Socialist Party of Serbia has made all alliances and coalitions exclusively with the desire to work for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and with the best intention of doing the work in the government in 2006 with minority support from the government of Vojislav Kostunica, also in 2008, when the dominant role was played by the Democratic Party. Mr. Stefanovic, if you're taking some lessons, the only lesson is that if and when you have a chance to do it again after a long time...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29707	Mr. Kasalovic, you have applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29708	No, I'm an authorised representative. He also mentioned Prime Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29709	You can't, please. I gave you my word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29710	Article 106, violation of dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29711	Then explain. Do not replicate but explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29712	Dear President, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has been mentioned in a negative context and I would like to say that indeed Prime Minister Dacic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are not part of the problem, but is part of a solution to the problem, and this government is working to solve all of the problems that the previous Government, and particularly the Government of the Democratic Party, when it is dominantly deciding with the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the president of the AP Vojvodina, did not do, and these are European integrations, that is the fight against crime and corruption, and that is what will make all citizens better. So, I would once again say that if you draw any kind of experience or lessons, you learn to work in the future government for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you cannot take care of the Democratic Party's ratings. Besides, that's what the results showed. Everyone got what they deserved from the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29713	I just have to find out that I didn't understand what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was, but you can plead yes in the day of the vote. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29714	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29715	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29716	Article 27 and 106. Why? So it's impossible to use the Institute's infringement of the Rules of Procedure. The use for replication and used, unfortunately for my own sake, is indeed in one form that I have not absolutely used, or anyone from the Democratic Party. I don't know why you recognized yourself in that. So I have to make that clear. We caused unnecessary controversy just because someone understood that the party within that qualification that I gave, I would be precise now, thinking first of all about the former bearers, and not about the others. If you can and want to accept it as an apology, okay, but I really didn't want to qualify for a certain political group and in that sense I think it's important if I make it clear that we don't have this kind of need to show this kind of lack of understanding in a situation where those who destroy Serbia today rub their hands. Thank you. G
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29717	I can understand that you didn't intend to, but people recognized each other for the previous speech by Dean Michael. That's why I realized that's how they realized it. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29718	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Pastor, you will understand that some provision declared by the Constitutional Court by the unconstitutional Law on Lawyerry is not the same as declaring a provision of importance and weight to the Statute of Vojvodina. You know, the Statute of Vojvodina is an act that regulates the AP Vojvodina and is not the same as another provision in another law, so that this attempt to relativise and reject responsibilities from those who have brought that Statute, which is next to the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the Democratic Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the League, who have almost defended it, is simply part of the responsibility that you must bear, as all and those who propose some law that is unconstitutional, but is not the same responsibility and is not the same weight. Simply, the responsibility for the situation in Vojvodina is borne by you, as are the Democratic Party and those of others, and that two of the five most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia are the Vojvodina municipalities, and you are saying that Vojvodina is a locomotive of development. So, how did these municipalities develop? How's that locomotive going? What's he pulling behind him? That's what we're talking about here and that's the topic. Mr Stefanovic, in 2000, after Friday's changes, we did not sign a reconciliation agreement with the Socialist Party of Serbia, you did. In 2000, we just felt that Serbia didn't need new divisions, that Serbia didn't need blood on the streets, that it didn't need lynching people on the streets where some of the previous parties were headed, because you weren't in the Democratic Party at the time, those who were planning to do it. We felt that Serbia should move forward, although in 2000, if the people fought for democratic change, then it was necessary to build a democratic state on democratic fluids, on human rights, on political freedoms, not on the streets. That's the difference between you and me. (President: Time.) ) We have accepted that we are building a society where everyone will be able to freely express their opinion, but we have not signed an agreement on reconciliation with the Socialist Party of Serbia, to forgive them all what they did from 1988 to 2000, and sanctions, and wars and all the wrong steps they took and whose consequences... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29719	Time. I ask the People's MPs, one of the reasons for giving the warning is also direct address to the MPs. Look at article 109. Please, don't deliberately challenge the controversy here now. I understand your need, but that way we won't contribute to anything, we'll only complicate the problem. Mr. Pastor, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29720	I must say again that by this moment, we have not had the opportunity to read the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision. Maybe some of them are in positional advantage, so they had that opportunity in the early stages of that whole process. At this point, we haven't had a chance yet. That's one thing. Second thing, now I don't really know what's going on here? According to my knowledge, the Democratic Party of Serbia has so far seen the Statute as a sublegal act. What does that mean? That a sublegal act is worth more in respect of the consequences than the 25 laws I listed in the report from the President of the Constitutional Court? This is a rhetorical question, first of all. That's what we can waste our time on. The bottom line is that we will surely respect what it says in the Constitutional Court's decision. That's what we're getting ready for, but I also have to say it's a mutual obligation. The Law of Jurisdiction was passed by this Assembly. The financing law should be passed by this assembly. The Statute should bring the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and give it consent to this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29721	Since it was a replica of Dejan Mihajlov, I can give you my word, but I cannot give Mr Palalic the right to a replica. Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29722	Mr Pastor, we all know that the importance of the Statute is greater, of course than some other law by its weight and by what this statute and the law, which have been declared unconstitutional, or their provisions declared unconstitutional, by the effect it could have on the stability of the state, by its territorial integrity above all. That is why I am talking about that the law and the Statute are much more important because with the opening of the Brussels office, with the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and with all the other things they have arranged, it was something that was an attempt to create parallel institutions in relation to the institutions that exist in the Republic of Serbia and a way to take over some forms of statehood that exist in Vojvodina to be parallel to those that exist in Serbia. It is something that is for the DSS and then and now and always will be unacceptable, as the AP Vojvodina gained its autonomy in 1848, as the Serbian Duchy of Austro-Hungarian. It was created as Serbia's autonomy within Austria, not to make the same people autonomy within the same country. It is a fundamental difference why we think that autonomy as such should not be in that form, but should be in the form of how it was defined by the 2006 Constitution, which the DSS has all-involved in its creation and made a key contribution to its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29723	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29724	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Pastor, with his men, I begin to tell you that the SNS with its coalition will not accept this amendment for several reasons. I would not agree with Mr. Pastor that we should not look for the culprit for what was before this, because this amendment would not have occurred, if we had sought the culprit and found them, so this "Vojvodine Development Bank" and the Capital Investment Fund would have been a little more rational and the costs would have been reduced to possible measures. So today we would not argue about all this if it were rationally in the province, and I have lived since 1957 in Vojvodina, and there is an impression of how persistent you are to accept this amendment and to bring the Constitution into line with the Law and the Statute of Vojvodina, which is unacceptable to ever lower statutes and laws harmonize with the Constitution. The impression is coming, I'm an old Novosadian, I say since 1957, I know when the 1974 Constitution is, I have the impression that the New Sad DS is not from all of Vojvodina, that it desires this constitution and that it goes towards bringing it in some way, which is impossible in this time of 1974, to Vojvodina to be a republic. That won't go with either of you. You have seen here MPs from the Vojvodina DS accept this amendment, have you seen anyone from central Serbia or Belgrade say anything about an amendment that you have proposed as a province? No, I don't. So, only the DS from Novi Sad, I must say, headed by Mr. Pajtic, Mr. Petrovic, and with some others insist on changing the constitution. Take a little care of a cookie called – the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it is as large as it, cannot be increased, can be reduced. You'll get as much as you can get. All citizens, you've seen what the proposal is, over 60,000 dinars have to pay their taxes, to take away 10%. So we all have to solidify these reforms in some way to make us feel better. I don't get it. You're a lawyer, but you have an economist by your side, to insist on it. You're looking for reserves in our province, it's a wasteful job if you don't do something like that. You know exactly how much the Development Bank has done and what it has done, what the Capital Investment Fund has done, how you've been giving out of that Money Fund, what's been going on with that money, where's that money gone? Please be solid with this country, because you, I have the impression, are now attacking as if you're a province in the sense of a state in the country. That's how you see it when you talk about the amendment and at all about the 7%. Where to give 7% when not even your own party in the previous five years has not given those 7%, not because she didn't want to, because it was because she couldn't. Because the appetites of the province of Vojvodina were great to preserve its capital that regularly comes, so that it could do as she thought it was good, and you can see how well it was in the Development Bank, as it was in the Fund. Please be parliamentary, understand that the SNS wants to make cuts – economic, political and any other, help the SNS, that coalition, and then you will participate in that reform of Serbia's society. Don't be so hard on that of yours – we're honest, we mean it, we mean this. It's not right. We are the same people who live in one territory. You want the AP Vojvodina to be something extra from the rest of Serbia. That's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29725	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29726	The chairman, if you were to take care of the subject, there wouldn't be this many replicas today. The previous speaker spoke of the long-known SRS thesis today called SNS, which had the thesis to abolish the AP Vojvodina, to abolish any autonomy and that was their policy back then. Now it's reportedly not, but again we see that it is, because how do we understand this discussion, other than the desire for autonomy and autonomy given in the Constitution to be thrown out in some way, into something that someone is looking for and being evaluated for some political groups, above all for the DS that she was looking for Vojvodina as a republic, that she was looking for a state in the state. It was neither, nor will it be true. The Democratic Party has always advocated decentralisation, in general and respect for autonomy, the AP Vojvodina, for the respect of its specificity and the fact that it has an ethnic charred population, that there are many people who have come from both sides and from various parts of Serbian origin, that it has a lot of specificity and that it must not be denied the fundamental right of constitutionally defined competences to finance. The Serbian Progressive Party is in favour of that right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29727	I ask the People's MPs to discuss the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and it's all out of the question. I know it's an interesting question, but you're still narrowing down that space and discussing the amendment more. The word is Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29728	Mr. Vice President, unfortunately, I'm going to have to step away from you for having to react to what's been said. With all due respect to Mr Toskovic, I must tell you that I am not particularly upset about this if we seem to be under attack. Namely, it's our job. On the other hand, I have to tell you that in no way do I experience the appearance of this esteemed home and the explanation of the amendments to the assembly as some kind of a racketeering attempt. If that's how it's going, then I don't think we're writing well. As for your allegations regarding the Development Bank and the Capital Investment Fund, I have to tell you it's a pretty peeled bone. Over the past year and a half, we've heard a million comments, announcements about what happened at the Development Bank, what happened at the Capital Investment Fund. There was time to make all the checks, if I know a lot of checks and they've been done. To this day I don't know what the outcome is, except that nothing was found, because if it had been found, it would have probably been heard, and since it wasn't heard, I don't think it's correct to operate on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29729	Mr. Toskovic. You've caused a replica, but don't call people back.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29730	Not Mr. Pastor, but the previous speaker from the DS. He saw from my statement that I wasn't against the AP Vojvodina. Far from it, and I'm not going back to those before and when I was, I was the same for the AP Vojvodina and that the SNS was for the AP Vojvodina, but in accordance with the Constitution. In accordance with the Constitution, not to change the Constitution because of some appetites of the province of Vojvodina. So, both the SNS and I personally are for the AP Vojvodina, as the Constitution has agreed, and now that the Constitutional Court has disputed 40 points from the Statute, we'll see what happens. So I was misread by the gentleman before, that I am against the province of Vojvodina. No, I've never been, not today, but not to be a dilemma, not for any greater authority of the province of Vojvodina, because it goes towards the independence of the province. That's what sparrows know. We can have cute stories to tell, but I know that, and that's why I said that since 1957 I've lived in Novi Sad, I've been following the work of the province of Vojvodina and the parties leading the province.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29731	Just to be clear, please. I don't have the text of the amendment in front of me. I don't have it, but one thing I'm trying to say is that the issue of Vojvodina's status, what I heard from Mr. Pastor's explanation, whether it's a constitutional statute, is not, I really don't see the reason he's connected to the amendment they're looking for. Whether he is justified or not, it will be decided by the Assembly. Please really move on to the agenda and let's talk about the amendment. Now let's leave the Statute and the Constitution and the laws. It is not a sure explanation why this amendment is not accepted. In that sense, I appeal to all the MPs to act like one. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I suggest you give me a heads-up immediately. I've been here patiently listening to various deviations for almost two hours. No one's even been warned. When it came to me, though I applied for the first few times and did not come to my turn when it came to me – and now, according to the amendment. No problem. I will try to explain why I will not vote for this amendment. No matter what I live in Vojvodina, no matter what my NSS party was the first party to put Vojvodina's autonomy into its programme in 1990. My party didn't go after the Vukovar either, didn't go after the roasted ox. She stuck to the fact that Vojvodina, because of its specificities, national, geographical, economic, etc., deserves to be treated for these specificities by a single overall autonomy rather than by the autonomy of national minorities. All I need for Vojvodina, I am ready to vote for it, but I fear that in this amendment, where, chairman, mostly requires the division of excise income, the taxed profits of the company, the income of the citizens in percentages, and that the 7% of the RS budget is respected, which is agreed at the time when the Constitution was adopted in 2006. That's pretty much what this amendment is about. With both hands, I would support what the AP Vojvodina is looking for. I wish it were today, and it's not possible, given the Statute and the law of the AP Vojvodina, that the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina is here and that we are discussing it with him. I'm asking the amendment promoter to understand it that way. This isn't about, in my opinion, the rights of the AP Vojvodina. This is about the rights of the government or the work of the government of Vojvodina who is trying to present it in a certain way in the way that it used to be. The way the party was arranged doesn't give them the right to try to regulate the state in such a way. They are about to ask for 7% of Serbia's budget expenditure rather than revenue. That's how I understood it, and if I'm wrong, you correct me. Now that's the problem. If, and Predrag Markovic, who has not been with us since recently, testified here that the first constitution agreed to be 7% of the income. Since that year's budget revenues were higher than expenditure, and there is even a written clue to the agreement, then the same government, or the same political force that makes up the government in Vojvodina, has now requested that it be 7% of the income, but they now remembered that expenditures are higher than the revenues to now take 7% of the expenditure. I have no problem voting for it, but since this is not about the same level of government, I ask that 0.3% of the Vojvodina budget belongs to the New Carlovci MZ, to agree on that as well. To distribute those 7% to citizens and not just to the government of Vojvodina. If the Republic and the province are the same levels of government we can agree on and then why not negotiate between Novi Sad and the New Carlovci MZ. That would be fair. We haven't had any use for those 7%. No white dinar was invested there. I can rightly ask – where has 7% gone which have been allocated since 2006 or 2007 with full law because it is not the same level of government between MZ and the province? I agree with that, but I disagree that this is not about the same level of government between the province and the state. I cannot support this amendment because if I were to support it, I would support giving 7% of the interest the state will pay on loans and that is expenditure. Mr. Dinkic can explain it best. That's 114 billion. If we were to adopt this amendment, we would have to pay 7% of the interest on the debt. Secondly, 107 billion goes to social protection in expenditures. So we're going to give 7% of the social security expenditure if we adopt this amendment. Furthermore, the PIO stands out 280 billion. If we adopt to give out of expenditure l7%, then we have to give full 7% and to this 280 billion. That is why it is impossible for me to give 7% of the expenditure and I think that what was agreed in 2007 is fairer, that the revenues made in the territory of the entire Republic 7% are allocated to Vojvodina, that it is fair and fair. The rest of the matter, on the Law of Jurisdiction, I would not discuss the Statute, because I think it is illusory to discuss something that is a decision of the Constitutional Court which must be respected and cannot be opened, nor do I want to open it, but I just want to say that this decision is not for comment, but for respect. In the end, I want to say that it seems that this is not about the rights of the Vojvodina, but about the rights of a party that makes up the capital of the government of Vojvodina, and I agree that it is not a good thing that Vojvodina is no longer on the Pannonian Sea, but since this party has run Vojvodina, as the main party, Vojvodina is not at sea, but it is sinking and sinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29733	Thank you. There's a lot of MPs waiting to take a word for it. I will read the order: Djordje Stojsic, Suzana Grubjesic, Sinisa Lazic, and Milorad Mijatovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29734	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Pastor, the representatives of the government of Vojvodina, with the attention of listening to this discussion that is extremely important to us, given that we, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, consider this to be a matter of policy rather than an accounting issue. Every year you come, in fact you don't come every year, this is the second time, before governments didn't have that much understanding, but I think there's disunity on many issues in this House, but when it comes to Vojvodina, there's unity absolutely, in the sense that Vojvodina doesn't need to get what it owns under the Constitution. They all advocate respect for the Constitution, but when an initiative to respect that same constitution that wasn't voted by Vojvodina, although it was two days and night, now we who were against this Constitution, you know very well about it and fellow LDP colleagues, we now insist that this same constitution is respected and that the funds be transferred for what Vojvodina has jurisdiction, not to make farces from year to year and transfer funds for competencies that the Vojvodina has no, high schooling, local self-government, etc. We all know that the Dukean budget is a flow boiler, three weeks for capital investments I don't even want to mention. Last year we had this Podokin tunnel, which promised to be built in about a year, so we see that only this year we have 200 million dinars scheduled for project documentation in the expenditures of the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which has nothing to do with highways and in 2015 another 50 million, means the documentation will not be completed for the next five or six years. Last year, the tunnel was calculated as – there, it is capital expenditure on the territory of the province of Vojvodina. This year the situation is even weirder, so all the capital expenditure on the territory of the province is accounted for, like, this is some kind of investment and it counts in those three weeks. It's important to put all of this in context. The constitution, when it was passed, was laid down by this famous 7% provision, and I always wondered -- why 7%, who came to 7%, by which mathematics someone calculated that it should be 7%? There was a platform, as I recall, of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, or the Government of Vojvodina, that Vojvodina must have judicial, executive, legislative power, original income, property. It changed overnight, so there was this 7%. I don't know why 7%, maybe it's some kind of, uh, lyrical and epic poems have "seven mountains, seven mountains," or not to be eight for some other reason, like seven. I don't know why seven, but I'd really like someone who was involved in writing that constitution to hear why 7%? The relationship to Vojvodina doesn't change. The question is whether you as representatives of the citizens of Vojvodina should participate in this farce every year, given that, regardless of what is proposed here, the answer is always the same. You well suggest that, as far as I can see, it will be rejected by the ruling majority and what else? If we're going to go on temporary funding in Vojvodina and if we're going to have a budget then, that's a big question. This relationship didn't change, during Milosevic, it was clear to us why he had to force his autonomy to finance all these wars and everything he did in the 1990s, but after 2000, I think there was room for some things to be very practical, but in practice it didn't happen. In the privatisation, in the end, PIC "Becay" was sold, PKB was not sold, DDOR was sold, Dunav Insurance was not sold, Jugomedia was sold and Galenika was not sold. I won't even talk about it. Now here's a sheik who's very interested in the land of Vojvodina. In the end, we have to finance different fallen giants, and the problem is only one – electricity, gas, etc. 90% in Vojvodina, in other parts of Serbia, is not. Then we come to this and why this "Srbigas" is in losses, etc. We all know all that and every year the same story. Vojvodina is the last federal unit whose status has not been resolved. It all started in Vojvodina. I think that in the direction of our European perspective, this issue will have to be settled, finally done. Since 1988, it's been 25 years and, of all our stories that citizens listen to every year, we have a situation in Vojvodina that 25% unemployment, that the average tractor is 25-30 years old, that in Irig, when you go to Novi Sad, people's helmets fly into the courtyards, trains move at 50 kilometers an hour, like 200 years ago, and that's Vojvodina today. The Danube-Tisa-Dunav Channel, which was the best channel network in Europe 200 years ago, is now out of use at all. Don't let me count on it. In any case, 25 years have passed since the famous yogurt revolution, and we are telling the same stories again, without the idea of solving this issue properly once. Now we will have a law on funding, hopefully, the minister has promised us here in the Assembly that the working group will finally form, meet and that the Law on the financing of Vojvodina will be won, so we won't have to endure amendments that refuse each year. But this issue will not be resolved permanently until the issue of Vojvodina is resolved as a constitutional category. We, as a party, advocate to change the Constitution and I think the Constitution must change for many other reasons. Vojvodina is one of those reasons. I think there are people in Brussels who know what decentralisation is and what local self-government is, what is the province. There are other parties that think neither local self-government nor the province should exist. Everything should be part of the republican government, public spending being 90% of GDP, and that's one way of state regulation that I'm sure existed in the Middle Ages and I don't mind that they have the right to represent that model. Local self-government must be financed in a way that is regulated by law, not by transfering some municipalities more, some less, depending on who is in the local government. The same goes for the province. The current 7% is a product of political bargaining, gave up the Executive Council platform, we did not participate, it is not a topic here now, but 7% turned out to be unrespectable at all and no government in Belgrade has the intention to do so, regardless of who is in power, now that the parties in power in the province are in opposition, and even before when the ruling majority was the same in Belgrade. In any case, the famous stories of the Vojvodina as development locomotives no longer stand. This locomotive has no rail, no wheels, no fuel and can only stand, like the one in front of the train station in Novi Sad, as a decoration and symbol of some past time, when Vojvodina was really in that Yugoslavia, after Slovenia, the second most developed and was part of Europe in every sense. Today it is not and we should not hope at all that it will become soon, unless we seriously approach this issue and reach a political consensus that, if we want to go to the EU and be part of the European family, we need to know what the normal organisation of the state means and what the province means in terms of relations with the central government, and not that we are here every year, so to speak, to witness some petty fraud, economic and political. Anyway, to you, Mr. Pastor, every honor in terms of your perseverance and initiative that we're trying to finally solve some things. Also, I think the representatives of the government of Vojvodina have good intentions, but the only thing we want here, we who support this amendment, is that the Constitution, which we have been against, is finally respecting and nothing more. Everything else is a topic for some future debates and, hopefully, future times, but soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29735	Ten minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. The word is a folk's letter to Susana Grubjesic, and after it is a folk envoy, Siniša Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29736	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Vojvodina Assembly, I have welcomed, after an hour of application, to get my word. Every year, as far as I know, we've been discussing this topic, from the constitution to today, and with the same result, which is the same target, same distance. Each time, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been accused of not giving enough to Vojvodina, and on this side there are charges against the duchy, the government and the assembly to ask Serbia for too much. Seven percent of the budget, defined by the Constitution, did not tell us whether it was 7% of the income, of the expenditure or of the total budget. It is the cause of all our debates. The constitution was passed, I witnessed, with great compromises, tensions, and at the last minute these 7% were inserted, as well as those three weeks for capital investments, which would say they should have gone from here to investment, not spending. Looks like it happened the other way around. So that we don't keep talking about what happened, how it was, why it was, there's a very simple conclusion. These 7% should not be constitutional matter at all, but should be matter of the law on the financing of Vojvodina and we have been waiting for years. We've been waiting for the Statute of the Duke for years. When he was finally brought and sent here to the National Assembly, 11 months were needed, or he traveled from Novi Sad to Belgrade 11 months, until the day we adopted him here in parliament. Now it turns out that 60% of the statute's provisions are unconstitutional. Why am I saying all this? Because another conclusion comes from all this. It's really no longer here to say that we need a new constitution, that we need a different constitution. It is certain that what was agreed again in 2006 can be re-arranged on a completely different basis and for different reasons. It's not these 7% who go to the Duke's only reason to change the Constitution. The constitution should also be changed because other parts of Serbia deserve to get a chance, to get the kind of autonomy that Vojvodina has, not with all the ingenuity, but a chance to organize regionally. The United regions of Serbia suggest that Serbia has seven regions, to do so: Vojvodina, Belgrade, eastern and western Serbia, Shumadija, Pomoravlje and Kosovo and Metohija, so that everyone gets equal conditions, the chances of developing evenly. What autonomy do we want for Vojvodina? The Vojvodina is a historical autonomy and the autonomy of Vojvodina is unquestionable and I don't think there's any need to waste words about it. But Vojvodina's autonomy remained centralized and Vojvodina remained a centralized province. If that were not the case, those poorest municipalities in Serbia would not have come from Vojvodina. Not all money goes to Belgrade, as it is often accused by Vojvodina, but a lot of that money goes to Novi Sad, and it does not go to parts of Vojvodina that also deserve a chance to develop just like the city of Novi Sad. That's why we, as a state-run party, propose to create an area in Vojvodina. We suggest a multilayer autonomy of the Vojvodina. Srem, Banat and Baka should become duchy areas, while the town of Novi Sad retains special status, as this is the only way for Vojvodina to develop evenly within itself, and regionalisation of Serbia is the only way for all parts of Serbia to develop evenly. For such a thing, we need a change in the Constitution and a debate on the change of the Constitution should become legitimate, present and result in the agreement of all political parties, just as the 2006 Constitution agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29737	Four minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Mr. Radoman has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29738	It is mentioned for the second time that two of Serbia's most underdeveloped municipalities are in Vojvodina. It's just not the right information. You can read about this Regulation on the establishment of a single list of developed regions and units of local self-government for 2013 published in "Glassnik 62" this year, where it is said that in the first group of the most developed of 23 units 13 from Vojvodina and thus by the fourth group, and in 23 municipalities that are devastated, there are none from the AP. When we talk about investing in undeveloped areas, it's interesting that in the first six months of this year of 173 billion, these are data from the Agency for Economic Registers, 4% came to Vojvodina. This is one of the reasons why we feel that this constitutional provision really needs to be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29739	The word has a folk MP, Sinisa Lazic, and after that, MP Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29740	Thank you. Dear Mr Krstic, dear Mr. Pastor, Mr. Radomane, I am fascinated by the general debate on the amendments submitted by the Vojvodina Assembly to the Republic of Serbia's budget and the polemics that are being led here between Mr. Pastor and the MPs, rather than being led by a controversy between the finance minister and MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Simply, that phenomenon of those 7% is something that fascinates me personally, that we are at all discussing 7% and if it is a thousand and a billion billion of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that we are coming into a situation to talk about whether it's 7% of this or it's 7% of that. Is it possible for you to think that 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget is enough to fund all capital investments, maintain investment and all that exists in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Do you know that the previous government has singled out from the National Investment Plan 1.8% of the capital projects budget on the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Do you know that the only source of funding for local self-government is all 45 local self-government, AP Vojvodina? Do you know that 70% of the travel network in Serbia has been redeployed into the first and second lines and financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, while 70% of the routes in the territory of the AP Vojvodina should be financed from the budget of local self-government and a little bit from the AP Vojvodina budget? Do you know that you have transferred the authority to maintain the second-class roads to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, and that you did not provide for sources of funding for what this will be done? Why is it a problem for the state of Serbia to extract through statistical data what kind of social product has been created in the territory of the autonomous province of Vojvodina? So to make one approximation based on that, to lead a social and responsible policy and to undeveloped regions. Whether criteria define who some local administration is developed or undeveloped are quite adequate criteria. Whether funds are clearly transferred from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so we come into the situation that a municipality of Svrlig, which has about 14,000 inhabitants, has a slightly smaller budget than Apatin, which is classified in a highly developed municipality that has a budget, I don't know about 900 million, and Svrljig has about 580 million, and the level of infrastructure and the level of municipal equipment that exists in Apatin and Svrlig is incomparable. So it's simply absurd for us here to discuss 7% of the budget for the AP Vojvodina. It's a shame we're even talking about it. Is it possible, Mr Krstic, that 20 billion within the budget of nearly a thousand and 200 billion are a problem for the government of the Republic of Serbia? Is it possible that an excuse if the previous government did not respect 7%, that it is an excuse that this government does not respect those 7%? Is it possible that we continue to inherit this practice to do it? What's the meaning of autonomy? What's the goal and what's the relationship? Has the Government of the Republic of Serbia painted any buildings in local self-government used by the MUP, hospitals, and these are the institutions of the Republic of Serbia? Have you changed the gutter, the window, the parquet in one building used by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and used by the institutions of the Republic of Serbia or all of this is based on local budgets of local self-government and the budget of the AP Vojvodina? In what conditions do people work at border crossings? Are there only two border crossings in Serbia and where governance will now be integrated? What does the border crossing on the Batina near Somboro look like? What are these people sitting in? Is it possible for one of these centralized states where 85% of the budget is managed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is a shame to say that 5% of the budgets use all the local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? And that we are discussing here today this amount and whether we should accept the amendments of the Vojvodina Assembly to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, this phenomenon that exists here, and we'll keep the topic averted from whether or not the Constitutional Court challenged the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. It's a secondary question, my dear colleagues at this point, we're talking about life, we're talking about some real things. We're talking about whether we can build a mile of highway. Has anyone asked the people of Vojvodina what the budget of the Republic of Serbia should look like in the coming period? Did you ask the government of the AP Vojvodina when you came up with this budget – what do you think as part of the administrative system of the Republic of Serbia about what the budget of the Republic of Serbia should look like in the coming period? Do you have any projects that are important for funding or we will go out and say – it is an important road and tunnel through the Frust Mountain and it will be the only project that we will support. Is the government of the AP Vojvodina supposed to finance the bridge over the Danube, the former Jell-O Bridge? Is that supposed to be based on the AP Vojvodina budget, and we're going to deny them the funds? It's normal then, it's perfectly reasonable, and when we have to obey the constitutional norm, then it's abnormal because, my God, it's going to abuse the Capital Investment Fund or abuse someone else. Do you know that the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund is the only address to which local self-governments from the AP Vojvodina can turn to do any infrastructure capital project? I can't believe you, Mr. Krstic, you're a young man and a brave man, you've agreed to run a country's finances which is in serious trouble that you simply don't have the courage to say -- I'm going to cut this thing off from this moment on, and I'm going to respect what it is. Unfortunately, some agreed with it or not, the only one that respected that constitutional norm was the government of Vojislav Kostunica between 2004 and 2008. It's true, like it or not, it's true. It's the only government that respected what they had to do with the AP Vojvodina. So I can't understand that there's a controversy at all. What leprosy with Mr. Pastor? Mr. Pastor has come as the legitimate representative of the amendment's motion. It is precisely with Mr. Krstic that I need to compromise and why you have not accepted this amendment, why you have even put us in a position to propose this amendment at all. What's supposed to happen? We've had a violation of the Constitution here in previous years that later resulted in all of this happening in this society. Then we'll go through some legal formal formulations to say that the Constitutional Court ruled on one or the other side. Says one of my colleagues here - this is a cake. So it's not Serbia's budget cake, Serbia's budget is a bitter pill that we should all swallow somewhere and make it happen, but you can't save on what's unsustainable. Is it the priority of the Republic of Serbia to make a highway to Montenegro? What's the economic interest in us building a highway to Montenegro? There are 600,000 people living in Montenegro, is that a priority? Is it the agreement of priorities in this country or is it the priority of two million people living in Vojvodina? Are the economic resources that exist in the AP Vojvodina worth more than 600,000 markets in Montenegro? Representatives of local self-government from the AP Vojvodina, stop courting the political elite in Belgrade to make some personal statuses. Start thinking about what's the interest of the environment you come from. Why didn't you support some amendments? Why don't you support this? It is easy to criticize today what it is doing and where it is the end of it because we have the constant palpitation of a political elite to another political elite to position itself somewhere. Get involved with concrete analyses, compare, find, compact what is it that the AP Vojvodina will return to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Every dinar that goes to the AP Vojvodina has repeatedly returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Every penny and whoever wants to confess or not. I really don't see Mr. Krstic, the reasons why you didn't accept these amendments and why you didn't once and for all take this item off the agenda and say that, "Vojvodini belongs to 7% and that's it, but it belongs to us something else beyond those 7%, that we have the right to withdraw some funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia that are not those 7%." That 7% is too small for two million people and for the infrastructure that exists in the territory of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29741	Nine minutes and fifty seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP Milorad Mijatovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29742	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the President of the Vojvodina Assembly with his associates, I see MPs from Vojvodina are here, and I have the impression that everyone wants to show something and talk to each other like my former colleague said, to someone or not. I'm sorry, it's not like that. We live and work in a part of our country called Vojvodina, very interested in good things happening there, that Vojvodina that has considerable advantages continues to develop. You know, it won't be better for Serbia if the Vojvodina gets worse. So here we advocate that Vojvodina goes forward and exploits all its resources, first of all, the quality of the land it has, that agriculture develops, the food industry, that we use oil, gas, of course, tourism and all the infrastructure we have in Vojvodina and that is very developed and that we still need to develop, not lagging behind. One more thing, I would like in this assembly, in this high house when we mention the word of Vojvodina not to go to the first associations where our money, secession, is just something they're looking for, they care about Serbia, they only think about themselves. That's not true. This theatre performance that I called Vojvodina, I could even give the title and the duke's farce because it repeats itself every year and does not solve anything that needs to be done. I'm afraid this duchess farce tomorrow doesn't become a duchess tragedy for the simple reason we're not looking for a solution to the problem. I also think that when we talk about problems, we often solve the problem by opening up new problems and moving to those areas that will not solve them. Why am I saying this? Last year I spoke, and my colleague Sojić also said that, I always wondered why it was 7%? Why isn't it 17% or why isn't it 4%? That 7% was done, brought in, and we're discussing them. Mathematically, if there's a desire and will, it's easy to calculate what 7% is. But there doesn't seem to be a need to talk about it for a simple reason because 7% is becoming something that's mysterious, something that's in the twilight zone, and that fact itself, we come into a situation to discuss often the same questions. The fact that the citizens of Vojvodina live, like all citizens of Serbia, no one will put that in the first place. No one will admit that somewhere where you live in the Duke's well-being, it's only New Sad. All the other corners of the Vojvodina, be it Banat, Baka and Srem, you're living badly. If this keeps going on, it's gonna be harder and harder and we're always going to discuss a lot of problems where these money goes and where it's being spent. I absolutely agree that we need to pass a law on the financing of Vojvodina. It was promised last year, before last year, it should have been brought much earlier. I hope this promise will not be just a promise from our competent minister, which will last until June, but I'm afraid it will be so knowing what is further being prepared, that we will remain on the same line, that this law will not be passed. One more thing. This is what we're talking about, the Constitution, constitutional changes, etc. I must say that this constitution, indeed, that was brought in in 2006, did not endure the test of time and that it must change. Is he supposed to change now? I don't think we need this moment for a simple reason, we have much more important and important issues to address before we reach constitutional change and constitutional debates. Why? We will have to change this constitution if nothing is due to EU accession. We will also have to discuss what degree of autonomy the Vojvodina should have, which are also responsible for those powers and resources. So, clearly, transparent, very visible and those resources that will then be directed towards Vojvodina, but not to Novi Sad, but as there have been speeches in all local self-government, because I am against centralisation of funds in Novi Sad as well. He needs to go to local self-government, so where the people live, so that those funds can be realised, that it'll be much better. Therefore, if we are discussing amendments I must say that they must be consistent with this budget. Since we didn't get all those arguments, either side. I must say that according to this SDP will vote as a party to the position to reject these amendments with a desire to open discussions on what we have said today and to solve the problem, not create new problems. By growing that optimism, I expect that by June of the month, according to the promise of Mr. Secretary of Finance, we will have a law that will be quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29743	Mr. Istvan Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29744	We're a few sentences of reaction to Mr. Mijatovic's exposure. It's my fault if you're experiencing this as a duke's farce. It's simply a situation where, if a man wants to be responsible, and I think he needs to be responsible, then he needs to be able to express his views within the institutions of the system. This isn't a farce. This is the only way to conduct a discussion. As for the promise and the tone of the conversation, I want to remind you that in this same friendly tone, we had a debate last year. We agreed on everything, just like we do now. Meanwhile, it's been a year, so nothing happened. I would just like to remind myself that just those days, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an Action Plan to deliver recommendations from the European Commission at its session of 6 December 2012 and at the 37th point, saying that the government is obliged to adopt a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and that it will form a working group and prepare a draft in the first half of 2013 and that the Ministry of Finance is in charge of the economy to implement this commitment. I think that if we talk responsibly about the state of affairs, then it's a fundamental question -- how is it possible to pass more than six months from the expiry of the deadline that the government has set, and that we are in the same place that we were a year ago? I think it might be a farce.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29745	Mr. Arsic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think this debate is a political farce. I fully understand the representatives of the AP Vojvodina. They're responding, a good deed in front of the citizens of our AP for the results that this government has. But I'm opposed to some of my colleagues bringing lies here for this pay phone. I would like to remind fellow Members of the People's Parliament that it doesn't matter, it doesn't need their prevailing position to be where it comes from. No one can say from MPs that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is a thousand and 100 billion dinars. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is 930 billion dinars. The rest are loans. Of these real incomes, the Republic of Serbia should transfer towards funds, according to the pension fund and the Health Insurance Fund 530 billion dinars and with the rest of the money provide funding for local self-government of the AP Vojvodina, other state bodies, such as the military, such as the police, such as education and financing of capital projects. That's what reality is. To clear up finally with those 7% from where it should be, on the one side that's real, real tax revenues, what the state is earning by exercising its powers given to it by the Constitution. As well as local self-governments, they have the right to transfer funds under the Constitution and the Transfer Assets Act, and no one defends those local self-governments to carry out and certain budget duties in accordance with the budgetary system of the Budgetary System Act. So that right no one contests the AP either. The truth is that in the budget, except for those 7%, nothing adds to the AP, or units of local self-government AP Vojvodina, because it's enough to read 200 pages of the Budget Act and you'll see that, let's say, New Vienna goes 150 million, for Novi Sad 920 million, for Odjaks 226 million, for Kikind 181 million, etc. I don't want to pick it up. And that's divided, the 33 billion in all of Serbia. He's talking about the highway. I already said at the board meeting, I'll do it again here. I was very happy when the highway was completed from Belgrade to Horgos or from Horgos to Belgrade, call whatever you want, which is the second bridge on Beška, because Serbia is beginning to develop. You have no development without road infrastructure and other infrastructure. Is it realistic that someone now says behind this pay phone – we don't need a highway to Užica, we don't need a highway to Prepolje, we don't need a highway to Priboj. It is not a highway for the Montenegrin market, it is made for citizens of Serbia, regardless of whether they are in the AP territory or the rest of Serbia. Serbia has its constitutional obligation and this National Assembly to guarantee equality for all citizens, regardless of what part of the territory they were in, to allow even development across their territory. Our citizens from the AP Vojvodina territory will not take advantage of their advantages such as the highway if Serbia does not complete the highway both from Leskovec to Presevo and Leskovec to Dimitrovgrad. It cannot be good for Vojvodina if it is not good for Serbia, the rest of Serbia, and vice versa. He can't. We live in one country, we're connected, and that's something that's perfectly normal. I'm sorry some colleagues see this as an opportunity for personal promotion. I don't think that's correct of them, and I think they should be representing attitudes not for political points, but for looking at the overall one situation we're living in today. We know you live hard in Vojvodina. Living hard in the rest of Serbia. We don't have to tell anyone that, everybody here knows that. And no one's torment is greater than their own, that's true, but respect someone else's. So, respect all the problems of all the citizens of Serbia that they have today when it comes to the economic and social situation in which Serbia is. I find it perfectly correct that this question, whether or not the Constitution should change or not, should finally be put to a point on this story once. The law requires regulation of what belongs to the autonomous province of tax revenues, that it must be in accordance with the Constitution and that we finally take this point off the agenda once, so that someone does not score cheap political points on this story, thus bringing astray and those living in Vojvodina and those living in the rest of Serbia. Let's finally finish this story once. It is likely that this law will not be at the will of those who represent an autonomous province and others, but I believe that such a law, if there is no party at will, would fully achieve its purpose and be completely realistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29747	Mr Branislav Mitrovica has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29748	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The very fact that since 10:00 p.m., we are discussing a single amendment clearly indicates how much our need in Serbia is to talk about a balanced division of what we have in the republican budget. This only confirms that it is necessary and will only be necessary in the next period, because we believe that so far there is not enough time, attention and energy devoted to a balanced, more balanced spending of money and even regional development, and that this will precisely be topics that, in the coming period and in the coming years, much more must be said in Serbia. That is what the United Regions of Serbia insist on. A clear position on this amendment and on our position on this issue has been expressed by our representative, Mrs Grubjesic, in a clear and ecladic way. I understand all the representatives from all over, including the Vojvodina, who are struggling to define as large a sum of money as possible for their territory. However, I do not want us to leave this session without giving an answer to one of the speakers who appeared before me – why build a highway to Montenegro or Montenegro and for 500,000 people in Montenegro? Corridor 11 is not built, I speak loud and clear from this pay phone, for the sake of the citizens of Montenegro. Yes, and for them, and for all those economic operators in Montenegro, but above all for four million Serbian citizens who are gravitating Corridor 11. Corridor 11 or the highway to western Serbia remains for Montenegro is not only the closest distance between western Serbia and Belgrade, the closest distance between the port of Bar and the port of Danube and other pan-European corridors, the issue of Corridor 11, the issue of highways for western Serbia, is the question of the future of citizens of western Serbia. And so I pray that this assembly will not be left without an answer to the question why the highway to western Serbia. The highway to western Serbia is necessary and I absolutely support Mr Arsic. I will only specify the fact that in the previous period no significant investment or investor has come to western Serbia precisely because of a lack of serious infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29749	The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29750	I'd just like to remove some of the concerns I've had about the discussion. My discussion primarily referred to priorities. If I know correctly, and I believe I'm absolutely right, there's a plane traffic for the Republic of Montenegro, there's road traffic and there's rail traffic, there's an electrified Belgrade-Bar track. It's three travel corridors that exist and work. I don't mind if we're a highly developed country and putting priorities and possibilities together, building a highway across Serbia, to every place. So, dear colleagues, I didn't discuss in that direction that I shouldn't. I've discussed it in the direction of priority, so that we can return double the funds if we put priorities together and plan where we're going to invest and what we're going to build. If I tell you that two highways pass through the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary today along the border crossing with the Republic of Serbia at Bezdan and Bačka Breg, while a piece of highway from Vrbasa to Somboro is located in five municipalities, where there are serious industries, which have 250 thousand hectares of farmland, where there is a process industry, that there is an enormous transport of agricultural products on that road infrastructure and there is no electrified railways, that there is no adequate road traffic, there are no roads around these inhabited areas, that there are over 250 thousand people living there, then that is a priority. I didn't talk about whether or not I should. Yes, you should. It also takes for Montenegro a highway, if you're going near the port of Bar or near the port of Ploče or about what's cheaper for us, you see, I don't see any difference in whether we're exporting our goods from Rijeka, or we're exporting it from Bar, or from Ploč, it's all the same to me, it's the cost we have, with what I think transport costs are much cheaper and much less, and if you want for Montenegro – you can take the train and you can take the plane. These are priorities. We're multiplying things somewhere, and somewhere we can't even let the power go that we have an electric train at least to Apatino and to Somboro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29751	The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29752	We're obviously talking about grandmothers and frogs. I'm talking about Serbia's development, and we're continuing to talk about air traffic with Montenegro. Believe me, I'm very little interested in that. Around the highway, I'm asking another question. One of the most burdened traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is the Ibar highway, which definitely affects traffic safety most, and the largest number of traffic accidents is right there. Is that the part, the part of the highway? Yes, it is. Should we have a highway from Belgrade to Cačka? Why not? Why don't you go to the Uzic. Why don't you go to Pryboy's. It's not a highway to Montenegro to go to the market there or to go on a vacation. The highway develops the environment in which it is located. And there are some people living there, but to them, let's say, from Uzic to the nearest highway is 170 kilometers. Who's going to invest there? Who's gonna do something about it? Who's there to get them to hire people? That's what this is about. Let's not get into any more passenger traffic. This is about traffic, an infrastucture that allows development, not to talk about the route all the way to New Pazar, what it's like and what's going on there. The job of our Members of Parliament is to have the right to our own and our own opinion, etc., at least we in the SNS, but when we make some decisions, we have an obligation as MPs to allow even development across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that every citizen literally has the right to the same chance. I don't blame either the city of Belgrade, nor the fact that it has certain potentials. There's a large population. A large number probably didn't come here because he liked it, but he was on his way to provide himself with a future, and he saw the greatest chance. If we want to prevent such pressure on our capital, because at some point it will not be able to withstand it, we need to ensure that this other part of Serbia develops through the quality of life through investment. Then there will be less pressure on the capital, and possibly even opposite migration than it has ever been before. If we move only one part of Serbia to develop, make sure that in 20, 30 years, that other part will be empty. There'll be no one left, except old households who no longer have anywhere to go and pensioners. It is a constitutional obligation that every MP, when making his decisions, think and take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29753	The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29754	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arsic, that's exactly what we're talking about, even development, but just so we know, the criteria that define where a highway is going to be built is the intensity of traffic and the axle load that is there. Do you know how many cars a day are moving on the route between Tower and Vrbba? You've got over seven thousand vehicles transporting there. Do you know how many processing facilities and industries exist on that move from 60 to 70 kilometers from Somboro to Vrbba? Do you know that there is a "Apathian brewery" that there is a serious construction industry, that there are two sugars, that there is a "Carnex" that there is a serious industry that requires adequate infrastructure? Do you know how many vehicles there are between Backa Palanca and Novi Sad? Do you know how much between Ruma, Republika Srpska and Novi Sad? I'm not saying that people shouldn't have good infrastructure, but the question is whether this infrastructure, which will be exploited by our carriers, can return the money invested in it. What you're talking about, Mr. Arsic, is local traffic for locals and locals. I'm talking about something that's part of the international corridor and something that's the interest of this country and I'm telling you to run a responsible social policy somewhere, you have to have a balanced relationship with what you can get some money out of, and in less developed regions, you're going to build quality infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29755	National MP Branislav Mitrovica, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29756	Certainly, Corridor 11, the highway to western Serbia, is not a road of local character. I would hate for this debate to turn into a competition or a local patriotic struggle or drilling into a patriotic breast bar, who is more interested in getting out of the budget for his area or for his region. The fact is that today in Serbia, unfortunately, none of the regions, so on Vojvodina, have been sufficiently developed, nor have any parts of Vojvodina. There is no need today for us to compete between ourselves who is more in love with our region and who will fight for more money, but I cannot let anyone say that my region, the region from which I come, is a region of less priority. I agree that we need to establish priorities, but if I said that four million people are gravitating on the Belgrade highway -- western Serbia still for Montenegro, I repeat again, this is not the highway to Montenegro, but primarily for the people of Serbia and the Užičana, and the Cacana, and those from Obrenovac, and Ljig, and Loznica, and Cačka and Kralje. So, tones can be a lower priority path. Will someone say that Zlatibor, Tara and Zlatar are something that is not a significant potential? At one point, in one day there are 20,000 tourists on Zlatibor. Are you saying that this is a road of local character? So, the highway to western Serbia, I don't allow anyone to place it in the roads of local character, is a question of the future of development of western Serbia, but at no point do I want to reduce your need to fight for Vojvodina, both for Vrbas, both for Apatin and for each of your places, but I just don't allow you to put western Serbia on a scale of priorities lower than your region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29757	MP Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29758	Okay, everyone has a right to their own opinion. Probably many of these roads would have been made if the government of the Republic of Serbia had not had to cover the losses of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" of 500m euros. That's 200 kilometers of highway. By these criteria, here is the finance minister, I am sorry that Minister Velimir Ilic is not there, and then I would have the right to seek the highway for my Firefighters. And we have as much-developed industry as we do. It's Serbia's second cereal, Braničevsky County. We also have mines. We've got oil, well, well, well, well, well. We've got gas, well, well, well, well, well. Why don't you make the highway from Fireman to Kladov? Why not? By the way, we'll connect Bor, our copper mine, etc. Let's be realistic. I think she's a doctrine from the age of SFRY overcome. To remind you, only one republic developed at that time, and it was meant to provide development for the other five. It didn't work out. It has to develop evenly. Let's base ourselves on that principle you're talking about. The next consequence that will be? Well, you'll be on your way, and the Chacans will be on the escalator in Vojvodina. You can't blame them. They're looking for their place under the sun. What are you going to do with them? Will it lower your labour price? It will. That's what I'm talking about. It's not worth it. As long as it's not even, there'll be migration that doesn't benefit either side.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29759	National MP Siniša Lazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29760	Thank you. It's my fault that you're misreading what I was talking about. I don't want to diminish the importance of any corridor, of any route. Every investment in the road is always justified. I'm just talking about priorities, exactly what you're talking about, about even development, about having multiplicated systems somewhere, about having railways as well as such developed and road infrastructure and somewhere in some parts of the air traffic, and we have some parts of the country where it doesn't exist. I'm talking about this evenness right now. The Ibar Highway is an acute problem, which exists in the Republic of Serbia, is a huge number of and car accidents and a huge number of problems that exist. That's absolutely correct and you're absolutely right, but we're talking about 7% of the capital investment budget in the AP Vojvodina and we're talking about what needs to be done. And we talk about priorities, and everything else, I totally agree with you everywhere is justified to invest and invest and everywhere is good to every village, to every school, to every populated place, to every home of health it is necessary for people to have a decent way. But it's also polite to keep the existing infrastructure at some useful level, not to make highways, and to keep the streets and local traffic in the mud unsecured, which have much more than highways and that some limited resources that we don't have to waste and push them on some priorities to make a highway to someone else's house or bring some adequate electrical energy, some power or something else. I'm talking about priorities, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29761	Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of Dusica Morčev and Marko Milutinovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29762	Dear Prime Minister, honourable government representatives, fellow MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 where we asked that in table one, which refers to total revenue and income of 929,942,000,000 change the amount of 909,942,000,000 and the amount of excise duty of 227,600,000 change of 207,60.000. Why did we propose this? Because for several years, the government has been unreally planning excise revenues. I would remind you that with the 2013 budget, the government was planning revenue of 225 billion dinars and the DS parliamentary group said that the assessment was unrealistic. The government recognised this as a budget rebalance and budget rebalance for 2013 the excise revenues fell to 217 billion. It's so planned for rebalancing, and as much as we have this data now, and it's coming to an end of the year. When you look at the monthly flow of revenues, around 200 billion dinars will be poured into the 2013 budget. With this draft budget, it is expected that there will be an increase in excise revenues in 2014 and that it is projected to be 227 billion and that is slightly more than 10% compared to what revenue we will end in 2013. I assume you planned this increase in excise income by going in as announced in this fight against the gray economy, in which we fully support you, but we think it's unrealistic that in the first year of 2014, the result of this struggle could lead to an increase in excise revenues of 10%. With this pre-ambitious income planning, it's being falsely reduced by such a huge deficit, and we're telling you today, you'll admit by the rebalancing that we were right, as you admitted by the previous rebalancing that what we were saying about the 2013 budget. So I ask you to take this amendment as a well-intentioned distraction, that these revenues are not realistic and that we should show as much real revenue as we can expect in 2014 and see how much the deficit is really going to be in 2014, and not that this unrealistic income planning, we create some false picture and some false state that we are in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29763	The MP, Prof. Ruzica Igic, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarian Dr Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29764	Dear People's MPs, the minister is gone, I hope it will come during my debate. When you look at this budget proposal, you'll see on the dissipated side, expenditure on international organisations that this percentage has been increased by 115%. In the budget rebalance in 2013, it amounted to a billion and 155 million, while the draft budget envisions two billion and 508 million. We at the DSS disagree with this founding of the finance minister, not to put this amount to this dispensing party for international organisations, because many of them receive EU funds themselves, then for individual projects related to international co-operation, they receive certain funds. With this amendment, we have transferred funds to the youth talent fund, and you know well that this fund was formed at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and should have helped young intellectuals to school, and then in some ways return it to the state. I think the minister himself was a beneficiary of these subsidies. So the last three years have not increased the funds to the youth talent fund, and for these reasons, we have been encouraged to increase the funds for young talent. I remind you that Serbia is a high-level country on the brain drain. The World Economic Forum has conducted some analysis, polls and 144 countries as much as these countries care for their young talents, for their intellectuals, Serbia is 141. Also, I have to say that from 1990 to today, about 300,000 intellectuals have moved out of Serbia. So Serbia is at a loss, because if their education costs 300,000 euros to obtain intellectual status or Dr. Science, it has lost about nine billion euros in these 20 years. So we tried, first of all, to point out to the government that these young talents have to stay here in Serbia and that the government has to do something to motivate them to stay here. Since the demographic situation in Serbia is extremely bad, we are the fourth people of age in Europe and the tenth in the world. If it continues at this rate, we will one day be extinct. We also don't understand why the minister didn't accept this amendment, or because of the moratorium on employment for the next two years, so he and the government simply say, those funds for the young talent fund don't need to, because they won't be able to be employed in the next two years anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29765	Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll be back in 15 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Djuric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29767	Vice-President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, somehow a great, excellent hit, we're starting this afternoon's session. My amendment referred to issues of subsidies to public enterprises. With my amendment, I suggested that a significant reduction in the subsidies that we will allocate in 2014 for "Serb Railways", to reduce the grant that exists, or a grant that exists to a completely inefficient and national employment service, and that most of that money go into social protection, or that at least in that way we try to correct that mistake we have for years, not to say for decades, that we are actually transferring the problem of financing social protection rather than through the budget to public enterprises. I hope you don't mind very much, Minister, those fellow MPs who feel the need to talk to you or negotiate with you as long as this important law is under discussion. Yesterday we talked on the Finance Committee in part about it. I must tell you, in the meantime, there have been some new circumstances, Mr. Radulovic. My concern, among other things, is "The Railways" some kind of incident broke out between "The Railways" and the trade unions that exist in "The Railways" on the issue – do union organisations have the right to sit in the central administrative building "The Railway of Serbia"? In public, it was almost undetected, I would say, however, the outgoing director of Railways, Mr. Simonovic, that unions cannot be in that building because they interfere with the normal work process because 2,000 people work in the building. I've read it three times. So the director of Railways said that 2,000 people work in the central administrative building "Serb Railway". There's 250 of us here. There are now twenty of us, perhaps, trying to run this country's policy and in the "Serb Railways" in the central administration building, to repeat 2,000 people's work once more. A particular kind of problem that there are 28 union organizations in this company. This cannot be resolved by the government, but the issue of managing a system such as the Railways can and must be resolved by the government. I suggested that at least this year we cut that grant to the Railways by a billion dinars. The government answered me, I have to say, slightly and cynically, that the amendment cannot be accepted because it would endanger participation in funding so-called. A Russian loan, on the other hand, to endanger the security of traffic on Serbian railways. I've read all sorts of reasons for the rejection of the amendments in the budgets, but this cynical, almost rude explanation, I have to admit I'm not recently. So where 2,000 employees work, reportedly works in a central administration building, and trains move at a speed of 40 or 45km per hour, finally seducing order would endanger traffic safety. There's an even worse situation with the National Employment Service. We've already talked about this, 109 million dinars for travel expenses for those who work at the National Employment Service. Catastrophic data on unemployment in Serbia and on the other hand, 2 million dinars, Mr. Radulovic in the budget, for the travels of an inspector who should protect workers' rights. I have to say that this may be even more cynical than the reasoning we got from the functioning of "The Railway of Serbia". There are many similar chaotic solutions to this draft budget. We'll try to make sure in this afternoon's debate today when you're here to open up some more questions. I'm saying we partially opened them yesterday. For us, the key question – what policy does the government actually run? The answer can't be that every minister in his domain runs a partial or partial reform policy, and that actually the results at the end of the year or at the beginning of the new year, through this draft budget law, are this disastrous. Another question – when will the government at least start applying the current Law on Public Enterprises? When will they introduce order into several of the biggest losers and at least open space to talk or try to reach the kind of agreement that is only important and only sustainable for the country at the moment so that we can go to some new elections with this normal policy? With such selective and limited interventions, the beginnings of reforms will constantly create a sense of injustice and non-solidity in a society that is expected to make this many victims, and at the same time you will fund the rotten national losers who are not thinking of starting any reform in their own frameworks. This is not a question of the Director of Railways individually or by name. It's a matter of a system that's being set up, and that's why you have so many problems in those rare segments where at least you announce some reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29768	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29769	We've had one misbehaving matrix years ago, and I wish we could change that matrix quickly and in a short time. However, the process will take some time. Problems are numerous in many areas. We're also on our way with public enterprises. The things you've identified stand. The first step we took was to look at the situation in public enterprises, to create these ID cards for the list of assets, to determine what the situation is. What's amazing is that we didn't know that, or that we didn't have that data and that three months took effort to get to the first data. Next amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises next year, licensing of directors, members of supervisory boards, professionalisation of the entire system. The budget and what you have pointed to reflects the fact that reforms have not been made. This applies not only to "Serb Railways" but also to the National Employment Service. I'm not gonna pretend it's anything other than that. It is planned in 2014 to work intensively to restructure public enterprises in large part and in the jurisdiction of my ministry and I expect significant shifts, first with the adoption of a new law and then with professionalisation. For example, directors will have to be licensed, they will have to take some exams at the level of MBA education you have in the west. In order to run such a large company, you must have certain qualifications. Also, we need to focus not on a little, but also on the substantial profitability of these companies. Most of them are monopolies, and they lose money. We also run social policy through public enterprises, so strong social policy is needed beyond electricity prices, for example. and transport prices, so these companies can function normally. These are all the tasks we have to do in 2014. If we do not overcome that reform, the consequences of society will be great. The consequences of past inaction are obviously large and clear to all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29770	Replica, Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29771	Thank you for your response, but that is exactly what I was saying, that there is no announcement of these reforms in the 2014 budget. These figures, which are in the budget, always very clearly confirm whether or not there will be reforms. Our amendment was to remove a partial social function from public enterprises and transfer it to where it should be, so social protection from the budget. There is no such thing in this draft budget. I tell you once again, you will create a terrible, extra sense of social injustice in society. People live next door to their neighbors or colleagues who are somehow, through these measures, protected. The society will always, unfortunately, react before reacting to some scandal over where it ate some director of a public enterprise or some kind of travel cost, not to the fact that, when all public enterprises are taken, billions of euros accumulated losses that we can't actually repay and service. It is a great delusion that the situation, for example, is due exclusively to personal incompetence in Serbia's Railways. It is primarily the result of the wrongly set system and of all the losses and errors generated from such a system. You will not find the director of Railways who will be able to build and manage the company successfully, in whatever status, whether it is public or in any other form, if there is no one to travel the Serbian railways and if there is nothing to carry the Serbian railways. There are no new reforms. These vicious circles continue, or chains, where you try, your government, not always you personally, to subsidize everything in that chain and it's absolutely unsustainable. All the public talk is mostly small or slightly larger examples of personal haughtiness, including that, for example, on the website "The Railways", which has its own English part, they could not write correctly or as the function of their director is called. (President: Time.) You've got it every step of the way. Let's say, the PIO fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29772	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29773	Once again, this absence of reforms at the Railways and the National Service is reflected in the budget. We expect in 2014 to prepare these reforms, e.g. If you want to reform the Railways, if you want to have a different budget, you must already go into the process. It's not where we're headed. The first step we took in the last three months is to at least determine the situation in companies and there is still no indication of how the reorganisation should be implemented. I also agree with the assessments that are consequences and that it is not just about the inability of management, it is about a system that doesn't work, that it needs to be changed, that we can't subsidize all the parts of that chain, which are "railways", that it's pointless to invest in compositions, in wagons, and that we have a track where in certain places you have to lower speed at 15 kilometers an hour. It is, unfortunately, the result of years of neglect and absence of such plans. We started them, so I expect that in 2014, it is, as I said, in the large part and task of the Ministry of Economy, to prepare for the restructuring that will then be taken in the 2015 budget. With the social system, I also agree here, I think Serbia needs a universal social protection system, so that we can get the social system out of public enterprises again. We haven't done this in years, and I think it's going to have to happen in 2014, because it's reforming that system, such as health system reform, education and the entire public enterprise sector, we're going to have to get into these deep reforms, to get out of the problems we're currently in. The fact is, the budget does not reflect reforms because they are not prepared in 2013. We expect to do so in 2014, so the 2015 budget will reflect this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29774	Mr. Djuric, is there really a need for replication? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29775	The budget always reflects political relations in the ruling coalition, that is, unfortunately or fortunately, so. That's why we insist so much that with relations like this arranged in the ruling coalition, with so many differences, with the fact that you have a Prime Minister who actually tells you every day that "tumantru" that you can't do surgery if the patient is eventually going to die. When anyone in Serbia hears this about making some kind of decision on reforms, he pulls a manual and waits for politicians to agree or we slip back into some kind of demagogy and populism, or get into some election campaign. We would like Serbia's elections to be held very quickly, but to discuss these reforms in the campaign. I think everyone overestimates, people in the government, especially those who came to the government in the context of reconstruction, especially that ambition that you're going to do the analysis, and then you're going to be able to clear the balance and solve the situation. It is taken as an example, I agree, for the time being, a relatively successful example of JAT, or Er Serbia. That's not possible in all sectors. Look who they owe the railroads to. If you start to apply the concept of ownership conversion, you'll see it's inadmissible, and then we won't have the railroad system anymore. I don't even want to open the question of "Serbiagas." You have chains of debt to each other. If you were to convert claims, i.e. debts that exist in the system of public local, public utility companies, heat, "Srbigas", NIS, "Gasprom Naft", you would come to heaven to see that someone in Moscow actually owns the entire system of heating, oil supply, gas, key vital things for the life of this country. Then that's where you'll have to compromise and step away from the solution. Once it's done, then the entire reform system collapses. How are you going to reform the Railways if you don't know what the territory they're working on is? (Chairman: Time, Mr. Guric. ) Because every election in Kosovo is preceded by a composition that drives to Kosovo's Mitrovica or some place. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Guric. I'm sorry, 20 more seconds. That is why solutions to all these problems are primarily in the political sphere, and only their implementation is a matter of economic skills or knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29776	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29777	I would agree with the whole first part of the presentation, except for the last sentence. I think what you've described is exactly the problems that we're trying to determine, exactly what you've described, who you owe to and on what basis and how much to get to the entire chain, because you can't look at just one company in isolation. It's not just about "The Railways", it's about "Serbigas" and the EPS and every public enterprise. I don't think it's possible to restructure and heal any company if we don't determine that condition. Then we're just talking about some things that aren't concrete, that we really don't know what we're talking about. Whether it's possible to restructure or not afterwards, what the consequences will be, we'll do it by running an analysis based on the data and seeing what options we have. Because we've come this far, as far as we've come, we've been irresponsible for a while, now we really have to draw a line and say -- that's the situation, and let's see if the state wants to pay all these debts and remain a 100% owner, or we'll have some other models to solve these problems. I don't think the option of sticking your head in the sand is drinking water anymore, so we have to get out of it. Indeed, it has lasted too long and I think neither the citizens of Serbia nor the budget can bear it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29778	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I may in some way support this amendment. We who participate in the production of goods, of which the real budget is being filled, should welcome any savings offered by one of the MPs, one of the proposings. Therefore, I would have no doubt that this amendment is supported, given that the new "entire" is, and that we, who produce goods, are proportionate to our economic strength, money for common needs, because not everyone can protect himself, everyone can heal, each of us can educate himself. Therefore, we single out money and choose people who will take care of these public affairs, and they only hire the necessary number of people to carry out these public affairs. The problem arose when the necessary number grew to three times the number of public sector employees, so that they resorted to taking disproportionate economic strength, but to taking too much from the real sector, and that's why we came where we came from. To settle that other part of the public sector, not only to be taken beyond measure, it wasn't relatively economic power, but more, and then when we couldn't make as much money as they could spend, then they said -- we don't care, if you can't make as much money as we can, we'll put you in charge. That's exactly what happened. Not only is the problem that happened, but we now have the most complaints from those who have made it possible to employ an excessive number of people in the public sector and to take disproportionate economic strength, i.e. to take more and take and what we have not earned. Therefore, I would support every amendment, with the proposal being required to provide for the savings and the Stock Reserve Directorate. Article 1 should have included that part. For example, he could have anticipated a fourm-euro savings, exactly how many of their party's leaders received wheat from the stock reserves. So I don't have anything from this budget. I've been listening for a few days at the expense of this budget that he's not doing well. I, of the 740,000 employees, have neither as an individual nor as a party. I don't even have a porter in the public sector. But the amendments and proposals for various savings should have been a little self-critical, so to speak – our leader has received from the budget user wheat for a loan from the stock reserves over the year 21 million pounds, worth four million euros. It happened before the harvest. The release of that wheat into the peasant trade has reduced the price of five dinars. With 23 dinars and 84 pairs, there were 15 dinars, and in the harvest the least wheat was supposed to be 20 dinars, that it was not released at the end of May, and it was 21,000 tonnes, or 21 million kilograms. By destroying the price, peasants lost about 100m euros or 20,000 Ferguson tractors. That's why I would support this amendment if it predicted savings, even for that debt profit that was about 130 million dinars in July. It's easy on the cost of a poor woman who fills the budget to drink 5,000-euro wine, which is my mother's 500-dollar pension. It's easy to be betrayed by other people's money, it's easy to be a businessman, and it's easy to make public business private businesses. That's why I would support this amendment if he predicted that kind of savings, and this is not how I can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29780	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29781	Mr. Chairman, this isn't a farm, so let me rephrase that phenomenon. I called as a representative of the parliamentary group to explain the amendment of MP Bojan Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29782	So you're not going to replicate?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29783	I don't know how to communicate with that kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29784	I'll give you my word, but then I must honor the order of the reported. I thought you wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29785	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29786	I thought you wanted the replica, but since you want the amendment, then the word is Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29787	I think we can agree on what is the key and what is the essence of this amendment. You said in your speech earlier that we had to pass a new law on public enterprises. As SDPS, we support and support the possibility of opening an international tender for bringing in top professionals to run these companies. In one way, I would be able to reach out, but I would also deny a respected colleague, Đurić, because it is precisely the fact that there are 28 unions in the Railways that are all stationed in the same building, which is exactly the problem of management. So it's not a problem for the state or anyone. If you want to obey the law, 15% of every union needs to be representative. In the best possible version of six or seven, they can get rooms and whatever is legally theirs, and they can't get 28. That's also the situation at the Ministry of the Interior, where you have 14 unions that involve 500 people working for these unions, and they don't work at their jobs and you have two representative unions out of 14. So 500 people, 14 cars, 14 secretaries, 14 offices. This is precisely the problem we have, concerning the professionality of management and finally management of some market and modern principles, both in the private and public sectors, which we want it to be. Of course, it is acceptable for our party to transfer everything from the budget, such as social protection, such as commitments to the PIO Fund. Every possibility is acceptable to us, but I just don't understand why the railroads are here. We could have asked for a reduction in the subsidy either "Srbigas" or "Smederev's Irons". It's just a question to me, nothing else. Otherwise, it's a really good idea and it can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29788	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29789	Of course, I'm replicating Mr. Marinkovic. Baldrick was always nice to me. I don't have a special reaction to that. So in one part you were saying making reference to my argument about the number of unions. I agree, unions should be representative, but then that rule should apply everywhere, so, let's say, they don't have a monopoly of two unions in places in the PIO Fund, in the Republic Fund, but they should be other unions that are very serious. Let's say, the Association of Free Independent Unions or others who meet that condition. But, as a consequence, to use that word, the ambitions of many authorities in the past to have their trade unions or to have their own unions one day has led to the emergence of a union scene and then to much less protect the rights of workers in unions who are eventually brought down to various other functions, almost never to what is the right function of the union. This is the result of such behavior. Your question was also – why from the position “The Railway”? Because it's possible to do it in the budget from this place. “Srbigas” does not have that kind of direct state grant, i.e. subsidies, and it is not possible to make such a savings. I hope that it is not disputed in the public that LDP has voted consistently against each budget for years and issue every guarantee to losers, such as "Serbiagas", "Galenika", "The Railways", etc. I remember the end of last year, we spent the last few hours of the Assembly sitting in the debate reading the financial reports "Srbigas". This was not controversial for the LDP, but the Railways are in relation to this position that exists in the budget as simple as created and as a demonstration exercise for how at this time with such relations in the ruling coalition there is no willingness to take such reform moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29790	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29791	Thank you. It's not a dispute. Of course we advocate that all trade unions that are relevant participate in social dialogue. But in order to participate in the work of the Social and Economic Council, the work of the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund and the National Employment Service, as my esteemed colleague knows very well, trade unions and employers' associations must be representative. There are clear legal norms and provisions, and no one has the right to introduce someone else into this process until it is proved by law to the Committee on Representativeness and Resort Ministry that it has this representativeness. It's the law, and we have to act accordingly. But, of course, I should and should support that we need to develop one practice, as I say, the liberal variants of social dialogue and attracting everyone into this social dialogue and more business associations and more union organisations and centrals, because we are in a very difficult economic situation, so we need this general consensus very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29792	Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29793	Mr. Marinkovic, but let's open up the question of how fair those rules are. You're talking about a 15% percentage. This is required by the unions, and political parties, some 5% censorship or the possibility of being on some common lists, so that even with the percentage far below, it is given the opportunity to represent itself in parliament. In the end, you have a situation today to have a debate, or some kind of negotiations on a future solution to the Labour Act, which is one of the most important laws that this country needs. Look at the behavior of different unions in that process. I think everyone has to be involved and that without that kind of agreement or awareness of the need for an agreement won't be able to be passed, nor to enforce that law, but you'll see that you have much more constructive, more realistic behaviour of those unions that you say don't have enough representativeness and completely blocking behavior of those who have this representativeness mostly based on momentum, on long-term practice. It's like that question to you about the Union of Pensioners of Serbia. When an alternative is offered to people, they tend to opt for the one in their interest. Unfortunately, our workers never in these 23 years, that I am not talking about the time before, have been given the opportunity to protect their interests in some normal broad context to choose a union organization that will belong to them. It has blocked many processes in this country. It blocked the process of developing a union organisation in the private sector, it completely deformed the market, and it all started the moment the workers were brought here to yell – arrest Vlasi. At that moment, a normal struggle for political rights, economic and social rights, and everything else was more important, and what we're talking about today is actually the last act of this disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29794	Thank you. You've expanded the subject. No more meaning for replicas. Mr. Jovanovic, you have applied for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29795	Mr. Minister, of course, there's no need for us to understand whether in this draft budget we see the potential for implementing reforms next year. But what is building on your conjecture and belief that you in the government who in this year and in part in the previous one, did not begin with these reforms. To come across the support to do something like that during 2014. It's simply not a question of your will. I don't even think it's a matter of government's willingness. Everyone in this society needs an agreement on solving such major problems. We're not obsessed with the public sector. We have never insisted on reforming pension policy because we have something against pensioners. Here we were, on the contrary, defending the right of someone to find a job in the public sector insisting on the withdrawal of members of the law that we are introducing to public sector employment. We agree he's bad. That's not controversial. There are objective reasons for something like that. I think they are present in this part of the public sector that can practically not work on commercial terms, whether we're talking about Belgrade public transport or we're talking about some drug factory that under the price has to sell drugs so the fund can pay for it. Finally, the gas itself. Why does so much understanding appear? To preserve these relationships that can be changed, if discussed openly. You're on your way to a very difficult job. Do you know of any economy ministers who have been successful without having previously reached an agreement with politicians and on the other hand, say, with the union? I've been holding negotiations on the Labour Act in 2001, and we've agreed in the end with the union. You know what's going to be a disaster? If the 2001 Labour Act is more concrete than today. You're talking about privatisation in a very bad way. You're generalizing. We didn't have a robbery privatisation. I can agree with you that there have been errors in privatisation, but all that holds this country today is a private sector, which built itself on that privatisation. We can't generalize like that. That's bad. The instruments of your work as Minister of Economy, it's the Development Fund, it's the SIEPA, it's the Deposit Insurance Agency, it's the Privatisation Agency. We all know numerous examples of mistakes. That's not controversial. Let's get rid of the mistakes. But you destroyed those institutions, or they feel that way. How are we going to work on the reforms next year, if no one else in this country, mention the licensing of the director of public enterprises? Even a commitment to finish some school, for example. I agree with the need for professionals. Maybe that's the way, I'm not gonna say it's not, that's what we need to talk about. But someone who needs to invest so much in himself, to get into a public company where his salary is limited, in which his hands are bound by politics, in which there is no elemental agreement on removing problems that are so large. The train in Serbia is not going 15km per hour, which is decided by the engineer or director of the Railways. I think that this director, who we care about, too, is very happy to drive TŽV in Serbia. So there are deeper problems than those that are in our focus right now. You are the Minister of Business, in your politics life must be the most pronounced. So when you talk about this, we don't need that kind of consent, we have it without the Assembly. We agree in some other places, no reforms, no bad work, but where is now that space that we're going to enter together to come to a solution? We don't see that. You're here as a representative of the government, there are no others, and that's why we're talking to you about it now. Do we want to raise our machinery industry? Well, how are we going to get jobs in this country if we've destroyed it? Who's gonna build a new block in Kostolic? I don't mean anything bad about the Chinese construction industry, but Kostolac made the "Energoproject", the remont did "Feromont" they can only stand behind barbed wire today and watch Chinese workers who came there, who make a new block of thermoelectric power plants with the obligation to practically move Chinese technology there, to get spare parts from China. So now we don't have a maneuvering space for the development of our machine industry. If we're talking about the agrarian, he's ruined us. He's ruined. In every segment. Do you know what the profit rate is in agriculture? It's practically gone now. Dinar interest, 24% to 28%. Today we heard you were talking about the guarantee fund we're going to talk about here, 12 billion, and we're going to put pressure on the banks together, I don't think you're going to do it alone. I don't care about the bank for any minister, but we politicians if we agree and say -- we want to influence the bank's interest policy now. How are we going to lose a billion euros in the last month alone? Without a billion, right? Four companies shot him down by a billion, 920 million, and everything that came in the meantime. Net capital total of three billion and 500 million. Who's gonna put down those interest rates? It won't go down, it'll go up. In those conditions we'll meet tomorrow, let's talk about it, twelve billion 120 million euros. That's 20 ambitious loans from a medium-sized company. That's not enough, but I'm not saying we should throw away what we have at the beginning. We've had these attempts and we haven't worked. So we have to work it out. We can't be a factor that together, so we politicians can't be a factor that further destabilises this society. There is no plan, and that is the essence of Bojan Đuric and his amendment. We don't see a plan here, so not only is that in this budget there's no potential for next year's reforms. There is no plan that will give you the right, and we agree with you. There is no reform in 2014, but in that year we will define a vision that will take place in 2015. How? We'll have elections, some other government will come, then the government will say don't ask, it was Radulovic, as you say Dinkic did, and Dinkic was somewhere else before that, and before that there was someone third. Nobody cares about that anymore. IDs. We all know it's chaos, but it's your problem, it can't be a national issue. Finish it. As someone who wants to buy from you a restructuring company, believe me, I don't need any of your ID cards. I'll hire myself a company that will assess and tell me what it is I have to pay for. I guess we'll agree on that. They are important to you to hear me, yourself in this business, and those businesses that you do business with, but that can't be the subject of the whole society. Now let's see where there's room to settle because these are issues that go beyond the usual position we're in opposition so we should look forward to breaking your policy. I don't see any use for that at least for our party. It means that tomorrow there will be even more chaos than what is today and that even less people will be able to understand such a complicated policy that we want to implement. Why is she complicated? Because we're going to be in debt for six billion, we're going to have a budget deficit of 7.1%, because it's the signals of a society that isn't only able to sustain itself, because ten years ago we wrote off two-thirds of the debt, and now we're at 65%. These are serious questions. I think that they are not just directed at you, but that we need, not a guarantee – I give you my word, but simply where you see space for it to happen next year. When? January, February, March? It's late. By March, everyone's in Belgrade. There may be republican elections, and then three months later, until the government is made and gone in 2014. When's that gonna happen? If we'd all stepped behind that deal and said whoever was in power was going to be doing this, it would have meant something.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29796	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29797	The fact is that we are in a very difficult state and that it is the consequence of not doing so in the last ten years, not taking reform, not worrying about businesses both in restructuring and in public enterprises. It all came at the same time. So I don't think there's any reason to argue on any basis. We've identified several areas that are crucial to change this situation. I do not agree that ID cards are not important and I think that they are important to customers, that financial reports, i.e. balances that are purely important for the successful privatisation of every investor, everywhere in the world, so I see no reason why this would not be important in Serbia as well. It's very important for you to know what your obligations are, to know what can wait for you later, as you probably know for yourself, because there have been a lot of privatisations that have only later started to come up with commitments that have never been made. It's very important that you have a clean condition. It's important that we finally break off our irresponsible behavior and this is a social issue, not only the interior theme of the ministry, because I think it's extremely important, because the next step, or the same approach, is applied to public enterprises, and I think, afterwards, to all state institutions. One such approach must be valid everywhere. Every state authority should run some tests, have some programs, know what it has. It is necessary to make a list of the assets of the Republic of Serbia, and we haven't done it in years and in 2014 it will have to happen. The problem with privatisation, I stay here with my claims, since it is generalization, but when it comes to most, then I think generalization is appropriate. Of course, there are examples of successful privatisations, and of course that's a sign, if you do things according to the good rules transparently, that society has a benefit, because all of this should be a voice for privatisation, not for privatisation, but not for the grounds on which we worked, on the grounds that we didn't know what the value of the property was, where we hid fair market value, where the building land in a large number of cases was hidden the right to use, estimated at zero, etc. It's caused a lot of damage in society. The result of such privatisation is that after workers in these companies lose their jobs, because whoever bought it did not buy it because of the company's activity, but bought it for land. If we wanted to sell land, we should've done it. Part of this whole analysis that we're doing with ID cards is we're going to separate something that is investment property from something that's basic activity, so that this privatisation gives us the effects that we need. The effect we need is not filling the budget, but setting up a system that will give us economic growth. The only economic growth behind it is the growth of employment and the overall improvement of society. The postponement of this obligation and of something that I think is perfectly soundly reasonable, to determine what we have, how valuable it is, to make privatisation the way it suits society, and the goal is economic growth and employment. Without this step, I don't think what we've been doing in the past few years has cost us a lot. In some areas, reforms have been made and I think the budgets of some ministries are different from what they were so far. The fact is that in some other areas, let's say from this amendment that you submitted, that is, your party, points out and I think that this amendment is more of a message that within the Railways, restructuring is not done, that we don't have a good social protection system and that we have to deal with these things. That part supports it, but it has to be done integrally, it can't be done in just one place, so I think it's an obligation to do so in 2014. Will this policy be successful or not? We will measure this in 2014, or I expect that we will address the issue of restructuring of 153 companies, that we will go further, because there is another 419 in privatisation there, that we will solve a big problem that we have on the budget side as well, and that I am not talking about how this subsidized system generates and indifference in the economy, generates a poisoned market where it is done on unequal terms and will make it a major shift. Of course, that's the first step, or that's one problem we have to solve. The other companies are public enterprises, we're on our way to sorting out the situation, and I expect this problem to be attacked in 2014. I think tax reform, social system reform, the universal social protection system is important, and this budget doesn't reflect it, because these steps are not made. I expect to make them in 2014. About the dialogue, we have raised some difficult issues, and we probably all know that the issue of change is a difficult issue in every society and that there are strong resistances when you haven't solved problems for years, and then that leads you to the situation we're in today. Some institutions have been informed, or reforming them, those that do not function, have produced poor results, we end and I think it is the establishment of an institution of the system. The institution you mentioned, the Privatisation Agency, was a pierced institution, which did not make decisions on its own, but worked directly on the warrant from the political side. It will no longer be possible and the minister will no longer do such things. So the Agency itself will have to operate, that is, to work in accordance with the law, to make decisions in accordance with the law, and the ministry's job is to oversee the agency. A large number of problems, they all came to collect at the same time and administrative capacity both the government and the whole state weren't big enough to be able to overcome all the problems at once, but we have to go as per priority. The first priority we put companies into restructuring, and then the public enterprises and these other systems are coming, and we will open these topics in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29798	I must remind all the participants and your ministers and MPs that this is not a debate in principle. This is a debate on specific amendments. We are practically having a debate now in principle, and we have expanded the subject widely. I will remind you, in the light of the amendment proposal, and the proposed amendment requires a reduction of subsidies aimed at "the Railways" of Serbia and a grant to the National Employment Service, thus being granted additional funding by the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund. You can therefore conclude yourself that the debate under this amendment has come out of the subject matter of the content of the amendment itself, and I ask you to focus your discussion on the amendment. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica. Here you go. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29799	Mr. Minister, I'm absolutely ready to, for who knows which time, pay the price for me and the party, because we don't have a general opinion. I'll tell you that you have a great delusion of individuals and the way the Privatisation Agency functioned. I don't think it's bad that the agency, if it had anything to do with the government. It's impossible to do privatisation without it. It's another issue of abuse. The others before you, they were even much more critical of the Agency. I'll only tell you one example. In prison, a woman who managed the Privatisation Monitoring Centro controlled respect for her commitments. Talk to every serious businessman in Serbia about her, I won't say her name, and you'll hear what I'm about to tell you. The most conscious person we've ever met in our lives. She ended up in prison for Azotara, although she could in no way affect the export of equipment from Azotara, which was never used, was not mounted, sold to a foreign buyer, money entered the country. Pure pulsism and demagogy. The Privatisation and Privatisation Act, I left the government in 2003, was a donor conference in Brussels that discussed new tranches of helping Serbia through an analysis of what we did from 2001 to 2003. Look, you're asking the government to tell you what the conclusions were at that donor conference. Voucher privatisation, Russian privatisation is unacceptable... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29800	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Guric? (Boyan Djuric, from the post: Can I speak on my amendment? I'm just asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29801	You'll certainly take care of it. You have read the reasons correctly, and I thank you for that. You've opened up one more important question, Minister. I think you're repeating the classic mistake of some who led these sectors before you or, for example, led the country when they tried in such a superficial way to reconcile two principles, that message or the feeling that justice or that privatisation must be just and, on the other hand, a surprise that it was not economically efficient in us, in some cases. It is in some, but Mr Jovanovic has already told you about it. Now I've seen a very big delusion, which the last Government or the previous President of the Republic had, and that's the idea of that terribly valuable land or real estate, primarily land, which was estranged in a cheap way in the privatisation process, and now we're going to introduce a conversion, someone's going to have to pay for it, and that's going to correct the alleged mistake. That didn't happen. First, with the vast majority of companies you're talking about, someone would buy it at a slightly higher price and make the same profit, the same profit, let's say, at a real estate store. No one's reported in the first place. This means that a huge number of these companies, these companies, in economic terms, either on exhale or long ago, have failed. It is not only bad or necessary for property, i.e. land, property that had this company to enter in some way, that economic life and political and economic reforms had run from 2004 to 2012, while some production would have been done, some provision of services for which these properties would be used. The problem is that at the worst moment, when the economic crisis exploded, and the reforms haven't been implemented in years, which has reached a populist pace, and it's all completely destroyed. That's why Belgrade can't go down to the rivers, because the state or the different level and the state by nature of things can't lead and do it, and she's always kind of wrong and sorry, dreaming of someone else getting rich instead of her, if someone's doing it in private. As a result, this is what the banks of the rivers in Belgrade look like, which is why it looks more or less like all of the semi-forsaken former factory fields across Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29802	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29803	I don't have any problem with the private sector working and there's no problem with the private sector making a profit. I think it's natural and that the whole economy and society should be based on it. However, these examples that have been given so much come out of economic logic, i.e. They're so out of the economic account that I think we should talk about them the way I talked about them. Of course, there are cases where the economic account is okay, what you were saying, of course, is no problem with them. However, there are examples that fully emerge from any equivalent of giving, which is the basic principle of bonding relations, and that was mostly on the burden of the state. I think it's caused a lot of negative consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29804	Mr. Djuric, do you want a replica? Boyan Djuric, from the post: Yes. No, I won't allow you any more replicas. You've really come out of the picture compared to the amendment. Mr. Jovanovic, replica? (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: I am reporting as an authorised representative. ) The first word is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29805	In some things, I disagree with Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, but I must say he was absolutely right here. What are the cards of failed businesses going to be made in the first place, like "14. October’ or ‘Fapa’, IMT, IMR? Why don't you explain to us what the point is? I understand that it is necessary to have clear EPS balances, Telekom Srbija. So, “14. October," it doesn't matter if it has one ton or ten tons of dubiosis. Whoever ever wants to enter and invest there will be asked of the state. It doesn't matter at all that you're going to be identifying accounting precisely now that there are 5.6 tons of dubiosis in there. Not a serious investor, not a single dubiosis. "Fiat" didn't ask for a flag ID card at all. "Etihad" did not ask for JAT's ID card. They knew that the flag had debts, they knew that JAT had debts. They said put your debts aside, otherwise we won't come. If you want us to come, invest, make healthy and serious companies, we don't care about past debts. It's a waste of time. The establishment of the accounting balance sheet of the restructuring company makes sense only in these public undertakings. All that data, I don't know if you're acting crazy, I don't know what you're doing to the public in these two months, there are. If you don't believe those data on the Privatisation Agency site, then the ministry should pay an authorised auditor to make an independent audit, not to expect from the Kraljevo Car Factory, where workers haven't received their salary for six months, that they will now, according to international accounting standards, list supplies, claims, and there they are frozen in halls without heating. So your job is to make a good economic system, not to fool the public with a job that doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29806	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29807	I have to admit that I find it strange to claim that she cleans the balances, that you know what assets you have, what is the value of that property, what are the obligations, that it's not important to restructure the company. When the state needs to take over certain obligations, you have to have calculations that are obligations and the way you're going to do it. You can't do that without a good balance. To complete this procedure, to have clean companies, which will then be good for investors, you have to do your homework. The domestic task for each management, for each company, is that it has clear balances, that it has good lists and that it makes business plans for next year. That's exactly what we're doing. The results of this job will be seen in 2014. I think this is one key thing, a key part of host behavior, that when we finish that part and get clean companies, we're going to give them support afterwards, but it's going to be healthy, on a healthy basis, and that's why we're going to achieve the success that we expect. We expect to find good investors for a large number of companies and to place them on healthy feet during 2014. Years ago, we've treated these companies recklessly. They're completely abandoned, which has led us to the situation we're in. I think it's over and we can't act so irresponsiblely anymore. And is the plan and the program that we've imagined, that we're implementing, whether it's going to be successful or not, it's going to show in 2014. It won't really be necessary to wait for years, five or ten years, to see if this policy is successful or not. We'll see about that in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29808	Gentlemen, I will no longer be giving replicas. Anyone who wants can speak by amendment. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29809	Mr. Chairman, there is no order in the Assembly that depends on your personal will. So there is a Rules of Procedure and there is a very clear definition of the right of MPs to seek replication. Please, don't make a goat congregation out of this now. I was mentioned by the president of the URS parliamentary group, and I answered the line. If you insist, I'll talk about the amendment, but then this isn't the Assembly. Then it's a matter of my respect for your age and it doesn't matter. You decide what you want and I won't make a problem of it. No one can mind this debate. This is life, these people are interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29810	Please, do you want to discuss the amendment or not? Why are you defending Mr Dinkic? Dinkic can react by hurting the Rules of Procedure. Don't defend him. He's capable enough to defend himself. I also told you before this that we had come out of the agenda topic treated by the amendment. So, if you want, you can talk about this amendment by tomorrow, you're wasting your time, but I can't give you a replica because you're out of the agenda theme. It's my right, according to the Rules of Procedure. You define yourselves now. Either you speak by amendment, at the expense of your MP's time, or you'll give up the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29811	Mr. Vice President, it's now up to me to comply with your law and your Rules of Procedure. Why do you allow yourself so much?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29812	Mr. Jovanovic, you must comply with the Rules of Procedure, not my right. And I respect the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is my express right to give someone the right to a replica or not. You know that well. I let you talk an hour past the agenda. You're having a principle debate. It's on the amendment agenda here now. He's a part of the agenda. You went to the Restructure Agency and I don't know what you didn't mention anymore. So, I said we're done with the replica, but if you want, you can talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29813	I certainly think that wasting time is at all an effort to explain to you that here we cannot do as you wish, but as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. This is a decent debate. We're talking to the Minister normally. No ugly word, no unpleasant tone, nothing that could bother anyone. These are vital issues of life. And of course one amendment to the LDP, MP Bojan Đuric, requesting a cost cut for some public enterprises produced this debate. But I think she's also useful to us. So a few topics here, Mr. Radulovich, remain open. First, I agree that it's important that you know that it's someone of your interest. But why is this job done that way? You made the decision to convert debts owned by the state. And how are you going to do that when these companies' debts are 750m euros higher than their permanent capital? It's impossible to do. How are you gonna do that? These enterprises in restructuring, we had two economy ministers for the past 12 years, Aleksandr Vlahovic and Mladjan Dinkic. We criticised Dinkic for not talking too much about it. Some things we supported, there were too many party policies and party interests, and not only his, on certain initiatives, but let him carry his burden. And you're here now. Everything else was experiments. We can't afford what you say. Let's see if it works, so if it doesn't work, then what do we do? We've come to an end. It's got to work. Understand this extremely well-intentioned. You have no right to fail. Then how are we going to “14. ” October", in that oily one next to "14. October" in Kruševec? How are we going to go to Iron? How are we going to go to Mine? How are we gonna get to Preboy in March of the month? How? Do you know how they solved the matter of health care? Not by having their books certified, but by getting a letter from the government to the health center and health center in Priboj – receive these from Priboj even though they are not certified health books. And if he's supposed to go into the Uzica exam, then he can't go to the Uzica exam. It's not a solution, it's an emergency. Come on, you have no right to fail. So, your I.D. - your right. You can do it any way you want. You know where you're wrong? You're wrong to say that the Development Fund was a bad institution that caused damage and that there I don't know how many hundreds of people operate with I don't know how many hundreds or thousands of credits. You hire more people if you think they'll work more efficiently. But when we talk about NPL, they exist in the banking sector as well. How many are there? You said yourself in London how big they are. Not much smaller than this. So that's not the development fund's problem. The Development Fund is your instrument to help those who work under such abnormal conditions. Turn off the politics. Secure the funds you give, but don't cut yourself off the only instrument you have. Export Insurance Agency – the only instrument you have at this time to help export and export growth in Serbia. If someone's promoted badly, don't destroy the agency. Find someone who can do it better. If the Privatisation Agency, in your opinion, had a political relationship with the government, and then you have to understand the impossible, you in your business won't be successful without that political relationship. That's all the questions. The private sector? Well, he depends on you, on your actions. What we're asking to delete from the budget, that's what the private sector gives. I can talk about a lot of topics. I can talk about agrarian and energy. These are Serbia's development potentials, right? In this country, no one thinks of the collapse of our oil industry. Nobody deals with the fact that 30,000 hectares of wheat were sown less than last year, that it is now wheat 22-23 dinars, that it is mass exports from the country, because it is the only way to quickly charge those who produced it and bought it and thus covered the money they invested and reduced the damage. These are all the problems you need to solve. We won't get anywhere with attitudes and grades – it was robbery, privatisation. Get to the ground? You know what, you're going to buy something yourself, so you're looking to buy better and cheaper. What do we do? That we have factories 500 meters from downtown Belgrade? - Should we build elevators? Well, who else does that? It was a chance to develop Belgrade. If you want to check out the privatisation law because you think someone should be prevented...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29814	Mr. Jovanovic, you've wasted your group's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29815	No, you spent three minutes on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29816	I've extended your time. You had six minutes, and now you're in eight minutes. I'll give you one more minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29817	This is our only chance to talk to you. When we discussed in principle, you were somewhere else. You spoke briefly here and left. That's why we're talking so wide now in certain moments. I think your concept, Mr. Radulovich, is wrong and you have to correct it. We've criticised Dinkic so much, but we're another party. We're looking for votes. We'll get his and his from the past election and we'll get some, but you'll have to put what's good in focus. Everything is dark in Serbia. If those companies failed, is there anyone who works? Show us, take this man out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29818	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29819	I'm not gonna advertise this, I'm Bojan Đuric, I'm not Bojana Đuric, but it's less important. So, Article 27. Rules of Procedure. First of all, you haven't returned the time you took for Mr. Jovanovic and the LDP. Secondly, we have done everything, Mr. Arsenovic, to have this debate normally run and have been very polite in it. We didn't react to the insurgence and throw below each level. I'm not going to repeat here and quote what they're getting, let's say in the past few minutes, the MPs of a parliamentary group sitting in the last rows in this room. What are these insults? Because it's not an expression of weakness for us, it's really been a unique opportunity to talk about this. You cannot be so different as to interpret the right to a replica and as long as the debate, in particular on budgetary amendments, is allowed to go, independent of some other people who chair this Assembly or lead the working bodies. We discussed four or five hours yesterday at the Finance Committee on the widest round of issues in this budget. Some of these topics we're trying to talk to the Minister about here today, we opened yesterday. No one was unhappy, everyone, Mr. Arsenovic was pleased to participate. I don't know why you're always looking at the congregation or the Members of the People as someone who comes here or kills time, so we're in a terrible hurry, so you're trying to get the debate done as quickly as possible, or as someone who's coming for the incident. We're talking about the last days when it's possible to start some talks and agree how the country doesn't fail and I believe that you and we have interests in that, and anyone who watches, those who vote for us, those who don't vote in the election. It's the highest interest of this country, Mr. Arsenovic. Then why are you making trouble for about a few minutes and applying the Rules of Procedure in such a petty way? That's my commercial.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29820	I'm asking you to officially initiate an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I'll also accept that everyone here gets time and let them talk about whatever they want, I have nothing against it. But the Rules of Procedure say nicely that the speaker is obliged to speak only of the agenda. I've tolerated this so far. Don't ask me, now the others will react because I don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. Boyan Djuric, from the post: No. He will. Don't talk in advance. It is my duty to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you not to ask me to do anything that is not intended by the Rules of Procedure. We've heard here that someone is asking that you can talk about whatever you want during the debate. Maybe that's a good thing, but change the Rules of Procedure. I didn't bring it. It was brought by the congregation majority. Don't ask me what isn't prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. You signed up again, Mr. Guric. I don't know if that's a mistake. (Bojan Djuric, from the scene: I highly doubt it is a mistake. ) The word has Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29821	Just for a little while. We ran the wrong policy. A new policy has been conceived and this policy is based on the things I've been talking about. Some of the instruments we've run in politics we think were wrong, some of them need to be fixed, some of them need to be eliminated because they don't give results. On that basis, we made a plan for 2014. Focus are again enterprises in restructuring that we need to put on healthy feet. In 2014 we should focus on public enterprises. We are also dealing with MPL, the Development Fund, an analysis is being carried out, and there will be a change of policy, that is, the way that this means to be used. We think the results we've had so far are bad and we need to change the use of that asset. Otherwise, the whole approach is that we don't need to build a financing system next to a banking system, but we need to make the banking system efficient and meet that function, not that the state's trying to say -- your banking system doesn't work, there are interest rates too high, and then we need to pump everything through development funds and such institutions. So that analysis was made, we took some views, they're reflected in the budget, let's say the Ministry of Industry and we'll do it in 2014. Of course, when I said it was going to be checked in 2014, it doesn't express my suspicion that we won't be successful, away from that, I think we'll be successful in 2014, but I'm leaving that on the record. They will assess the entire public including parties in the opposition. In what we have achieved, we will see whether politics is successful or not. It's also important that as long as we follow, if we see early signs that politics doesn't work, we need to react quickly, so we're not in a situation where years go by we don't change anything and we end up in the situation we're in today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29822	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29823	Very short. I don't think you understand the point. You are constantly calling on your right to give an absolutely discreet replica. I'm telling you, it's not your right to do business and it's never been a practice, especially when it comes to budget debate. Then you're trying to guess what some other MPs might be looking for. Now I'm telling you, and I'm done. I'm sure the MPs or the vast majority of SNS MPs wouldn't have asked. We talk here about what they speak of, or at least a part of those who guide them today. I know some people here in the O.R. I'm sure of it, for example. Mrs Tomic is not protesting, but taking part in the debate. If there is someone who does not enjoy, or who does not understand this, I think that these problems will be solved in the next few weeks, but do not make it impossible for the congregation to have a serious discussion. This is the most serious question right now, Mr. Arsenovic. As you apply the Rules of Procedure, it means you should have interrupted the minister while he was speaking now and told him not to talk about the subject. I don't think that's the case. I think you should talk this way, but why are you spoiling the debate? It'd be over by now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29824	Mr. Djuric, you're a lawyer, and I'm still going to have to read you article 104. "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, citing his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So he's misreading. The whole time there's been agreement of the Minister with your views. ‘... The MP referred to in paragraph 1 shall first have a replica.’ Item 2: "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, it has the right to replicate the president of the parliamentary group. “ The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. ” About using. Should I read it again? Please don't put me in a position... You now want to adapt the Rules of Procedure or the right to replicating your understanding, and you are a lawyer. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. You can ask... Here, look. [[Applause in the O.R.]] Do you have confirmation? Please don't discuss it. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29825	Mr. Minister, I really listen very carefully to you, not only because I'm personally interested, but because I'm constantly in a circle of people asking me to clarify some of your views, government policies, some answers. You said that your business priorities are restructuring and public enterprises. This country stands thanks to the private sector. The private sector paid the price of the wrong policy, but found it within the framework of the state and support within individual institutions, including the Development Fund. When you say you're going to change it and it's going to fund major infrastructure projects in the future, if I understand you correctly, it's one of your announcements, what will the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, do? We have almost a billion dollars approved for infrastructure, three billion, but we don't withdraw them because there are no projects, and I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, why don't you apply the criteria by which KFT works, the German version of the Development Fund? What do you mean where he's going to be, where we can find a capital at a price equal to, say, the profit rate we have next year? In dinars, I said, this year from 24% to 28%, in the euro sign seven and a half, if you're lucky, 10 and over 10 for most. I personally watched a businessman's loan with an effective interest rate of 44% in the euro sign.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29826	Time, Mr. Jovanovic, and I definitely end up with a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29827	You have to act to help.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29828	The word has Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29829	Right, I forgot the part that when I mentioned public enterprises and enterprises in restructuring, that's the problem of the state that we're solving and the big source of deficits and budget problems we have. As far as the private sector is concerned, there's a focus to get to a lower interest rate. We think the guarantee fund is the way to get rid of it. We've had a lot of discussions on this subject and with relevant international institutions and in fact the money we've allocated, these 12 billion, should serve as a guarantee for some billion euros that should come from bank funds, for which this part of the funds would be a guarantee. It's done in detail and will be published as soon as this process is completed. I expect somewhere early next year to go with that. We also have a project on financing innovative actions, where again instead of directly investing in companies, we want to create this financial infrastructure that will make investments and the state has allocated funds to attract such funds, since we have a market fair, a part of the market that does not work and we are looking for market mechanisms to solve this problem and it needs to cover some investment in capital, which banks do not deal with. The third thing that is extremely important is the overall business environment, from the legislation in which the guillotine regulations, a series of regulations that are wrong and bad and which counter the effects of those we wanted, and this is some set of reforms that we will implement in 2014 that is aimed at the private sector. One measure still adopted by the government, and I've talked a lot about it, is a reduction in the tax burden. I think that part is very important and we'll talk about it in early 2014. It's not in the budget right now, but I think it is, not only in the ministry's view, but also in the opinion of all business associations in Serbia, one of the key problems of our economy and, together with the Law on the Labour of the Grey Economy Generator. This is some kind of beauty of the key priorities that we are dealing with and which we will be dealing with in 2014. Of course there's a set of other measures, but it's already going into detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29830	According to the amendment, he has the word Vuceta Toskovic. Please take care of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29831	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak specifically of the amendment. I do not agree and it is good that we have not accepted this amendment, which proposed not to mention the name, for the simple reason that every country sees to do better when it comes to rail and road and any other traffic and social and any other giving. I do not agree with the fact that these funds are being bargained from one item to the other because all countries in Europe are giving meaning to every traffic, both road and rail. We are behind Europe for about 50 years when it comes to rail traffic. That's one thing, except for the water traffic, from the cheapest traffic, and it's not bad that we took out loans to improve rail traffic. When it comes to the balances of all companies, I don't see any reason why anyone says we can't draw the line and that the Railway has that, that and that and that and that this director or anyone else knows what he's got and how he's going to have those resources and people. So the state needs to know what's in its possession when it comes to the entire economy. I don't see any reason to criticise it because the minister wants to draw a line and see which company has the means, what resources they have, which can be available, how to sell at favourable prices and do so. It is good, therefore, that this amendment has not been accepted and there will be more amendments that will not be accepted by the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29832	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29833	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I'm not answering for the line, but for the amendment. I just wanted to supplement something for all MPs that the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has sent a request to the Ministry of Economy to get a list of all the users of the Development Fund, all the users of the funds that went through the SIEP and to see what the competences of the institutions that have so far worked so that in a transparent way MPs of all the parliamentary groups would be to know who did what. We think it would be nice for the Minister's board to come to that session and personally explain it to us from a to. Therefore, these newly created proposals of the privatisation and bankruptcy law should be one excuse because it is up to us to see the results of the work of all these institutions that the ministry currently stands at the point of view that perhaps their way of functioning should be reorganised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29834	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29835	I listened very carefully. He did not tolerate it because he thinks that the "Serbs of Serbia" subsidy can be abolished, but as a warning of the need to complete the railway reform because we are all aware that even these 110m euros are not enough for the Railways to work, and it is irrelevant whether we set out in the 110 or 50 or 150 budget, it will spend more 250m euros than it does in this current state before reforming it. That was years ago. That'll be this year, so we don't fool ourselves. If we don't get out of the budget, then we'll cut off the suppliers, which is worse. That's why I don't support that amendment. But I support the need, and I think it is the intensity of the amendment to complete the reform on "Serb Railways", in addition to what it was to the managing authority of the "Serb Railways", when it comes to the Assembly, these decisions have been made. Why haven't they been implemented yet? I don't know. At the very least, we are bound by the Law on Railways, which implies the need for the infrastructure to be outside "The Railway of Serbia" i.e. a special enterprise whose business plan or infrastructure development plan this assembly adopts a five-year plan. This is being removed from the railway and government bodies. This parliament will adopt what is necessary for the development of railway infrastructure and what funds these are and how they will be provided. Otherwise, I have to be completely honest and make a personal impression on the issue, that, in parallel with the reform, it is necessary to immediately seek out a strategic travel partner, as it was done with JAT. If we don't do it right now, we're waiting for the karma to function on its own. freight traffic, to make it clearer, we're going to get into a situation where we have losses like in JAT and then we're looking for strategic partners, and then we're not going to be helped by the company's personal cards, or anything because we're going to have to take on debt again, or we're going to make a full cut and make a serious reform, or we're going to be doing this in the budget every year -- whether these funds or they need railways, and I'm telling you that we need 250 million in the current state of functioning of the railway, not 110. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29836	Thank you. Parliamentarians Konstantin Samofalov and Milan Mirasavljevic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Radmila Gerov submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29837	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, when we look at the total income and income, as well as the expenditures and expenditures provided for in Article 1 for next year, then it is quite clear and it can be seen that there is no optimism, no vision and plan of this government for the coming year. The amendment I have submitted concerns the allocation of 200 million dinars for the financing of project-technical documentation for the construction of Corridor East and the reduction would take place from the current budget reserve. If the government had a vision and a plan, if this government were not a trom, it would be monitoring developments in the EU. In August of this year, the European Commission established a new network of corridors. The new network envisions nine corridors and Corridor 4, which passes through Bulgaria and Romania, is of greater importance than the 10 that passes through Serbia. The European Commission and the EU have defined 26 billion euros for the period from 2014 to 2020 to finance railway infrastructure routes, for those shares of new roads that combine two corridors and are located near the port. Corridor East isn't much of a newspaper. The corridor and the plan have been known since 2006, and it was planned to operate from 2008 to 2012. In order for the state, ministers, to compete with the EU, it must have project documentation and this country needs a new traffic development strategy. This government can't be a trom. We have an existing strategy, and unfortunately it's overcome. Time has run over, it has run over the European Commission's decision. The only question now is: does the state want to get money from the EU and enter a project to build Corridor East that, apart from road traffic, includes rail traffic, or does it not want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29838	Thank you. The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29839	As in all cases, the question is, since there are a lot of infrastructure needs and a great need to finance it, it directly affects public debt and then there was a question, in which we are, where our deficit is at the level at which it is a really difficult financial situation, was a matter of priorities, including the priority of this project. Focus was on those projects we can implement next year, and that project set was chosen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29840	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Radmil Gerov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29841	It is clear to me that the state has a great deficit, as I understand it, and that this government is not ready. You said that next year you do not foresee major reforms, at least reforms are not foreseen by this budget, but that you will only see how you will reform and all those that have not been back in the past 10 years. But if we don't do the project documentation for that trip now, the funds that are defined for 2014, those funds will be taken by someone else. It will not be used by the state of Serbia. All transit, ministers, is currently going through Romania and Bulgaria, linked to Western European countries, as the Kalafat Bridge – Vidin is over. The state already has 40% reduced transit due to this Corridor 4. This way, I'd be joined by Corridor 10 and Corridor 4. No one's asking the state to finance the construction of that corridor. It's clear to me that the state doesn't have any money for it. It is also clear to me that the state can allocate funds from the current budget reserve to finance the project documentation and these are not large funds, regardless of the large deficit this country has, large funds for the state. I think it is the priority of all municipalities in eastern Serbia. This is the priority of four districts and 13 municipalities, and yet those citizens living there contribute to the revenues of the budget, and also from those citizens, from what they single out for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, are allocated funds for losers, e.g. "Srbigas", and we don't use something like that in eastern Serbia at all. If the state really tolerates certain public enterprises, write off their debts, then I believe that we from eastern Serbia have the right, which is also of importance for the whole country, because you will return transit to Serbia, and this way transit goes completely through Romania, Bulgaria and we lose income on this basis for the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29842	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29843	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, according to Mr. Lazar Krstic, the finance minister, this budget should be a budget that should be on the spending side to have as little cost as possible, so as not to have as little budget deficit as possible. However, we, trying to find those places or those items that are quite reduced compared to previous budgets or budget rebalances, on the dissipated side, were able to come up with one of the most convenient items, when we talk about savings and cost cuts, which is an item of expenditure for the use of services and for the purchase of certain goods. In the proposal for this budget, the figure is 96,144,506,000 dinars. These are phone costs, the cost of renting property and business space, and I believe you also know that many of our agencies and public enterprises give hundreds of thousands of euros for monthly or annual leases of business space, and besides, we have state space where they can be placed. These are travel costs, representation costs, financing of various commissions, office materials, gasoline, etc. Of course, most of these costs have been increased in proportion to the increase in the number of public sector employees, which in previous years, we have had the opportunity to hear here for days, since we are discussing the budget, increased, since the number of public sector employees has also increased. Since it's the most real place, and we all know from private life that it can, and also from some of our places where we were in the local government, it's the most we can save. That is why we have proposed by amendment that the 96 billion dinar item be reduced by 20 million dinars and that the amount be transferred to the Development Fund or to speed up young talent. We should not particularly stress how important it is for young people, successful people and those who want to finish and who are very talented, to speed up new scholarships and allow them to study, if not here, aside, but to return to us here, among other things, as Minister Krstic returned. Therefore, we simply start from the assumption that a healthy nation, and this should be our most important task, in addition to that, the second assumption is that an educated nation should be our second important task, and for those reasons, wherever we could, we tried to, by reducing costs where we consider to be irrationally high, to move to the Development Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29844	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mladjan Dinkic. The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29845	The President-in-Office, Minister, this amendment is crucial to correcting the budget and vice versa, the rejection of this amendment shows in fact that the government does not have a serious plan to stop the budget deficit. What's this about? We have suggested that the government enters an aggressive early repayment of expensive loans, because without it, all spending reduction measures are completely in vain. If the cost of interest in the budget was 14 billion dinars in 2008, and next year there will be as many as 114 billion dinars, which is three times the total agrarian budget and 20 times the total increase in the culture budget, and then in 2015 there will reach 135 billion dinars, then the question arises – what are all these small, tiny measures to increase VAT, to reduce wages, to limit pensions, when all these savings suddenly eat the exponential costs of interest payments? So, no government, not this one, not any future one, has a chance of stabilising the budget, unless one really brave move is decided, which is to pay at least 2.5 billion euros in early-to-earth loans. We've given such an amendment. You planned zero privatisation incomes here. If you look at the structure of the budget, the privatisation revenues are zero. So you're not planning any revenue from privatisation, which suggests that there is no government reform orientation that some are talking about. On the other hand, there is not even a strategy on how to move forward, because 2015 will not bring any better, when only on the basis of interest by 21 billion will the cost rise in that year. So, in six, seven, eight months, again, someone's gonna be looking for extra belt tightening, extra pay cuts and pensions, and an extra tax hike. One way to stop it is to attack the third-rate budget item this year, which is interest on expensive loans. What do we propose to repay? It should end completely with the payment of the London Club of Trustees. When I was a finance minister, we paid half, about $400 million this spring. It should pay off the other $400 million next spring. However, the highest cost of interest comes to domestic loans, they are the most expensive, as the previous government has borrowed from banks operating on the Serbian market on extremely high interest rates. About 216 billion dinars of such domestic loans and securities of value should be paid off. Serbia's Eurobonds in 2021 should also be paid prematurely, as they bear a 7.25 per cent interest per year. In addition, part of the expensive debts "Srbigas", JAT and Galenike should be returned prematurely, as they carry a margin of over 60%. If that's not done, this whole day-long debate doesn't make any sense, because the cost of interest and entering the so-called. The debt slavery will undo all these results. Given that the government has rejected this, I would say the key amendment of the United Regions of Serbia to the budget, we actually understand that the government has no concept of how to reduce the budget deficit. Because it might not be a big problem that the 7.1 deficit in the world next year if there's a plan to cut it, but it can't be based every year on wage and pension limits, tax hikes, and it doesn't attack the credit payout item. Why aren't the loans being paid off? Because the government must not go to the boldest extent to sell the property it uses unproductively and to use it to pay off credit, because politicians believe that, if done, the people will not see it. If 2.5 billion euros are given to pay off the loan, politicians are thinking -- that's not what the people see. But without it, there's no end in cutting wages and pensions and there's no end in tightening holes on the belt. Once again, I urge the government to reconsider and enter the early payment of expensive loans next year. Two and a half billion euros saves us 500m euros per year permanently. Because instead of spending in 2015 on interest rates of 136 billion, it would be 85 billion and then that space could be used to invest more in agriculture, industry, infrastructure and everything else. This way, the exponential growth of interest eats all the effort, not just of this government, but of any other that wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29846	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29847	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would support this amendment. But as a farmer, as they say, and I'm proud of that, I have a dilemma since the government has responded that possible privatisation revenues will try to pay off some debt prematurely, if I understand very well why the amendment has been rejected, so I agree that the government is given a chance, and accepts the amendment that the promoter of these 2.6 billion, as far as I've divided, intended to release it before leaving for early repayment of the debt, to release it through agriculture, food industry and energy. Then I'd vote for it with two hands. It's not a bad idea, but it's a big question for us farmers if it's worth one hole to patch up another hole? For us, it's quite a waste of business, but given the lower cost of interest, it's certainly an undertaking worth considering and the government, as far as I can see, has considered that it will be premature to pay off the debts from privatisation revenue, if they are at all possible, because I don't know what's left to privatize. I would be a supporter, and I have not submitted the amendment, that the amendment has been submitted so that, before we are due, this money is released through agriculture, the production of electricity from renewable sources, biomass, green mass, etc., to be released into livestock farming, irrigation, to be released into the food industry, and to be released into the construction of two large companies that would serve both agriculture and food industries, so that we have in one company and IMT and “dragon” and Književec and all equipment produced for smaller agricultural holdings, since this larger one in Vojvodina uses a mechanism that is imported and which is far larger horsepower and is intended for large possessions. In this way, through the financing of agriculture, they would disburse themselves, and in order to make it from production and people would buy new machines, cattle, restore land, raise plastics, greenhouses, droughts, refrigerators for that money. In this way, the real-source state would service the debt, and I think it would certainly remain in some future budget in a realistic way that debt would be reduced and the interest would be paid off. In any case, I'm in a dilemma whether to trust a government or a finance minister who's been up until recently, and that idea has been represented before, but I'd rather be in charge and push that money into agriculture. If we cannot be in debt, I am in favour of selling state land, or agricultural land in state property, to farmers who have less than 20 hectares on credit for 20 years and thus ensuring this debt of three to four billion. In my opinion, it does not need to be pushed immediately into deleveraging, but rather pushed into the economy, so as to create a source of debt recovery and part of the economy that can guarantee a slightly larger income to the population, i.e. greater purchasing power, and thus to come together to domestic production and to greater consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29848	Thank you. The word has Mladjan Dinkic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29849	I'd like to thank you for your support, but also to explain a little bit why we should pay off first, so that she can clear the space to invest amongst other things and in agriculture. Because, you saw for yourself, this year the biggest savings made on salaries, pensions and subsidies for agriculture. The agricultural budget is 4.15% of the total budget. Why? Because the cost of interest has risen from 90 billion to 114. So 24 billion went to interest and thus the minister had to cut the budgets of all other ministries. What is bad is also reduced for agriculture, although agriculture is a generator for economic growth. If this were to be done, then it would be released in the budget of the following year, as it is now late for this year, 50 billion savings, because instead of costing interest from the current 114 billion in that year in 2015, they would fall from 114 to 85, so that difference between 85 and 136, about 51 billion, could be arranged both in agriculture and for all of these purposes for which you justifiably stated that they should be arranged. So it'll wait for anyone. As long as we don't pay off the most expensive loans, the IMF will be able to teach us lessons. We need to become independent of the IMF. Why? Because when we pay off those expensive loans, we keep things in our hands. It'll be good for the whole country, no matter what government does it. That, I say, will wait for anyone. You'll see next year, you were alive, so you see, they'll say again in the summer – we're about to go bankrupt, so we have to bring new measures. All the stabilisation programmes since 2008 have failed because this biggest problem is not being attacked.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29850	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29851	Well, for the sake of the viewers, so they don't get me wrong, I'm certainly a supporter of an urgent detachment of the country, hence the population. When the state owes the people a note. So, rich is he who doesn't owe, it's an old saying. I agree that we urgently have to deprive ourselves and that the real disaster is because today those who are gossiping on us, and I don't mean the previous speaker, they've put us in a lot of debt and brought us in a very awkward position, not only because they've put us in charge, but because they didn't create a way out of debt. If there was a way out of debt, no matter how big it would grow, a gross social product and we would have where to serve such high interest and such a high principal. However, those who have brought us into this position today are the loudest and I say, I don't mean the previous speaker, I am a supporter of the most urgent deleveraging, the only difference is that I am closer to the government's position at this point, that this borrowing should be extended by the revenues of privatisation and I have already said which part should be privatised and primarily sold to farmers who have less than 20 hectares in order to make as many of those medium-sized agricultural landowners, who can carry themselves economically and contribute to the urgent deleveraging of the country. I'm not a big fan, but if it has to be done, and if the finance ministers agree, we can borrow one loan for another loan. I'm more in favour of one loan that is released through agriculture, the food industry and energy in a year making some way out to repay the debt and to return not 2.6 billion, but to return three, and to have a little bit more left over. That's the only difference, otherwise I support the country's entirely premature deleveraging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29852	Thank you. The following has been registered by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29853	This amendment is more understood as political support for the government to enter more courageously into the privatisation of those sectors which did not prove to be a good manager, or where profits are not generated, and that in the same sector the private sector generates profits. So that's one reason and I think he has more in that sense his support and that's why I support him. On the other hand, it is also encouraging the government to enter radically into the privatisation of those sectors that simply do not need the government to have as a monopolies and as part of a public-private partnership. The third thing, which I think is important here, is what Mr Dinkic said about borrowing from domestic banks. You know, it's not just that there's big interest in domestic banks, I've been talking to a bank manager at the time, something about that potential as much as that bank has, and I realized that 95% of their potential is in the state sector. It is the safest thing for him, which threatens Serbia's economy, because then he has no reason to negotiate in any way with the private sector, or at all the economic sector in Serbia, because it is the safest thing for him to owe the state to him and to place his funds with the state. I think that, in that sense, it must be supported for deleveraging, above all by domestic banks that would deprive the state of this privatisation, in order to release that potential in domestic plasma banks into domestic economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29854	Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29855	Thank you, Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, I think the government should have looked more seriously at this amendment of MP Dinkic, because we, in principle, argued that for the first time, we were dealing with a budget in which, in a clear, open way, all the burden of crisis and public finance and external debt problems were being shifted to the back of citizens. So we have such a situation that we almost freeze with this indexation of wages and pensions. We have an increase in the cost of living through an increase in VAT, we have, the government itself says so, and we need to expect a further drop in employment, and on the other hand the state, its costs are rising. So, what's obvious when you look at the budget in vain is going to be the victim of the standard of living of all citizens, since nothing serious is happening on the dissenting side. When you look at what's really going on in our economy and public finances, you see that some of the measures have to be taken urgently. It's restructuring, rehabilitating the biggest public enterprises, privatization, but we don't see it through this budget that we're being offered, that it's going to happen. We see this big, I'd say an empty story about IDs and nothing more. It also seems to me to be naive optimism, that by adopting some rules on paid classes something important will change, and so we have obvious problems with interest costs and with a completely unstructured situation in large businesses. In doing so, the costs of some public enterprises are growing dramatically. In 2012, "Srbigas" owed 400m euros. More than a billion today. So, from 2012 to today, their debt has been higher three times. We don't see anything going on here. So in a situation like this where there are no bold measures on the plan, therefore, solving the situation with public enterprises and enterprises in restructuring the only effective measure and the one that can be done immediately, it is an attempt to reduce the debt by loans that would be cheaper and thus the burden of interest and this, especially in the coming year, attempt to drastically reduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29856	National MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29857	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. President of the Regional Assembly, we are talking about the budget, and right at the beginning, let me say that the DSS will vote against it. Mr. President, I'm asking you to take my time from an authorised representative. When we talk about restructuring the economy, I think we should talk about the market first. Where's the market? We'll get new investments, domestic or foreign, but those companies need to go somewhere, they need to sell. The talks have always mentioned the last ten years, and Serbia is definitely the most exporting to the EU. And it makes sense. First geographically, it's close, horizontal relationships are strong between businessmen. The biggest investments since 2000 came from the EU. As a result, one system approach that all governments have worked together with the EU since 2000. It was the agencies, I think today we have at least a tenth of agencies working systematically on relations with the EU. But the paradigm, which became from 70th to 2008 that there was permanent growth and it existed in co-operation with the EU, changed in 2008. The EU market is shrinking. There is stagnation in some countries, and in some countries there is recession. Apart from Germany, in part France and England, other countries have not achieved growth in recent years. Everyone has an increase in the number of unemployed. So during that period, the paradigms that existed had to be changed quickly. These are indeed the first and the first in Germany, France, Great Britain, even these smaller countries in Belgium, Luxembourg, Spain in part, and perhaps Italy the most. It was a way to carry out the burden of this crisis. They have defined themselves and the main strategy in the last five years has been the full concentration on the East market, primarily in China, Russia, Kazakhstan. I repeat this example often both Germany and Poland have increased their exports to these countries 50% over the past four and five years, while they have reduced the EU market by 10% to 30% of the supply of goods, not to mention exports, because it is within an international organisation. The market determines everything. Serbian products today are the main problem where they sell. Why? Because the EU is full of products, because the products subsidized are much more. It raises the question why don't we produce, or sell more in Russia? That we have growth. Last year, three times the export of cheese, four times the export of meat, rose 30% to Russia last year, and I apologize in 2013 by 30%. But why isn't he bigger? Because there's no system access. I said if we want to export as much as we export to the EU, we have to do what we've done for the last 10 years with the EU. If we have 10 EU co-operation agencies, because there were 20, why don't we have one, the only co-operation with Russia? In Austria, six hundred people in one Austria who is slightly bigger than Serbia are working at an export agency in the Russian Federation, of which is two hundred in Russia, four hundred in Austria. How many people work in Serbia today? How many people in the state administration are working to help, export, this largest market in Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Ukraine, how many? Zero. We have an agency dealing with the control of IPA funds. I didn't even know they existed. I think it's going somewhere in this budget about 400,000 euros for that agency, maybe I'm wrong. But that's what my colleague from the SPDS also mentioned, isn't it logical that someone in the finance ministry is doing, and we're transferring that money to some new markets? I supported here, when the government was reconstructed, fully supported agreements with the United Arab Emirates. There's no need for a new market. I always want to mention the strongest export of Serbia is in the 1970s and 1980s, until the 1990s. The largest exports, Simpo Vranje, Jumko, Obaće Belgrade, IMT, but where 70, 80 years were exported, were exported to the territories of the Soviet Union. Where did I work our construction industry? She worked on the territory of the Soviet Union, in Iraq, Iran, Libya, these are our markets. Simply, in the 1990s, the collapse of the Soviet Union occurred, and we failed to use it in those 10 years, from 1990 to 2000. But now there is a chance again, because these markets are not only markets for the export of goods. The European Union is the biggest export market, but there is no labour force there. Our workforce today, the Energy Project, works in Iraq, Iran, works in Libya, works for other construction companies. In Russia today, it is officially and unofficially working close to 50,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Close to 50,000 people. Look out, there are 5,000 people in Sochi alone, so we haven't opened a single factory in Serbia that has 5,000 employees, and today there is a Sochi, the largest Serbian factory is in Sochi, 5,000 people are working. Now it's the World Cup. New roads are being built, new railways, this is a chance and there is no need to promote exports to Russia, not just exports, as we export to the EU. We respect the EU. Good thing we're exporting, we need to increase if we can. I'm just afraid that for the next five years we won't be able to increase, but we cannot export labour to the EU. There are no jobs for our workers in the EU. In Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates, Libya, Iran, Iraq, there are jobs. Our key problem for the next 10 years will be employment, and these markets have potential other than sales of goods and services and for employment. And that's why I think there's got to be one agency in this budget, because there's a lot of them that control and don't know what anymore, I think there's a very strong export promotion agency in these markets that needs a minimum. You'll have in it, if you do that, you'll have the biggest DSS support. Of course, let me add that these markets, if we only take Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, as well as Eurasia, take over, just for the record, 15% of the world's total surface area, with undeveloped infrastructure. There's a chance to develop infrastructure for our construction workers and our technology. Of course, there is an even greater chance of attracting investment from these countries. We are here, and I spoke last year, because I am talking about these key things, if we are talking about employment, because the budget needs to be managed tomorrow in some way to enable the development of the economy, which is the key to Serbia, i.e. employment as a goal, the development of the economy as a means. "Zelezara" Smederevo, the only potential investors for "Zelezara" Smederevo are from this market and from Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, even from Belarus. They're real investors today. "US Steel" is no longer, unfortunately we all regret it, but if we want to find an investor, we can find it, but we can access it, I repeat it for the third time in the last year, because this problem has to be approached systematically, to find a solution to how to attract an investor at the moment when steel prices have fallen everywhere in the world, because the construction industry is not developing. It will take another two, three or five years, there will be no development of the construction industry across Europe, but the construction industry has fallen in Europe, but the construction industry has not fallen as much as in Europe in these markets as I have talked about, the EU and the Middle East. The potential is to allow some subsidies, investors to come. I don't trust investors, I didn't believe in the last investor who was without his raw materials. The only investors who can come here are the ones who have their own raw materials. Why? It is unrealistic to come to an investor who is not a producer of that metal and who has no raw material, because today everyone who has ironworks is at a loss. Only those who have raw materials due to the price of raw materials and metals, on the raw materials they earn, on the metal they lose, so they're on some medium value in some plus. That's what we need an investor to do, but that's the system approach again when these potential investors, with the support of their own countries, because it has to be done on an interstate level, because all these factories are private, but there are ways that investors can be interested in coming here to Serbia, because "Gelezara" Smederevo has a huge potential for exporting and for the growth of our GDP. Not to mention how many other activities and services are related to this "Steel" and, on the other hand, until "Steel" starts producing for some other producers in Serbia, it is difficult to talk about their exports to these markets, and, if it were to produce, it is certain that some replacements could also be talked about, new quotas for certain product types. Of course, I will use the presence of the agricultural minister as an agrarian is underestimated by this budget, not to mention that in a few days, we are beginning to liberalise imports from the EU, due to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It'll be a big challenge for agrarian. I think the Minister of Agriculture is the only minister who has the support of all the parliamentary groups here to increase his budget. We all say that agriculture is one of our most important development branches, not perhaps because it will bring the biggest income, but it is directly or indirectly employed, directly 500,000 people, and indirectly millions of people. So, a million people are somehow related to agriculture. This is what makes living better, but it is difficult today, when prices are fully liberalised with EU agricultural or food producers, which have subsidies from 10 to 20 times higher tomorrow. About 60% of the EU budget is a agricultural budget, not to mention credit lines where they receive loans with an annual interest of 1%, 2% or 3% and our agricultural producers up to 20%. As far as the SAA is concerned, I would just add in the end, because we're in favour of a moratorium on the SAA, that he lost his post 10 or 15 years ago, because then the candidate countries lifted customs awareness that their economy would have a certain loss over the next few years, but that funds from the European Union would be replaced by all of that. Now these funds are much smaller, some even shut down. Since the EU is in crisis, they will, of course, get away with it, but will first and foremost think about themselves and their own economies. I think it's about time we thought exclusively of domestic economy, in this case of agriculture. We are sorry, although the previous minister's promises to discuss this, which although there was a legal possibility of putting moratorium on application, this complete liberalisation of the SAA, or the full liberalisation of imports of food products, did not occur. Once again, the concepts of the current government and the DSS are completely different both in political terms and economically. Once again, we advocate the best trade, business, cultural and other relations with the EU, but we think that European integration is no longer needed and that today we are intruding. We are in favour of political neutrality and we will insist on it in the future and therefore we will vote against this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29858	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29859	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, the subject of this amendment is the payment of expensive loans to new borrowings, which I think is the agreement of all parliamentary groups that loans should be paid and reduced by borrowings. The question arises, the first justification for borrowing in the past period, and on the other hand, what is mentioned in this explanation of the amendments, which is that there is no item for privatisation. There is likely to be an understanding that according to international accounting standards on these items, which have already been received from privatisation, this view shows that there is agreement that the companies that are in restructuring are brought to one level, which will be able to implement a certain public-private partnership with new investors, on the one hand. On the other hand, to consider competitions relating to the concession, i.e. to lease certain factories and certain land that would produce later certain results in their business activities, from which loans would be paid out of real resources. That's one thing. Part two, we're coming up with this reality that we've been talking about is essentially supposed to be shown at this real loan payment. Finally, when we talk about subsidies, I want to repeat what I said in the principle debate, which is that this year's subsidies are 42%, or 34.9 billion dinars, compared to the total budgeted subsidies, which is quite a large percentage, given the situation that we have a complete cut of all investments, all costs and when we go to one budget that consolidates financial resources through savings. I understood this amendment well-intentioned, and I think that we are all on this path that loans should be paid, but in what way and how, by taking other loans, the question is raised and it is the ministry's task to prepare this job in a very efficient and good way, given that we have certain announcements of foreign investment from the Arab Emirates, then it is up to us to believe that the real payment of these loans will be the cheapest possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29860	The word is made by Minister Dragan Glamocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29861	I just wanted to thank you for the support provided to the agriculture ministry's budget. We certainly agree that in agriculture is our chance and that we should all invest in that part together. What I'd like to discuss specifically is a story about the SAA. Unfortunately, it's so negotiated and it's not good, but we don't have to deal with it. This is where I expect your support and your parliamentary groups and all other parliamentary groups to find a way. You know the change of the SAA yourself, but I think we've found a way to do it, so when I'm this whole story, me and my entire team at the Ministry, look at it, then we'll talk to you about supporting us in this story, to convince Europe, to start a safeguard mechanism, and to prove to them that Serbia's agriculture will be compromised, if that goes into effect. It's the only way we can really try, but I think we have all the arguments on our side. I've dealt with certain people, who are competent for these things, within the European Commission, and I think we could run that story, but which requires a certain amount of time, requires a certain amount of money where we can engage around it. I think it's the only way. Otherwise, our agriculture will have competition problems, because we're not ready in time. Thanks again. I hope that answers your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29862	The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29863	Mr. Minister, just to thank you for your understanding. What you're saying is primarily in the interest of domestic agriculture, and we're happy about it. What I'm saying is that all EU countries had liberalised their market before they joined the EU, but that was always one, two or three years, maximum, before EU entry. We've been liberalizing for five years. Now the question is whether we'll be in in five, ten, 15 years. We got in very early. It's not an equal game. I promise you, these protective mechanisms, if there's a chance that they can be introduced and that it protects domestic producers, you'll have full support from the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29864	The word has a Minister Glamocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29865	What I'd like to say is that it's going to take a little understanding and time, because it's not that easy. We have talked in principle, and we have achieved some agreement that we can move in that direction, but we must prepare a serious elaborate, serious evidence that such a thing will endanger our agriculture. We're gonna need some time, but I hope we can make it. It's our job to do our best, and I believe we'll make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29866	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29867	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to Dr Nenad Popovic's discussion and to say that the idea of forming such an office for co-operation with the Russian Federation is excellent. Given that six million tonnes of food are exported to Serbia only in the Moscow area during the year, it is logical and clear that export opportunities and business arrangements throughout the Russian Federation are very, very large and we have to take advantage of it, and this way is quite appropriate. It is true that the budget provides for an IPA Fund Audit Office with a budget that Mr Popovic has already defined and said, and given the experience of other countries, IPA funds are being controlled and there is the possibility of being controlled by the relevant financial committees in the republican parliament, which I think is a better and more practical option. Given the fact that I had the honour of being in a delegation that welcomed the Russian delegation, led by Mr Popovic, they had concrete offers for 2,500 jobs, where they could receive workers from our country. So that co-operation could be multiplicated. In addition to increasing exports, we could find opportunity and space for our qualified workforce, especially for the workforce that has secondary vocational education and crafts that, unfortunately, die and that is very important. I would also like to support the fact that for us besides the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, the very important markets of the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait with which we already have good co-operation, we have a fully open door for all kinds of business arrangements and co-operation at the educational, scientific and economic level. About a month and a half ago, I visited South Korea where companies from their Silicon Valley expressed their will and desire to co-operate with Serbia, to invest here, to make certain "joint Ventures" arrangements, but the problem is that we do not have an economic diplomat covering that part of the world, as we do not have economic diplomats, let's say, in Africa, whose countries represent very fast and dynamically growing markets, so I think this idea should and how seriously we should consider it and that it is very important for our economic development to be more pro-pulsive, in order to increase our exports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29868	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29869	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, three questions have been raised through this amendment, two of which are economical and one political. The political question is whether we should continue to make a strong connection with the EU and how to prepare our agricultural policy for a large EU market with nearly 600 million people. Our agriculture, even though it is our largest export branch, is on its knees. I will be in line with those MPs who will always advocate an increase in the budget as far as agriculture is concerned. In 2008, in the campaign, when those famous 100 euros per hectare of farmland were promised, it seemed like an unfulfilled dream to farmers. However, the Agricultural Subsidy Act has also made, unfortunately, a step back from those 50 euros that will be quickly derailed and it seems to us that Mr. Agriculture Minister should correct the mistakes of his predecessor to whom we have pointed out. On the other hand, I agree it takes some kind of office to co-operate with the great Russian Federation. As a political party, we supported relations with the Russian Federation. We love Russians, but we are going to the EU because of standards, because these are today's top countries and because agricultural production in EU countries is at the highest level. A year ago, while the agriculture minister was Mr. Milosavljevic, he made an interesting point, that, if I'm not mistaken, the annual production of dried plums in Serbia was about 390 tonnes and that only the annual needs of Moscow for dry plums were twice as high. This huge market we did not make good use of, and despite the fact that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce pointed out in time what the state should do in this regard, regardless of what various associations of farmers pointed it out, the state did fail, and I think it was a minute to twelve to move in that direction. We are as a political party and advocated the adoption of a green book on the state of our agriculture. Mr. Minister, I know you must know the situation well. You may be familiar with many parts of the situation of Serbian agriculture, but we really need to be fully prepared as a state for our farmers to perform on the European market, to meet European agricultural policy, but with this attitude of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, it will take us a long time, because, for example, remember that subsidies in many countries are even the former Yugoslavia, let's say Slovenia, depending on the quality of the land and whether it is flat or mountainous, etc. And a few hundred euros. Our farmers, unfortunately, here they are free as a MP on their behalf to say to this government that they have been left aside, that the state has given up on them. Of course, educated farmers are also following the situation in EU countries, as much as the countries are helping them, how much they invest in agriculture, and we really cannot be competitive on the EU market in many areas, but as far as agricultural production is concerned, the huge potentials of Vojvodina, the Woodland has not been exploited. We and the last few years have this situation to get past the Danube, next to Morava, past our great rivers of droughts. Obviously, it is not a farmer, it is not a small producer, it is a serious state agricultural strategy, and therefore SPOi DHSS will support all efforts to raise awareness of each government's need for a different relationship with agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29870	The word has a Minister Glamocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29871	Unfortunately, in agriculture, we had a problem not having a long-term development strategy. You know for a fact that the most common changes were in the Ministry of Agriculture. A lot of ministers have changed. Rarely, which of them has had a term of longer than one year, all of which has been reflected in agricultural production itself and farmers themselves. We're always full of mouths when we talk about it, about agriculture, but it's a little reflective at the very end. She was only in that part constantly present, but there were no results and shifts. We have to turn around. What I'm saying is, it's not exactly true that I don't know the situation, on the contrary, I'm someone who was born and grew up in the country. It's my job and assignment, besides working at the university where I'm a professor. I work very hard with the economy and many people who know me know that I know the situation in the agrarian region, but I know the situation in the country. She's not great. We all know it's a difficult situation in the whole society, but what's for sure, we've seen the real situation, what's up to us. We've managed our expenses, which are extremely small for current funding, we've managed everything else on subsidies. Of course, I would be overjoyed as a Minister of Agriculture if our subsidies were bigger than in EU countries, but it is not realistic to expect. We tell our farmers what is realistic, what the state can direct them, that in the best possible way and increase our competitiveness. That is why we are going to make some minor changes in this area and focus some funds on investment, but we can certainly do a lot to educate our farmers, to explain to them that they have to accept some new trends in the world and in Europe, that they have to work in a better way, to apply more modern technologies, to reduce their costs, to increase their rentability, to be more competitive on the European market. Of course it's not easy. The competition from Europe is very strong. They have certain advantages over our farmers. Our estates remain extremely tight and that's our reality, but that doesn't mean the Ministry of Agriculture isn't working on it, that it hasn't seen the situation and that it's not doing its best to fix it. If someone thinks it's gonna get better in a few months, it can't be fixed. It can't be fixed probably in a few years in such a fast way, but we just have to work on it and we took it. What I'm trying to say is that we have done and completed exactly the agricultural development strategy from 2013 to 2024 in line with European principles, in line with all that developed countries have done and we will have its public promotion in January of the month. After that, we will also have before the Assembly Committee a discussion about the work. It will be a publicly available document to everyone where we have gone exactly with the dynamics of how agriculture will develop, what will be the incentive mechanism in agriculture for the next ten years, and it will be clear to all farmers, what is expected of them, and to all those who want to invest in our agrarian, what is it that the state does systematically and that simply cannot happen again there are some changes in agricultural policy because if we go to the EU, the EU will not allow us to do such things. So, that strategy would have to stay, no matter who comes to the Minister of Agriculture's chair. I had the opportunity and the honor to start doing that strategy before I was a minister of agriculture as someone who deals in the profession, and then it happened that after that I became a minister, so I just kept working on that part of the document that came from my post. Over 200 people and from the country, part of experts from abroad, were included in the strategy. The professional public, farmers and associations of them are included. So everyone worked on that strategy and that's something that's the result of all of one team effort. I'm saying, you'll be able to get to know each other, and I hope we start slowly returning the agriculture where it used to be, but we shouldn't expect quick results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29872	MP Mirko Chikiriz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29873	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I know your biography and I very much respect it and I know that you know the situation in agriculture, but I was thinking of getting to know the work of the ministry and the many regulations and problems concerning the jurisdiction of the ministry itself. Far from knowing the state of agriculture. Just what you've been talking about about the strategy for the development of agriculture, we've been talking about it since the day our political party was founded. We've been saying this for 23 years, and for 23 years, no government has done it. We know that education is primarily needed, that possessions are depreciated, but mentality and habits and one general hopelessness, people who deal with agriculture, and especially small possessions, say that they simply don't care, give up their hands from everything, survive from day to day. That is why we supported what Mr Dusan Petrovic did as a minister of agriculture, the engagement of those 1,700 agronoms, whose superior task was to educate and introduce our farmers to the EU's agricultural strategy and what awaits them all in the coming days, especially in the years when we are a full member of the EU. Therefore, if this strategy meets everything that we as a political party expect from it, you will fully have our support. No one else because everyone really tried, everyone promised, and the country situation is getting worse, you know that the demographic situation is catastrophic, that the state of mechanization is terrible, that the undeveloped market is. I also asked the question when will the cooperative law be passed, especially with regard to agricultural cooperatives, the restoration of cooperatives in Serbia? That should have been, if I'm not mistaken, on the agenda of the National Assembly seven, eight months ago, but that's not there. (President: Time. I'm done. Anything that goes in the direction of what I'm talking about, and what you mentioned about the strategy, we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29874	The word has a Minister Glamocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29875	What I want to give you is trust, more than 200 people participated in writing this strategy, where both agricultural producers and people from the institute were involved, from scientific institutions, etc. I was just someone who was president of a task force, and we had more working groups. So this is one result of teamwork. For the first time, all the principles that other European countries have done have been respected. So it's going to be very specific, with a view and with a complete budget of what we expect to happen over the next 10 years. As you know, I know this sector, as far as agriculture is concerned, and also from the point of view of education. At least the whole story is blamed by farmers for this condition. They must raise their level of education and knowledge and be aware, but also of people working in educational institutions, starting with the university where I work, to lower institutions, to high schools, to our agricultural professional services. Everyone has to suffer changes, they have to raise their level of knowledge. I told them that to everyone. They can't go with a story about farmers without having an economic effect. As our people would say, we constantly have a story “round to the corners. ” When you ask someone – what years it takes to get that investment back, what do you get with it, we have no answer. So we have to tell our farmer and the farmer exactly when it's investing what it's getting, to make a clean calculation, a clean bill, to invest in those productions that pay off. So we all have to raise the level of knowledge. As far as the Ministry's work is concerned, what I want to pour is additional trust. As long as the minister was Mrs. Ivana Dulic Markovic, I co-operated as an expert with the ministry. I also worked with all the other ministers on legal regulations, rules, on that professional work, so I'm familiar with the workaround and I'm not very surprised. The situation is much harder than it might have been expected, but I'm simply ready to face it and we have to work. That's where I expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29876	The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29877	Replica Aleksandri Tomic. Let's get back from these fine stories a little bit into the harsh reality. I was not well understood by MP Tomic, and I am sorry that Mr Krstic was not there, because your predecessor Radulovic looked at me white when I said it, I guess he just understands the story of ID cards and when we talk about debt, it is not clear to him. What's this about? This amendment we're talking about isn't about agriculture. But if you don't pay off the expensive loans too soon, there won't be money for agriculture, so it indirectly is. First, I would like to thank Ambassador Angelkovic of the SPS, Risticevic of the SNS and Mrs Lucic of the DS, who supported this amendment. But I'm asking you ministers -- why don't you support the amendment that we gave, the URS parliamentary group, where we suggest that two and a half billion euros early pay off expensive loans, to open one item in the amount of 297 billion dinars of privatisation revenue, because you didn't plan anything from privatisation revenues. I will tell Mrs Tomic where her little delusion is – two and a half billion euros cannot be found by privatising companies in restructuring. I guess that's clear. That's what you said that came out. Basically, you can find two and a half billion euros if you sell some large state property that is currently unproductively used. Because two and a half billion euros are not small money. Our proposal is to do it, to open an item in the budget, that you have to do it, and not – if it is, we will do it, but to commit, that is the essence of our amendment. Because when you do it as Government, then you will make it easier for all future generations and all future governments to work, because you will reduce the cost of interest by 500 million euros and open up the possibility of more investment in agriculture, in the economy and in all other activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29878	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29879	Thank you. Two answers to those two questions you asked. We, and for this reason have been criticised, in the draft budget, in Article 3, have foreseen what are cheap loans from bilateral sources. These loans would go, instead of other borrowings that we certainly have to do to maintain, that's how it currently stands in the budget, that second borrowing is at the level of, in any case depending on the source, but, if it's not bilateral, if they're not favourable interest rates, due to bilateral arrangements, over 6%. On this side, we have predicted that, with the proper progress of our bilateral relations, that is, the progress on this restructuring of enterprises that have been in restructuring for years, that we will get that money and use it to avoid borrowing and increasing interest, which we would otherwise have to do. As far as privatisation is concerned, I don't think it's a good business practice that if you want to privatize or sell anything, you should set yourself a deadline to do it in the budget, because by definition it knocks down the price. He's putting you in a bad position from the negotiating point. So, if the terms are favourable, we said that and you said that in your fiscal strategy and you didn't put it in the budget, if I wasn't wrong last year, which I think is right, it wouldn't be right this year, if there was a state property that wasn't productively used, as you said, it could be done anyway, and that those funds could be used either to pay off the loan or instead of financing in the budget itself. To be plastic, when you go to negotiations with someone when Vietnam negotiated with America about ending work, the first signal that the U.S. counterintelligence services had on these negotiations was that the Vietnamese side rented a house for three years, which became a clear signal – we're not in a hurry and we'll negotiate properly. I'm not going to go to a high-speed sale of any state property until it's necessary, and like I said, we haven't fallen off the edge of a break-in yet, but we're definitely going to consider that idea. We consider it and engage in long-term projections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29880	The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29881	Dear Chairman, I have tried to explain it as a good way to through certain business activities, public private partnership and concessions to repay these loans gradually. Therefore, not by new borrowing, but from real sources of financing, or from business activities where the state has a certain percentage of investment capital through these companies that are in restructuring and new investors. Of course, the profit of full business in that arrangement is divided into certain percentages. From these real percentages, then there can be a certain payment. I wasn't talking about the banking sector, but I was talking about the fact that by starting such business activities, we can really become credible and in some subsequent iteration, we can pay off those two and a half billion loans. So I think that the intention of this presentation and the subject of the amendment was extremely clear, and I think everyone has figured out what the essence of this draft budget is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29882	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so there is no confusion, and I am a supporter of the urgent deleveraging of the country, I said, and that the finance ministers and the former and present are considering how to do it. I suggested that if the country is re-indebted, the money is not immediately invested in repaying debts, but to pass through production, through agriculture, the food industry, through energy, and not only through warfare and vegetables, but also to invest in livestock, irrigation, food industry, construction of the machinery plant and equipment for small agricultural holdings and for those entrepreneurs who will be engaged in food production, that is, the construction of refrigeration plants, droughts, etc. So, I am a supporter of the country's urgent deleveraging, but I'd rather if the country was in debt, it would be missed through production, so instead of that 2.6 billion to us for a year, we'd be left with it. Let's say three billion to part with something that remains more to the population and to us that we can share more through production and thus create a source of debt returns, am I not exactly in favor of one hole being ragged with another hole. So, if the finance ministers agree, and in such a way, I would agree only to have the country disbursed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29884	Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29885	I didn't propose an amendment to have one hole bathed in another hole, because it's like having a residential loan and paying you a small one, and every month you have a problem paying it off, because you have a small salary. A solution, or to find a better job, so the salary is higher, which is in the case of a state-wide increase in GDP, or to borrow money from someone and pay off a part of the loan, and to reduce the war, or, if you have an inheritance, to sell a field or a house so you can use it again, to reduce the war. In all these cases, you're preventing the bankruptcy of your family. To prevent the bankruptcy of the state should be done, Minister, exactly what you've been saying all these days, to clean the house. You said it was time to clean the house. Ask yourself if it will be cleaned. If next year in 2015, your interest expenses rise another 24 billion, and they want to go to 135. One more thing, you won't tell anyone a secret if you now put the proceeds of the privatisation of 297 billion dinars, as much as it takes to pay off these 2.5 billion euros, because that state property you're selling needs to make such an international tender, to create competition. When the "Mobtel" 10 companies in the world appeared, the higher the price. We announced it in the budget that year, and made a huge surplus. So, the bottom line is you have to be braver, not you, but those who support you, the government, and you say -- we don't want to patch up the holes, by putting off the constant problem, but let's do what we normally see is unproductive and not used, maybe it's not just one property, maybe you have two things to privatise, or to rent in the long term, and to collect the rent in advance, you can do that. Make the revenue you will use to deprive yourself, as it saves 500m euros permanently. (The President. Time. Because next year, you'll have another problem. The fiscal council has faced you with this truth, they say your budget is 300 million dollars higher in expenditures than you should, they say tighten another hole in your belt, but they'll tell you in six months... (The President. Time. Not only 300, you're short 600... (The President. I apologize for two minutes and 35 seconds. )......................................................................................................... For he shall eat you the interest of all the savings which you have made on other items.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29886	Janko Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29887	Your Honor, I'm using the time of my authorised representative. We're from the DS parliamentary group that this is today a debate in particular. Since we don't think it's a discussion in particular, we're going to be involved in a debate in principle, like she was for the past six hours. But we will stick to this amendment and the money that will be or will not be invested for the purposes that this country needs. In that light, Minister, since you didn't give us an answer when the debate was in principle, can we now know the structure of 20 billion planned for severances for people who are going to be out of work, 30 or 60 thousand people?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29888	Mr. Veselinović, you may not have followed closely what Mr. Dinkic said. Perhaps you have not followed closely what other colleagues have said. They have spoken widely about the content of this amendment, but they have spoken of the amendment, and you are now trying to move the debate to something that never touches the content of the amendment. I'm asking you to either do it more skillfully or don't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29889	Dear Chairman, I appreciate that you want to focus the debate on the subject now from this second on, but before that, the debate was not about the amendments. I want to go back to the amendment and say that every concern and former minister of duties and level of duty and interest rates is very important. But in light of that, we should get the minister's answer -- where the money that will be raised from the new responsibilities will be spent, and as far as we understand it will be based on a new 5 billion-billion-dollar debt so far, which we will be in debt next year. In that sense, in order not to re-indemnify and take favourable and unfavourable loans, we must first see what this money will be spent in and in that sense is my question – in what is this 20 billion really going to be spent? You have no answer for that, apparently, which is a serious item in the budget, and on the other hand, we have an item of 3 billion relating to employment, but we have, as I understand it, a response from your colleagues on the Finance Committee that these three billion will also be used for the purpose of taking care of previously fired employees. Is that true?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29890	National MP Mladjan Dinkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Mladjan Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29891	Minister, I'd like to point out what kind of response you and your professional services have given me on the proposal for these amendments. You say you don't accept this amendment, and it's about this early deleveraging, because you're in Article 2. The bill already envisioned that if privatisation benefits are secured during the year, relatively expensive credit sources and state charter emissions from values on the domestic and foreign financial markets will be reduced. You say – if they are provided, it means that you are not sure that you will provide. If you're not sure, then it means you'll definitely be cutting back on wages and pensions next year or raising taxes. The essence of our amendment was to make it easier for you, and for our citizens' lives, to make sure that you have to secure those privatisation revenues and that you have to return the expensive loans early, not if that's what we're going to do. What if you don't? You know, as soon as the state administration says something, if it happens, it never happens. The point is, this has to be done, because if you don't do this, what's the budget deficit going to be next year? If it's in your plan for GDP to grow 0% or 1%, and your interest is going to grow by 24 billion, at least, and perhaps more if you have some outstanding borrowings over the next year, then in the following year you carry a major deficit. I don't get it. This isn't politics. This is pure finance and economy. Why don't you accept the amendment unless you want to accept it because we filed it? There's really no reason. This is something that saves citizens' standards in the coming period because instead of constantly being pressured to limit wages and pensions, it's better to deprive the state by selling a part of the property that is unproductive. One more thing, 2.5 billion euros cannot be paid off by getting 2.5 billion cheaper, as those who give these cheaper loans will not allow it. They say if they give us cheaper loans, they want to see it given to the people of Serbia. They're right, people, when we talk about the Emirates. We can't win from the others. The only way we can get that money from Emirat is if you know it. That's what I know. They want us to invest in development. This means that -- what would they iron Serbia's problems for which they are neither guilty nor in debt? This means that Serbia, or government, must find a solution to repay it. And when you think about it, you know, the money isn't colored, but there's no other solution, eventually you have to do it out of privatisation income, sooner or later. It's better to cut down the mains as soon as possible and thus reduce the cost of interest, because it's going to be more expensive in 2015, in 2016, even more expensive, it goes exponentially. Look how much that was when I finished my first term as finance minister, there were 14 billion dinars, so it's grown now to this second term of office to 92, so now, during your term, it's gone to 114, so it's going to go to 136, so who knows how much. There's no end to it. Then it's better to make a consensus in society, you've heard people from DS and Mr. Angelkovic, experienced in the SPS, to take it apart, to stand behind it, and to say, we support it, to take it apart, because it's not the government's move, it's for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29892	Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29893	So just to be very clear, let me bring it down to one sentence. You're suggesting that we tie our hands, then we'll do it later, because you think, I believe that maybe it's your experience, that you won't do what's necessary at some point. I am not willing to bind my hands to either government or anyone else, and that is why I am realising, that is, we as a society are making potentially less income than these potential privatisations that we would do and sell state assets, but that is something that is clearly mentioned as an option in the fiscal strategy and would certainly be critical to stabilise our public debt path. That's the point. As for the loans that we can get, they're not just bilaterals, they're also from the World Bank and other international institutions, well, and we can take Russia under the bilateral, etc. That's the answer to the same thing we talked about. I don't see the need, it may be a matter of personal experience in some way, but my experience so far has been that this government has been making responsible moves that weren't popular, so I have no reason to bring myself into a suboptimal situation, a situation that will significantly worsen our ability to borrow, on the one hand, and in a possible situation of selling state property that is unproductively used, because I believe that the government will continue to behave the way it has acted in the last three to three months and a half months and I have no reason to believe in otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29894	Replica, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29895	I really don't expect you to use phrases. What brave move did the government take in the area of economy? Give me at least one. I expect you to speak professional language. What I really don't understand is, if you put it in the budget and make the government do it, why do you think the price will be less? If you're selling more customers' assets, you're going to have competition, you're going to have a price, and the property nobody's going to answer for, you can't even sell it, because nobody's interested in that anyway. I'll give you an example. If you decide to make an international tender for a 20, 30-year lease, not to sell, but to rent, a Belgrade airport, you will be contacted by five, six companies the strongest in the world. You'll have a price. You put that in the budget today, it doesn't matter, sooner or later you, when you announce the tender, you announce it. You can't sell that in a month. You need to prepare, announce, get as many companies as possible, and then they take over the temporary management, invest in new facilities at the airport, modernise it, increase the number of passengers, Serbia has more benefits than tourism, and you ask them to pay the rent in advance for 20, 30 years, to pay in advance in the budget. With the money you get, you pay off the most expensive loans, and you cut interest costs. That's one example. It doesn't have to be just that. You know it. If it's a property where there's competition, the price has nothing to do with whether or not you publish it in advance. You have to publish the prices in advance if you're not making a direct answer. If you're making a tender, you must announce it in advance anyway. I think you're wrong. Think here until the end of the budget debate. I think you should accept these two amendments to the URS, they're tied up, this second one's technically, this first one's essential, and that the government is bound to go on early deleveraging. That would be useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29896	National MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29897	The amendment discusses the acquisition of financial assets and the method of borrowing, at which rate the Republic of Serbia should be in debt, i.e. debt. It's interesting this discussion of the former and current minister in the same government. Interesting are their perverse views in the same government. Probably the minister is the former because he ran a policy that didn't match the president and the first vice president, and probably this new minister runs a new policy. However, just when it comes to this issue, it is very interesting, when it comes to the acquisition of financial assets, please give me an answer, either the current or former minister. The former minister, Mr. Krstic, gave me an answer nine months or 10 years ago, that the first funds from Al Dahra would arrive during July or August. True, he corrected himself and said, no later than the end of the year, that is, by the end of November. Mr. Minister, don't ask for protection in the President of the Assembly - you have to answer that question. Did some Al Dahra dinar arrive in the meantime? It is about the acquisition of financial assets by selling immovable property, i.e. by renting agricultural land. Did he arrive when he arrived and first tell us where the contract was? Where's the contract you leased or sold to the Emirates? Secondly, if we can also get an answer on this amendment – what about other contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the Emirates? Today, the sheik, the truth, is not the one that was announced, but the one that was to come, so we would like to know – what about transparency, what's the real truth about selling or giving to Belgrade Airport and what about the loans we need to get from Emirat, under what conditions, where we can see these loans and what about the other transactions we made with this company, or the company from Emirat, are we going to be able to see these contracts? To this day, we have not seen a single contract, and that is the main potential of the government of the Republic of Serbia, before that, Minister Dinkic, and now you. Is there anything we can know about that? It's about the acquisition of financial assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29898	Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29899	What you're saying has nothing to do with this amendment, but I'll answer your question. Just because he's on the same line, by chance, doesn't mean he's paying off his debts. I don't know exactly what you asked. (Janko Vesenovic: What about Al Dahra, where are these contracts and where are the money? ) As regards the overall relationship with the United Arab Emirates, we will talk about this relationship, the first Deputy Prime Minister will speak much more, since it is involved in all aspects of it as far as today, it is all going well. As you know, you have successful co-operation as far as Serbia is concerned. We've already seen that it's both figuratively and practically taken off. Also, we are negotiating with Abu Dhabi "Divil Menfond" and here we are in the final parts of the negotiations. The problem is on our side, we simply agree on what projects we will do and how to work in the next three years in agriculture, at an interest rate of up to 3%, five years of grace periods and 15 years of payment of a $100 million loan. We have another $100 million that we're negotiating, but we want to find the right way to get that money where it's supposed to go. In fact, it's also very favourable to 2% loan for farmers, so direct. We have co-operation with Mubadal on several projects, as you know, related to Utva, related to a potential IT centre and we have a Rewafed about the agriculture you mentioned. So it's all going with our dynamics and we're doing it carefully to do it right, to make it useful for the state. It's about that. As for your previous question, which is the same, on the same thread, I believe you've had the opportunity to discuss it in detail with the Minister of Economy who was there. If you're not here, I know, maybe other MPs don't know, that it is on the Finance Committee, where it's also discussed in detail, and that the money that's been allocated to that money that's assigned to buy out the claim. Or, if you want me to put it in a free language, to understand, it means paying back the residual minimum earnings and the severances of workers who are pre-prepared restructuring plans envisaged as a technological surplus in enterprises in the restructuring of these 153, if I'm not mistaken, how much is left. I don't know if there's any other 621. Also, where do you see it in the budget? You can see it where it's supposed to be. For example, this credit to Abu Dhabi "Divel Menfonda" is seen in agriculture, specifically where we talked about this withdrawal dynamic. Now we've discussed the Minister of Agriculture and I, for the next three years, will be four years. What you see in our budget on those sides is three years. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29900	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29901	Thank you, Minister, for your good will to answer, but unfortunately there is no answer, because, apparently, you don't have the right information. So you didn't tell me where the contract was and if there was a contract. You haven't told me how much money has arrived and when the money will arrive regarding the non-credit arrangement. At the end of your presentation, you've all come down to loans. Where are the topics you've been opening, not us, but you, or specifically Mr. Wolfich, who did you mention? We don't need Mr. Wolfich's answer at the press conference, because we can't ask questions there. It is possible that he will say again today something that will please the citizens of Serbia, but unfortunately this will again be a hoax. So I ask where's the money from Al Dahra? Where's the Al Dahra contract? Will that money be there or won't they be? This has been announced as the largest investment Serbia will rebirth from? You're telling us now about cheap loans. So there's no investment and no contract, it's all on the basis of a statement. It's gonna be this, it's gonna be that one, it's gonna be this one. The money's not coming, there's no investment, and, apparently, it's a colorful lie. This is very important because of the MPs, because of the public in Serbia, that we finally know that you do not have any contracts that would concern investments in Serbia without loans. Credits can be taken one way or another around the world. It's not a small loan offer. You chose the Emirate. All right. But will there be other investments in Serbia and will any money arrive, which you promised us?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29902	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29903	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased with the view of the Minister and the Government that we do not have an imperative of sales in order to obtain financial resources. We have an imperative to sell everything we've found, inherited or have, and yet the previous regime hasn't sold, sold or scattered into debauchery and thus earned profit under quotes. I'd like to know how much of that sale, of all these privatisations and the sale of state property in these last 12 months, net profits for the budget, net profits for those people who are employed in these companies, how much this country has net profited from it. The previous minister once mentioned two days ago that it was a great story, "Fiat". I agree, but I would like to know how much the state of Serbia has invested in "Fiat" coming here and how many years it will take for us to make a net profit from that trade that was called a big deal, which is now being run as a big export business. It seems to me that the profits are very small for what this country has invested. Many examples show that some companies that have been sold have not brought any financial effects, not by budget, or by workers who work inside. Then why would all of our people's leadership be called both social or indemnity or any other property, why would we sell imperialally at any rate, why not buy something, so that we could buy or sell what we bought? Is it possible that we forgot everything we used to do and sell, that we couldn't do it anymore, but just sell what we inherited as a fatherland or a grandfather? Let's turn a little story to the other side, buy something, make money for both citizens and the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29904	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened very carefully to my colleague from the Democratic Party, he asked a lot of questions. He seems to have forgotten the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to international loans and loans, the National Assembly approves whether or not we will be in charge. Of course, there will be before the messengers of the people and the conditions under which we are in debt. Pretty sarcastic talking about our partners. I would like to point out just one example, that they invested in our dedicated military industry 12 million euros. So, just one investment. I am surprised by the MP from the former regime, especially when it comes to international loans and loans, because when we discussed earlier conferences on international loans, I did not see any justification for the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and the economic effects expected during the duties of the Republic of Serbia. It was important to be in charge. They boast of two billion investments in 2011. And where is this growth of gross products in 2011? Where is the increase in the number of employees in 2011 based on these two billion euros? We can talk about it for days now, but what I'm trying to say is that at least now we know what kind of situation we're in, unlike before. Rest assured, there will be reasons for borrowing and economic effects and what is expected of this borrowing. So, we're in charge of the earlier period, and no one knows why, no one sees any use of it, we see only one damage and a recession that, thank God, is behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29906	The word is Mr. Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29907	Thank you, Chairman. We have opened a topic that is very important to the citizens of Serbia and it is certainly the right time to talk about it when we talk about the budget. Unfortunately, the situation is that we need to look into the truth. It is precisely this coffee presented by Mr. Arsic, which is that out of the billion euros announced as investments in Serbia by the only investor that was then looked like an investor, 12m euros arrived. I really don't want to underestimate 12m euros, but it's a more serious investment, is it, Mr Krstic, a smaller company that invests in developing its capacities? It's not the capital that's been announced and that we've been told about for almost a year. So out of billions of euros came 12 million. How many times is that less? That's less, isn't it? We're missing a few, a few zeros here, Mr. Arsic. As is true and what you said, there was borrowing and there was borrowing. All previous governments, as I said the other day, will repeat my second Tito, have charged 15 billion euros, and your government has already committed five billion euros and will be in debt next year based on the current planned deficit for the new six billion. So, you in two and a half years, 11 billion, and all of the other Titos for 15 billion euros. And you're talking about some success and getting in the way of the crisis. What future generations will do and how will be due when your daily borrowing, i.e. secondly borrowing, is 97 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29908	Replica, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29909	Now I have to agree with you, too. Once Tito's Yugoslavia was in charge, but she made some rules. I'll never agree with that concept, but they've done something both workers and peasants and proletariats to such ideologies. The problem is, you were in charge and you sold it out. You're right, we're missing a lot of zeroes to pay off your debts even with this Budget Law, we'll still need a lot of zeros to pay off the damage you've done in the economy and in public finances. You say you didn't do much in debt, but you sold out and sold out a lot, bud, why, while people were out of a job. Is that some kind of success? Is that someone's inheritance? One of you? What? What are you talking about? When you no longer knew what you were going to sell, you decided to sell Telekom, that the SNS hadn't rebelled, and you'd only give it away if you had the money for the campaign. You love this country so much, and I'm asking whether the state or the government is because the money from Telekom was planned for the DS campaign. When you talk about how we're in charge, ask the question how much we have to pay back yours and pay off your unsuccessful moves. When you boast of two billion euros in foreign investment, tell the citizens how much we paid the two billion euros. You know, if I get two billion euros in investment, and I owe three billion and six million euros to get those two billion, what more is worth, six million euros without borrowing or two billion with three and a half billion in debt? Let's add up a little bit and subtract.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29910	The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29911	Replica to the previous MP and questions for "Fiat". "Fiat" invested a billion and 200m euros in the failure of the flag. Ten years ago, about 500m euros in budgets were given for subsidies in fact to maintain social peace. Of the billions and 200 million euros that were the total investment of our countries, ours gave something about one-third, slightly less than one-third in five years. So, not suddenly, but in five years. Thanks to Fiat, another 150 autocomponents have come to Serbia. Serbia that didn't have a car industry five years ago, now the car industry is the most popular branch of our economy. When you look at what generates this growth of 2.4% this year it's agriculture and car industry and less than a few branches. So ask the president of your party how Serbia thinks it is carrying out a good investment, which is a chip factory. By also having to if we want to realize that we give 20% of the investment because they gave so much to the Americans to build a chip factory in America, the Germans gave them so much to build one in Dresden. If we want a chip factory in Serbia that will make three billion euros in exports. So we have to give 20% of the investment. That's good. Let me give you an answer to this about imperative borrowing. This isn't a question for us to say yes or no. Here's a question or-or. If we don't do it too soon, then we're gonna have to cut people's salaries and pensions all the time and raise taxes a little bit. I'm just asking the question of what's better -- should we once put two-and-a-half billion euros together and get over that cost and then free people and have items in the investment budget and not have to cut people's salaries and pensions or say so -- we're not going to sell. It's not that it's being sold because it's going to be, it's what it has to be, because these loans have been taken and it's over now. Whoever took it, that's another question. Now it has to come back. If we can't go back through accelerated economic activity, because we don't have enough money now to invest more in agriculture, let's at least deprive ourselves so that we have more to invest in both the economy and the agriculture, to speed up economic growth and make it possible for people to live. Because if people's salaries and pensions are going to be reduced for the rest of their lives, what's the point? It is now a fundamental issue and a very important issue. I'm very well-intentioned about it. If there was a choice who would suggest selling some property, and when you don't have a choice, when you're in debt to your throat, you'll have a problem like I had as a finance minister. In May of the month, I realized that what we did last year's free program, which you supported, would also be this one if we don't pay off. So it takes two things at once to part and encourage investment in agriculture and economy and to have growth and deleveraging. Both simultaneously. Whoever's in the government won't be successful if he doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29912	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29913	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, you see, it's very difficult to defend the economic programs when they defend you like this. I appreciate everything you say, your arguments, your facts, your very decent discussion, you mostly use the arguments, and then it hangs two of those five hundred pounds around your legs and makes you jump 12 meters away. You can't do that without weights, let alone with weights. When we talk about this amendment proposed by Mr Dinkic, I am very sorry, but my colleagues obviously from the SNS do not distinguish between investors and creditors. So those who invest are the ones who bring their money here and run some kind of investment for that money. Creditors are the ones who lend you loans, as they show very unfavourable and very limited. So you can't keep your pre-election promises. You know, Mr. Krstic, as promised, since you didn't participate in the election campaign, do you know how much SNS promised foreign direct investment during the first four years of its term? Do you happen to know that information? I'll tell you -- 100 billion euros. Now ask yourself if it is realistic that a country the size of Serbia expects 100 billion foreign direct investment. How many million of those billions have you provided Serbia for now? They were very insecure promises to you in the ranks of those for three dinar bread. You know, last time they won the election, a promise of three dinar bread, so as soon as they came to power, it turned out different. It's not a burning reminder. I know sometimes it's not pleasant, but it's not burning. You gentlemen don't distinguish between investments and loans and that's your big problem. Another problem for you is that these foreign investments for our government's past term have been fiercely challenged. I want to read you your words, what you said about the flag. Only, he says, will the air in those tires be ours, and this will never be felt on the growth of the gross social product of the Republic of Serbia, and you know how they are now and how they feel the various economic benefits of these investments, which both Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic and the complete government have stood for. It is important to think about the opposition's amendments, whether proposed by G 17 plus, or DS, or the URS, but it is very wrong to defend these amendments by respecting what was in the past. That's one bad approach. A methodologically bad approach, because you should tell the citizens of Serbia what you will do in 2014 and not what happened in 2010, 2008 or 1999. That's what Serbian citizens do, when they open their wallet, they don't care. They just want to know what's gonna happen in 2014? Do you know what the date is today? December 12th. It'll be New Year's Eve in 20 days. With the fear of Serbian citizens, they are waiting for the New Year. There's not a bit of that New Year's atmosphere on the street. You have mistreated the cities of Serbia, in which you are in power. As our people would have said, long ago, we used this authority to defile the tree. She's not even here for New Year's Eve. With some puzzling sadness, they send out this year 2013 and are waiting with great uncertainty in 2014. And when New Year's greetings arrive in terms of an increase in property tax of 180%, because you don't know how else to charge for your incompetence, only across the back of citizens, then the citizens of Serbia, when they open their wallet, will really see what they got from the SNS promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29914	Word by MP Veroljub Arsic, replica Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic. [[Janko Veselinović, from the site: I asked for a replica of Mr Arsic's presentation.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29915	You're more parliamentaryly prone to MPs. Mr. Arsic spoke. It wouldn't be right if he talked twice without me answering, but I'll use half my time just to help Mr. Arsic. So, the Emirates didn't invest just 15m euros, as you said. They've invested 16 and a half million. Did you accidentally or deliberately forget the million-and-a-half euros, I don't want to get into it, but I'll just remind you of the investment that's going on. It's about buying a hotel in the bathroom. Its estimated value is 5m euros, the sheik bought it for a million and a half euros, and the State Property Directorate bought it first for two million euros. So 16 and a half million were invested by the Emirates. One more thing. Mr. Arsic, you say you're in debt because we're in debt. Let's say 15 billion euros was our total debt, and now it's 20.5. How do you owe yourself, please, if it's 20 billion now, and when we were 15 billion? Well, I guess it would be normal if it were 10 billion euros now. What's with the math? I really am a lawyer and math isn't my strong suit, but it seems to me, it's pretty simple and try, please, to explain that phenomenon to us. How do you deprive yourself of it, and you owe it more and more?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29916	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously there are some differences here in the understanding of the exercise of power. I was going to say that the state is not private property. It's not private. You're talking about the 15 billion debt, well, that you left behind. You've left a new 400,000 without a job. That same Republic Statistics Bureau says so, based on which you calculated our public debt. You left us empty factory halls in "21. May" both in IMR and in “dragon” and the Meat Industry Požarec and in the Požarec cattle food factory. You wanted to leave even the workers in the pyrotic Tiger without a job. You've been making losses there, and now you're talking about taking care of those workers. You don't have to worry anymore. Ever since we changed your director, we've put a leg on a capital agent, that firm has paid off all its debts, its workers are now working and 2/3 of its production goes into export. That's what we do, and that's what you do. That's the difference between us. Those who boast about two billion investments, just to remind me -- when did you start those investment cycles? In 2007, the U.S. It took you four years to prepare yourself to attract these two billion, which did not lead to GDP growth in 2011, or to increase employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29918	Srdjan Milivojevic and Janko Veselinovic signed up from the DS. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: By amendment. ) Well, then the word has a People's MP, Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29919	Now I'm really saying I won't answer on this subject again. At the time of the economic crisis in Europe, 10 million people were out of work. During that period, Serbia was not an isolated island either. In Serbia, half the people are out of work, as Mr. Arsic says, and these are statistics that are accurate. Your colleague said he heard from some 400,000 people and you're repeating them in a row. So that data's not true, it's half the figure. But what's controversial is that in Europe, when they started to get out of the crisis, the process of firing workers stopped and a slight employment rate started, it increased. Unlike us, when the crisis in Europe and the world has stopped, unemployment growth has increased more than during the crisis. So some unemployment rate was about 6% in that period, and in the meantime that rate increased to another 6.5%. So while others were recovering, we, even though the crisis was over, continued to fire people. For what? Because we had an incompetent government. Meanwhile, in Europe, they have brought governments that have pulled them out of the crisis, and we have come from a government that is changing, reconstructing, installing, moving and pulling us into a deeper crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29920	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29921	Mr. Veselinović, I just can't help but answer you. In 2008, when the crisis started in Europe, you know what they did in Germany? They changed the labour law, changed it before. Do you know what else they did? They had layoffs, they redecorated their state sector, they cut salaries. We see what happened in Portugal, we see what happened in Greece, we see what happened in Ireland. That's what happened. It didn't happen to us because we had luft, not because someone who was in power was extremely good. No, because we had luft. We were free to be in debt, because we were at a relatively low borrowing rate, because we went from one transition because most of our debts were cut off and we simply had space, i.e.. You had space where you could run around for about four years, do whatever you still don't have to take any heavy steps Europe has taken. Then you can't expect the situation if you do different things in Europe to be the same as with us after this crisis in Europe is over. So that's the situation we're in. So now we have to do what the rest of Europe did in 2008, when he saw that the whole world went into recession, and we used it as our development opportunity. The global economic crisis was our great development opportunity. So, since we're in this situation right now, I'm not going to run away from it, or run away from it. Mr. Dinkic, my predecessor needed it, since the government was founded until May, eight months, a year, I don't know what it is, to understand and start sweating his palms like I'm sweating today, what it takes to do to prevent the worst. So now we're talking about some inheritance sale, we're talking about new borrowings, we're talking about an increase in income, or new employment, that analogy with household. It's not a matter of choice. We have to do everything. We've been put in a situation where we have to do all that. There's no choice. So I didn't come here with the illusion of becoming popular and being popular. I also know how to propose wage cuts, tax hikes aren't something anyone does, or someone who claims to be a politician, let alone politicians, and this government is behind these measures. We're doing this because it's necessary, because it's only possible, because we've found ourselves in a situation where nothing else is possible, because we don't have room for maneuvers that would allow us to behave differently. We're going to look for cheaper loans and what we're doing is a huge part of the time spent by the entire government, a disproportionately large part of the time spent by the entire government, attracting foreign investments, finding cheaper loans, etc. That's right, because it's necessary, because it's inevitable. We're working on it, and we'll work on it. Investments that we need are investments such as “Fiyats”, such as this investment that will pull a lot behind it, which will trigger the entire economy, i.e. certain branches that we define as priority or which we have identified as priority. So we don't just need what we're talking about, so don't play with the numbers. If someone comes in and makes a brownfield investment, or buys a private firm, we count it, and it's good for our balance of payments as a direct investment. These aren't new jobs. So, the situation where we are now and this whole discussion, the situation we're in, I don't think it's an adequate situation to discuss who's promised, who's what, and I think the situation is that we need to focus and implement the things that we said we'd do. So we have to do a lot of things, too much to argue about whether it could have been done before and how possible and whether this government has been guilty in the last 100 days, or whether this government has been guilty in the last year and given, or whether we've all been guilty for the last five years. So, no. We adopted here last week a set of laws that allow this budget. We have to adopt this budget this week. We must try to find cheap sources of funding that mean that we will behave responsibly and do things we have not done before, first and foremost, to solve, in a responsible and socially responsible way, the issue of enterprises in restructuring. I don't have a problem admitting in the budget that we might need money for that, that we might need severances for those workers. I hope it's not going to work to make it as few workers as possible, but I also think it would be epochally irresponsible to hide it or to lose all credibility, or to simply sit on our own hands and let us have that irresponsibleness, or because we might want to get local elections in one place or another. I'm not talking about this now that's happening, or we want to win, and I don't know what to stop us from facing our own reality. It doesn't matter who got us. It's important that we get out of here. That's why I'm calling for the discussion to come back on the subject. We talked about something that's very valid, we talked about what alternatives are, it's 621, but it's not these 621 that you had a chance to talk to the Minister of Economy. That is, what are the targets that we can stabilise the path of public debt and how we're going to do it and what's right, whether it's the right thing to commit, or not commit to that kind of thing, these are legitimate questions. We can have different opinions. The rest is politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29922	Thank you. Let me just read the order. The first will have the right to Veroljub Arsic on the replica Janko Veselinovic, after which Janko Veselinovic will go to the ministerial exhibition, followed by the next order – Marko Atlagic, Aleksandar Radojevic, Milan Lapčević, Srdjan Milivojevic. So, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29923	Here I am again agreeing with my colleague, Veselinović. According to then Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Serbia left the crisis in 2011, and then the most workers were out of work. We've reached 26.8% of the unemployed of the total working population. Today it's about 24%, and it certainly isn't the credit of the previous government. I'd like to say a few more things. I fully agree in one piece with the minister, but he cannot understand that colleagues in the former regime are persistently trying to credit their merits to this government. We do not desire your merits. That's your credit. We won't wish for yours for a moment, and no moment has it occurred to anyone in the SNS that the people and the states are getting poorer and the politicians who are leading the country are getting richer. That's the difference in seeing things between you and me. Why didn't those who exercised power on behalf of the DS treat the state like their firms, answer me? As for Mr. Minister's presentation, I think the growth of gross products is a good basis for this program that you have, that 4% inflation at the level of the year, a good basis for these programs you have. Also, Mr. Minister, I think a stable exchange rate is also a good basis for these programs you have, and I also think that reducing the trade deficit is a good basis for these plans and programs you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29924	The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29925	Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I really think this debate is about the subject and you said your palms are sweating and it's a good thing your palms are sweating, it is warm here, and unfortunately, many citizens are sitting in cold rooms today, because they don't have the money to pay for gas or other heating. That's our problem. On the other hand, you compared Germany and some other European countries. Mr. Krstic, I don't think we've taken their footsteps, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't remember the German government raising VAT, at that price of basic life supplies. I'm not sure the other countries that, I say, the champions in some economic growth after this crisis have applied the measures you apply or the predecessors before you do. It's a social imbalance, putting burdens on citizens who are the hardest to live. So, putting a burden on those who are hard to survive anyway. These are your economic measures. We don't see any other measures, Mr. Baptizer. In this package of yours, you didn't have a single measure of support for small medium-sized entrepreneurs and employment. Your balance of this budget is 7.1% of the deficit, which assumes a new borrowing, Mr. Minister. (President: Time. ) With the burden shift on citizens, it means less purchasing power, less jobs in the next period, and it is not the way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29926	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29927	All I'm saying is that Germany has changed the labour law, it's working. Not to mention all other things, we're not Germany, but take other examples of these countries that were in crisis, as we were in crisis in 2008, even though we might not fully admit it, they did all without exception increase VAT. Look what happened to Greece, with the public sector in Greece. I wouldn't want it to happen here, and that's why I'm doing what I'm doing. In the budget, to go back to that, apropo of your comments, we have planned money next year for exactly the poorest of energy, we have for the energy-protected buyer defined the funds, which is the new social programme, we have for small and medium-sized businesses the app, which is up to 500 million euros of cheap loans up to 1% to 2%, depending on how much banks then add to it, but it won't be too much, 3% to 4% with a handout that is unprecedented on our market, so none of those things you said, unfortunately, or fortunately, it doesn't stand. That's all I wanted to fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29928	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29929	Here, we'll go back to the amendment. When it comes to duty, let me, however, present some information because the predecessors were really incorrect, especially when it comes to the previous speaker. It is true, Mr. Krstic, what you just said, that Serbia, let's say, is the only country in Southeast Europe that has failed to repay public debt in the period from 2008 to 2011. Is there anyone in this room who doesn't know this information, especially the one who deals with the economy? I don't think so, and that's really okay. I'm not going to go in who's to blame, I guess we know that, but let me say that in 2008, in 2008 26.3% of GDP, i.e. 8.8 billion euros, 2009 - 32.9%, 2010 - 41.5%, 2011 - 48.7% and 2012 - 60%, estimates are now in 2013. So 17.7 billion. Why do I say that about the budget and this debt in the budget? It was made here in the budget that the debt of 662 billion dinars. That's over five billion euros. Gentlemen of the DS, when you ask why we're in charge, 480 billion to pay back these debts that I was talking about in 2008 or 4.2 billion. Check and calculate well, and you'll see what's going on. This isn't just about this 17 billion. It's not exactly that MP he said - from another Tito 15 billion. Comrade Tito died a long time ago. It's a multibillion double. And not only these 17, there is a debt to the economy of 20 billion euros. You've seen the total GDP these days, but let's leave it alone. What I'm trying to say is that the government made a very good plan, because we've come to a break-in. A rescue plan not to break in, for this year, for 2015 and 2016, and in 2017 we will stop this fall etc. So it's not just these 17 billion, it's because factories, banks have been destroyed and, worst of all, the state institutions for which we rehabilitate them will take a long time. I guess we all agree on that, huh? As for the debt in the budget, I think the government is aware of macroeconomic situations when it has made this budget and this debt and situation which is much worse, as the government has announced. It's worse than it was six months ago, and it's even expected to be worse even in the future, and the government is aware of that. That's why she provided cheaper borrowing. I don't want to say who they are, you know it very well, because the minister said it too. These are positive loans from the World Bank, but also from the Russian Federation and another source of budget financing, bilateral arrangements of individual countries, etc., not to mention that. I don't suppose you, gentlemen of the DS, are going to convince the citizens of Serbia that these data isn't right and that we, who are trying to do this statistics in some way? It is true that you have destroyed our future. You destroyed our present, the future of our children. If you had only stayed in power for a year, you would have destroyed the Serbian roots, but that didn't work out for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29930	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29931	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I have long since called to submit to my predecessor's discussion, Mr. Dinkic. So that I don't get it wrong, I'm having the most deliberate discussion. I am also for "Fiat", both for "Mercedes" and for all investments that bring something to Serbia. I simply wanted to ask, at your exposure to a 500m-euro Serbian investment, how much is a cost-effective investment for the next five, ten, fifteen years, how much will we get at the profitability rate for Serbia, for the Serbian budget, to charge the Serbian budget? That was my question, not to say that it's not a good story with both the Fiat and Mercedes and any other foreign company that brings fresh capital, fresh programs and products. As for imperial sales, I don't think it's good to sell what's called a factory, what's called land, which is called some basic product that needs to produce a product that needs to be sold. I don't think it's good to go at all costs for sale if there's no good customer, if there's not a good customer's program and there's no good guarantee for that buyer who's going to buy it and do something about it. In that sense, I think we should at all costs value more foreign than domestic. There are still experts in this country, and there are still workers in this country, quality labour quality programs that need not be imperatively relied on only those who come from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29932	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29933	We fully support the concept that Serbia should pay as little interest as possible on its duties. In that sense, we are prepared to support the amendment proposed, to take new loans at more favourable interest rates to deprive those who were with huge interest, with one small condition. We need to be implemented by the amendment promoter who owed Serbia seven billion euros from 2008 to 2012? What ruling coalition then ruled? Which government has approved debts that have 6.95, 7.28% interest, so now we're going to take cheaper loans and pay back those loans that have huge interest rates? It also tells us how early Serbia paid off its debts by 2008 and it had only 14 billion tight interest rates, and from 2008 to 2012, it owed seven billion euros and it has 92 billion interest rates? For the following year, 114 billion dinars or billions of euros are scheduled. When this is made clear to us, then we can be absolutely sure that this concept is correct and we will support it in our best interest, to return early loans to the cheaper and to relieve the country of huge interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29934	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29935	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is obviously some colleagues in this room who do not understand that the capital market regulates and interest and that the world capital market at a time of great demand raises interest, and at a time of reduced demand reduces interest. It's one basic legality when it comes to any goods, even money. When the DS took responsibility for managing this country, interest was what they were and you couldn't find more favourable interest and more favourable loans. Today the interest capital market is much more favourable, but I have to answer. I'm sorry Professor Atlagic's not here, but I have to answer him. You know, it's too dangerous a theory when someone says -- we've taken over a country with collapsed state institutions, and if the DS had only stayed in power for a year from Serbia there would be nothing left. I have to ask him if institutions are building by returning dignity to the National Assembly, which returns dignity to other institutions, which returns dignity to the Republic of Serbia by returning to international communities, returning to international organisations or showing responsibility to one state by leading a policy that directly leads to sanctions, statements from the world between international organisations and forums? Of course this other thing is right and it's right what the DS was doing. If the policy he represented was still in force in 1999, NATO would not be able to build this bridge on Ada, nor would we be able to repair those bridges that that policy has destroyed, thinking about bridges to Europe and bridges to a better life, as well as those bridges that have been destroyed by some in this room. I am sorry that there is only a representative of the Tomislav Nikolic faction here, so I cannot explain to them that the meaning of economic policy is the basis for conditions for citizens to live better, not for politicians and political parties to live better. Today we live worse than yesterday and you now assure us that we should save three years to live even worse. I'm sorry, it's not clear to the citizens of Serbia. I guess you're giving up something if you're going to live better, but to give up something to live worse, you can't explain it to Serbian citizens. You can't explain to the pensioners that they have to save and suffer to live worse in 2017 than they do today. With this government, it's certain they'll live up there. Finally, your budget, Mr. Krstic, has no developmental component and that's what I said and in the debate in principle. It's like having a boxing match with a World Boxing Champion, and then you and I are taking part, and the coach prescribes a diet for you, and he says to me, "You're a little fat and there's no need to go to the gym, you're going to get out and you're going to fight." You can't do it without the development component in the budget, and we're conceptually different, not politically, to be clear, I absolutely accept that you as an economic expert have the right to your economic concept. It is your legitimate right and you stand firmly behind this concept of yours and you will answer to both the citizens of Serbia and parliament for their economic views that will prove to be wrong. But your colleagues from the SNS are political attitudes and political qualifications that they can't convince anyone. First, they don't believe it themselves, let alone try to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Which of Serbia's citizens are you going to convince that they should pay a bigger tax, that they should give up and that their purchasing power is less? How will you explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they have to pay higher VAT on bread, rabbit, sugar, how will you start the computer industry in the Republic of Serbia with an increase in VAT for computer equipment? Who's gonna come out of the world to invest? Nobody. You don't have investors, you just have creditors, and that's your basic problem, that you haven't learned anything from countries that have survived the global economic crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29936	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29937	I've heard everything now. Where are your investors, where have they gone? Where's that gross product of yours? Where are those 200,000 new jobs? There's 400,000 missing after your government. Is that what you're talking about? Where are the companies that worked? They're gone. What are you talking about? Where are our stock reserves? Stolen. You're talking about the reconstruction of bridges. Some have built a bridge on Gazela before you reconstructed it. They used to make Gazela. In four years, 10km of highway, from Preshev to Vranj. It ends in 2014. In a year and a half. What are you talking about? Institutions, are the courts of the institutions? They did. What did you do? Unconstitutionally appointed president of the VCC. Is that an institution's defense? You cleared 700 prosecutors, solved 700 judges unconstitutionally. Same argument for judges, 700 and the same explanation for prosecutors, 700. Whoever wrote it should be ashamed of him. You chose to be president of the V.C. What are you talking about? President of the Republic, an institution belonging to the DS. Now you have the president of the Republic of Serbia who belongs to everyone. He's not a member of the SNS. Yours was president of both Serbia and the parties. What did you do with people at barricades? First they put them on barricades and then removed them. We now have a problem with the EU to convince them of honesty, but not because of us, but because of your earlier dishonesty. Talk about these bridges a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29938	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29939	When we talk a little bit about the institution of the President of the Republic of Serbia, I was proud of the President of the Republic who didn't have to break his arms by talking to the President of the United States but knew English. I was very proud of it when he left when he met with him, he didn't have to wait for the funeral to lurk with all the camera from the end to jump him so he wouldn't take a picture at the funeral as the first shovel in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29940	Please, Mr. Millyvoy, no offense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29941	I had a president of the Republic who didn't tire out so much on international roads, so he knew who was coming to visit him. See today “Blic”, you do not know who is coming to your guests, whether sheik is from Dubai or someone else. It's important that the sheik is and you're going to sing that song of Brenna "Shecky, Shaqi So give you Allahaha some money", if you can fill a bag for us to be, we'll give you another hotel on the Kopalnik. That's not how institutions are built. That's not how institutions are made. That's how institutions are destroyed, just like institutions were destroyed when they went out in 1999 to see students with hackers and to a taxi driver with a gun. That's what Serbia hasn't forgotten. There's no styrofoam he's going to sit on right now to convince us that he's the one who's going to bring institutions here, build investors. There's no Styrofoam. The styrofoam can be as thick as it wants, but there's no isolation that can reach the brain. We remember very well what happened in 1999 and 1998. I understand the fascination of the bridge. Do you know the Petrovaradin Bridge in Novi Sad? The Jell-O Bridge in Novi Sad? A bridge of freedom? A bridge on the Miatovac on the Great Morava? Do you know the bridges around Kruševac, Barbarian, Triestenik, on Racine near Kruševec? Do you know who broke them with his politics? I'll tell you, Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, and then I understand the fascination when someone builds a bridge that hurts you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29942	Time. National MP Veroljub Arsic and I am closing the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29943	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when Boris Tadic was such a good president, why did you replace him? Come on, explain it to me. Why did you replace him? I really don't get it. Maltene made it from a client. How come when he was such a good president to lose to Tomislav Nikolic directly in the elections? Now he'll never beat him again. I guarantee you, he'll never be able to beat him again. Why did you elect the Constitutional Court judges on the key - to give a constitutional provision that the President of the Republic could be elected for the third time because of a change in the Constitution? By that key, you chose the judges of the Constitutional Court. Those who rebelled against it were removed, even though they were proposed by Boris Tadic here. If the professor said at the lecture – an unconstitutional part of the law being implemented for the implementation of the Constitution, which refers to Boris Tadic being elected for the president for the third time, he could no longer pass in this assembly as a candidate judge for the Constitutional Court. Is the Constitutional Court an institution? Yes, it is. If your entire success is to spend half a billion euros on one bridge in the five years you've been in power, then you should be ashamed. You can talk about bridges all you want, people won't talk about you anymore. I'm not saying you individually. I'm not saying DS is criminalized, but those who ruled on behalf of the DS have done so much to the people that it will hardly forgive you as your foreign people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29944	The next reported MP is Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29945	Dear Chairman, I came forward after my predecessor's previous discussion of a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a violation of the Parliament's dignity, Art. 106th and 107th. I don't know what kind of glasses a colleague is looking through, so here he sees the faction of Tomislav Nikolic. I really think it is clear to all of us that there are no factions in the SNS of Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. Unfortunately for you, SNS is a very homogeneous and compact party and completely unique. Where are your factions, turn left and right and look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29946	Please don't use the Rules of Procedure's breach institute to replicate. National MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29947	By amendment. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected MPs, is an amendment that provides for the detachment of more favourable previous loans, certainly good and positive. I think that's what's gonna happen and the government's gonna take it. When we talk about a subject like this, I don't think we should deal with the distant past and not too close and bring in the bile. What we need to do and what we need to do is the present. The present difficult environment in which our economy operates, Minister, and you know it. When we talk about the present and the MPs need to know that, and the public, since the beginning of the year, the loss of the economy has increased by 77.5%. I don't know how the government plans to make the revenue it's projected, but those revenues won't happen, like they didn't happen this year, so neither will the next one, and the question is whether there's going to be zero growth or there's going to be recession. You must know that. Street devisors showed up. You must know that. It's a clear sign where Serbia is returning. Unchargeable loans this year from 16% increased to 24.5%. It's facts, and everything else is bickering, floscule, accusations that we look at every day in the various tabloids created by one party. Three days ago, the state sold state records with a 10.5% interest rate. At 10.5%, and we're talking about unfavourable loans being 6% interest. I think that makes it clear how this country manages its finances and you can't just take responsibility for the period since you're the minister when it comes to this government's policy because that responsibility has been going on since the start of this government's formation. That reconstruction for us and the citizens doesn't matter at all. Finally, Mr. Minister, if you are already referring to Germany and their financial and economic policy and measures, it is known that Germany is a social market economy that has two components. One is the market, and the other is the social aspect, citizens and harsh negotiations on the minimum labour price. You can't, on the one hand, squeeze until you give in to the other and you can't shut down the entire valve to the citizens. You can't raise VAT and make it possible to increase inflation prices and at the same time lower wages, force the economy into gray and black flows, and then they're finally citizens at a loss. Without consumption, the economy can't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29948	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29949	About the data, you're right, and that's what we want here. That's what I said. I'm not prejudged at this point, nor do I want to reevaluate the outcome of the debate that we need to have about how we want it to be our arrangement, or our social compact as such, whether we're going to be more like France, Germany or England. Unfortunately, that discussion, the luxury of having that discussion, we won't, and you heard it from the prime minister in the exposé, until we clean the house, as I said. I wanted to be very clear, if you mean an auction that was on December 10th, it's two-year dinar bonds that have a different interest rate than Euro Bonds that are being broadcast on the international market. We had a demand bigger than the offer. The offer was 10 billion. We sold 7.2 billion. We sold at a rate of 10.09%, which is a key piece of information. It's less 0.61% or bips than the last show of that manual. To translate, it means that we have a greater demand, that investors think we have less risk than we had last time we had that same show and the same manual. That's good news, not bad news.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29950	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29951	For methodological correctness to say that the lower interest rate is because inflation is 0.6% in November. We had a deflation in November, so the annual inflation is 1.6%. Since 1.6% is annual inflation, and you sold 10%, it's not exactly a approximate category. It's lower because inflation used to be higher. Tell me how many euro bonds you sold five-year-olds, and can you continue to be in debt, finance the deficit on a permanent basis? Very difficult and therefore accept the amendment to the URS and charge 2.5 billion euros because otherwise all this is expensive. Those 10 are expensive from the inflation rate of 1.6%. The euro bond interest was slightly higher than 4.7% the last time it was. They're all high interest rates. The real solution is courage. You can't do this, but the government has to say -- we want to borrow 2.5 billion euros and then we empower the finance and business minister, whoever it is to do it. In the end, the finance minister has to do it technically, but he must have political will. There's probably no political will, like it wasn't when I was the finance minister. Well, that's an open-minded thing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29952	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29953	Eurobonds are, you know, issued with identical risk, premium, as well as previous Eurobonds issued, when the situation was better by definition, because we had a smaller public debt. But, well, we didn't brag about it, and neither did you when you issued those Eurobonds. Anyway, they're high interest rates. Just to be clear, I don't think we have a methodological difference. Your amendment applies to you suggesting that we tie our hands on some things to a certain deadline, and if we don't have to do that, in the next one, which I think would be good if the conditions are good, but only if the conditions are good. I see no reason for the government to accept such an amendment, which does not mean that the Government will not act in this direction, which is perfectly left as space and, in the end, stated in the fiscal strategy, which is a document adopted by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29954	Thank you. The word has Mladjan Dinkic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29955	Try to think a little differently. If you put privatisation revenues into the plan for next year, so you may not be satisfied with the price, as the fellow MP says – you will not have any property and no value to sell, I agree. What's gonna happen? Nothing. On the contrary, you have room here to do it and end it. In the budget, you create a space for possible sale of parts of state property and early deleveraging. If you don't put that on, then you have to come back to the Assembly to do rebalancing. Technically, you're calling yourself a problem. The way of thinking is – put this on, open the space, you will not sell if they are not good conditions, if you are not satisfied, they will remain in the budget. The point that privatisation revenues are planned does not affect the budget deficit, so do you and I. If you make your income, they're below your line, you pay back the main debt below the line, and you solve the debt issue. But that's how you would morally oblige the government to think about it and to do it. This way, if there's no obligation, no one will even think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29956	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29957	Let me just say, how we think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29958	Thank you. The next reported is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29959	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am fascinated by that part of the story about Germany, which is constantly referred to as an example. It can be said freely that Germany has not even felt the global economic crisis, that it has constantly recorded the growth of gross products, and that German state charters are now of value with negative interest. So whoever wants to buy those records will not only pay for the paper but when they come to pay, they'll get less money than they've invested in the paper. I know that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic tried the same thing as Germany. Germany shot down the euro on the world stock market. By taking down the euro on the world market, it has been able to provide a very large placement to its automotive industry, which is known to be one of the most complicated and co-operatives after the aviation industry. So they managed to keep their capacity busy and the world’s markets flooded with their cars. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic has done something else. They knocked down the dinar, but before they took down the dinar, they gave the economy subsidized loans in euros. So when they knocked down the dinar, that loan was not more expensive than the one unsubsidized, but many companies closed down. To make things worse, the same government spent 4.5 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves on defence of the dinar course, which in the meantime cost 50% of the euro compared to the dinar. Obviously, something was missing in the concept between the Serbian government and the German government. You want me to tell you what? We had nothing to sell. Nothing in Serbia worked. We didn't have anything to take out. We didn't have any workers. We didn't have any factories. I'm sorry the Minister of Agriculture isn't here. I'd like to ask him something, too. Is warfare the only branch of agriculture? Is there a higher form of agricultural production? What about livestock? What about the slaughterhouse industry? Large cattle in Serbia are gone and gone. This is certainly not the result of the work of the current minister, but of various buyers and dealers who have imported maltene poison into Serbia, due to lack of control of agricultural products. Let MPs wonder what MOM is in the butcher's industry. What is made of and how many of our children and our fellow citizens have consumed and what is its health function. We have two incomparable things, two incomparable economies. What we need to rely on right now is the advantages we have. It's sad that we missed four years when we could do anything, and we did nothing, and nothing would have been better if it hadn't been done and the damage and now there's only one problem left – how do we get out of this whole circle? It might seem funny to you that we're looking for partners all over the world. Anyone who wants to help, in any way to invest in Serbia, is welcome. We don't have problems with Chinese loans, we don't have problems with Russian loans, we don't have problems with their investments, we don't have problems with anyone who wants to do something in Serbia. Not to mention that earlier capital was blocked, watched where it came from, and where it was expected that it was coming from, it was mostly leaving because it had to pay various fees to various politicians, so we became a country that was at the top of corruption in all the statistics in the world. That's the reputation SNS is talking about. We want that part of the reputation back, that there's a rule of law here, not a factory closing down. What would it look like to someone who wants to invest in Serbia at that time when they find out that the state shut down a man's factory with 400 workers, two billion traffic, 400 million net profits? The state doesn't touch, 40 million gets from that factory. It was closed because he didn't want to work with Delta and because he was the competition "Matijević". It is the largest slaughterhouse in Serbia without the AP Vojvodina. Did you know about that? Who was the minister? Sasha Dragin. Who was the director of the Veterinary Authority? Mr. Micevic. The inspectors say -- what do we do, we have to close this down, we're not workers of the Ministry of Labour and Employment, we're workers of the Ministry of Agriculture. That may seem funny to you, but when you close one such facility you destroyed, not just 400 workers, but about 25 to 30,000 cooperatives who are now victims of various buyers and resellers because they have no one to sell their goods to. We can talk about this gray zone. It's just not generated by this government. It's the backdrops of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Be realistic. For what I'm telling you, I can prove materially with the papers of the state how you did and how you ruled. You made laws for individuals. So I'm very surprised by this story about this comparison of the economy and the social programme. But as far as I can see, the new minister has a desire to learn something from that German experience, something that can be applied to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, from something that the Republic of Serbia can benefit, not damage as it was in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29960	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador Ivan Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29961	Replica, I've come to the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29962	Mr. Jovanovic, I followed closely, you only called after Mr. Dinkic's presentation, so I can't tell you the line, I would have called you sooner.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29963	Mr. Arsic, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29964	Mr. Arsic didn't mention you at all. So all you can do is talk and waste the time of the parliamentary group. All right, then, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29965	First of all, I think we should get back on the subject, because I hope Snow White has woken up from a two-year-old dream since she came to power and we can start talking the way we need to solve the problems that exist in the economy. These days, that is, these months, there has been a growing repression on those economic operators who can do business, primarily tax administrations, in order to fill in the state's incomes. That's why I have 53,149 economic operators in the blockade today. That's another piece of information that's the work of this government. We don't need to talk about the past, our colleague knows how to dramatize and how to increase. But if we are talking about agriculture, we should say that this government is reducing the subsidy budget by three billion, that the aflatoxin affair has cost several billion, which you have made, all of it costs, Serbian citizens, the economy of Serbia and costs this budget, we need to talk about these topics. We need to talk about what models are and what solutions are, not falsely accused, and make out all kinds of data that appear on the tabloids, some information that should be spoken of in the Serbian Parliament. I don't think we're going anywhere if I talk to you that way, Mr. Minister. As far as your answer is concerned, the second part I did not get, and it is a social and market economy, because there is no social component if VAT increases 2%, if a solidarity tax is introduced, it will cost citizens of Serbia 1.5%, 6% of GDP. It's somewhere in the dinars for an average citizen of about 3,000 dinars for the average family, that's what it's gonna cost. Because it's not just the basic foods, the consumer basket that increases the lower VAT base, but also the municipal costs, that's the other overhead costs. Virtually every family in Serbia spends 1.5 salaries on the most basic supplies for which the tax increases by 2%. It is certain, I say, that it will cost the citizens more than the 250 dinars you spoke of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29966	Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29967	I don't do tabloids. I deal with facts. I will now say what the industry was called, "Meat Industry Damjanovic", it was closed by Mr. Micovic, and Mr. Minister Sasa Dragin. “Mom” is machine-cleaned meat, and it is made by grinding chicken latrines in a corner together with bones, full of antibiotics and additives, and serves to increase the mass slightly without damaging the quality, provided that it is in some normal proportion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29968	Mr. Arsic, I'm really obliged to warn you that we're talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29969	He's not talking about the tabloids, but I answer to what Mr. Jovanovic said about me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29970	You didn't get the right to a replica, and you got the right to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29971	You didn't give me the right to a replica? So for you, Madam Chairman, it's not true when someone says the previous speaker is talking about the tabloids and that's not the reason for the replica. I was talking about facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29972	I'll give you your time back. So I'll remind you of Article 104. There it says “citeing exactly his name, ” let us break the lines, please, and return to the topic of the agenda, in order to be efficient and operational. I'll give you back your time now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29973	Therefore, there's no need to count this time as the time that went in the replica, I'm ending it already. I don't want to derail anymore, I just wanted to say that I'm talking about accurate data. Now that you know the name check on the APR how many employees the company had, how much gross traffic and what was the net profit. What's worse is, not this affair that's related to aflatoxin, but because of this excessive imports of non-quality raw materials to the meat industry, our agricultural production has ceased to exist. That's why we now have problems with the ransom price, the wheat, the corn, the sunflowers, because no one can invest in livestock, because of the experiences they had while your ministers ran the farm.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29974	Anyone else want to say about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want to say that? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dusica Morčev, Miroslav Petkovic and Marko Milutinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29975	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, by draft budget for 2014, you are predicting an increase in borrowing, and we have heard for what reasons, we have heard your argument. We'll make sure that your concept is correct very soon, whether you've really assessed this or whether we're going to have to change something through rebalancing. What's a big problem, which we all agreed on in this room, is the expenditure that needs to be allocated to pay the interest in 2014. Mr Dinkic said it rose from 14 billion to 92 billion by 2012. We haven't heard how that went from 92 to 114 billion, but certainly it's not good, and I guess next year this amount is going to be even bigger. We of the DSS are, in addition to being violated by the Budgetary System Act, which has breached certain legal limits, which are the funds needed for the exchange and payment of interest and the principal debt, have always kept track of, above all, the debt structure. You predict the issue of securities on the domestic market worth 330 billion dinars, which is inadmissible given the interest rate the state pays on those funds. Namely, the interest rate between 10% and 11%, so between these percentage points we think is extremely high, is unfavourable and expensive. I know you're going to tell us that this is necessary for the development of the domestic securities market. It may be good for them, but I want to point out the next problem. I'm afraid this measure will demote both banks and investors to invest in domestic economy. It's the biggest danger that awaits us because of this measure, because who would invest in an uncertain business if the state guarantees a high interest that we will pay 10% or 11%. It is behind this that the placement of funds is completely secure and therefore the DSS proposes this amendment to reduce this amount by 100 billion. I sincerely hope you accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29976	Anyone else want to say that? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want to say that? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want to say that? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want to say that? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29977	Thank you, finally. We believe or not, we're still with Article 2. This amendment concerns Article 2(4), which reads – to finance the budget deficit and to pay off the due credit obligations, funds from the consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia to the amount that does not jeopardise the liquidity of the account may be used during 2014. We propose an amendment to add the words "and according to the pre-known criteria" after the words "account". You have rejected this amendment and in response it states that criteria are already envisaged, i.e. that they can, without jeopardising the liquidity of that account. We don't think that's a criterion. That conditions and the manner in which funds can be withdrawn from the vault must be prescribed. Given that economists have calculated that Serbia is secondly in debt to 97 euros, that since this government, I will not even mention the debt of the previous government headed by Mirko Cvetkovic, but since the government has seen the country's total debt increase by five billion euros. That's very worrying. This also means that the possibility of repaying and serviceing the loan is getting smaller. We therefore believe that the criteria should be defined in advance, therefore the rules and conditions for withdrawing funds from the vault and that in principle the sentence which you answer to can be used to the amount that does not compromise the liquidity of that account does not give rise to any confidence because it is such an enormous debt and Serbia is already a country that is seriously in charge, when looking at the debt relative to the gross social product, so that this sentence and the explanation do not instill any confidence that you will not compromise the vault.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29978	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29979	Let me explain what this is about. So a consolidated vault account involves several different accounts, different users of local self-government, the Republic, etc. So transfers between, or loans between, different users actually prevent, or allow us not to be in debt at times when we don't have any liquidity. We're never in charge of the entire amount, but we're in debt as much as possible, because at some point within the month, any one, there's extra money in certain accounts that isn't used until some day, let's say a week later. During that period, you can borrow from that account unambiguously. So that just prevents you from borrowing from someone on the side, is that all of our money, in the end line, of course, is the interest-free loan. It's the first argument related to this borrowing. The second question I would have had for you, I think that criterion, we went through it of course, that criterion is very adequate, so we must not compromise the liquidity of any of the budget users because some other budgetary user or republican budget as such uses these funds within a day or weeks etc. So the only question is, I don't know what other criteria we should consider here. If you have any suggestions, I'm willing to hear it, but I think this is an appropriate criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29980	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Both MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29981	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 2 The bill defines the sources of which will cover the budget deficit for the repayment of loans and the acquisition of financial assets totalling 662 billion dinars. It is further said that the funds will be provided from both domestic and foreign loans of 264 billion dinars from the issue of domestic euro bonds of 330 billion dinars and from the broadcasting of the euro bonds of 68 billion dinars. We have seen how well he can and how much he can hold a discussion in the Assembly when we talk about how much we're going to have to budget for this year's money to pay out loans to domestic and foreign and even more how much money we need to pay our interest. We always discuss this post, when we're in charge, and when the obligations come. This National Assembly discusses the budget, therefore debates and gives this proposal of responsibilities for these purposes, and therefore the DSS proposed that, in this position after heading 6, paragraph 7, which will be required by the Ministry of Finance to report to the Resorship Committee of the Republic of Serbia, and hence to the entire Assembly and all of us MPs on used loans, on the purpose of approved loans, on paid interest, and on the approved and unused loans, because we are going to get an approved line, there goes interest, i.e. penalty points. It's a cost to us, and we don't use those resources because we don't have any projects. That is why we have made an amendment for the National Assembly to be timely, or once a month informed of the state of use and untapped loans for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29982	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29983	Just to answer, the National Assembly in advance, we as a state cannot be in charge, not even give a state guarantee unless the National Assembly approves it. That's one thing. I am not against this amendment as such, works relating to transparency, and I will also read to you the explanation that you have received, which says that the Ministry of Finance, I am looking at it, but it is published on the page, the Public Debt Administration, because the Ministry of Public Debt, which is part of the Ministry of Finance's body, publishes on the monthly level of credit that we are in charge of and the degree of their exploitation. If that's not the case, we'll make it happen and that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29984	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29985	I understand absolutely what you're saying, Mr. Minister, and I know that from Public Procurement, we can see on the site how much we're in debt and how much credit is used and how much interest is in the balance. Of course, any of us and the citizens can go and see. This is not a form of official report by the Assembly, or the Committee of Assembly on Used and Untapped Credits, for which we here apriors give permission to be in charge. We don't know what interest rates will be on the market when we give permission to charge 662 billion dinars. That's what you in the finance ministry will see, we can't influence whether we're in charge of cheaper or more expensive terms, then we wouldn't have a discussion to discuss now for three hours whether it's more cost-effective to sell state property and pay back expensive loans, or if it's more cost-effective to take a cheaper interest rate on the market where we can, and then pay back expensive loans. So we can't influence that. We can follow up on the official status of duty and then we'd be in that monthly review that would arrive here, if he knew at what interest rates this country is in debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29986	The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29987	I'm just going to talk about this amendment for a little while, and I don't see why you didn't accept this amendment. This has something to do with your explanation for why you refused the amendment I filed with my colleague, Vojić Markovic. You're talking to MPs who don't, they don't give you blanco trust, and they can't trust the Ministry of Finance, and they can't trust you. Now that you've explained to me how funds are withdrawn from the vault, I felt like I'm five years old, so you explain to some kid now that the dice are there, so someone's going to take it, so we're not going to jeopardize it, etc. I suppose you won't, that you're a responsible man, but we don't exactly trust each other, given how economic and financial policy is being run in this country. I don't see what the problem is for you to report to that home that approves and on the monthly level about how these funds are used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29988	Anyone else want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure have been submitted to Article 3 of the amendment by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29989	I ask the Minister and Associates to try to have a draft budget law sent to them at the same time on November 2nd, the amendment to the Government sent on November 28th and the amendment to the Finance Committee on December 12th, to the same part of Article 3rd and to the amendment, and to my concerns regarding the part relating to the business balances, the apportionation for the Public Enterprise "Serbia", the maintenance of the current liquidity. The draft budget, referred to on November 2nd, with the liquidity for "Srbigas" stands at 200m euros, and the amount in dinars. In a proposal for an amendment sent by the government on November 28th, it includes 200m US dollars, USD and a corresponding amount in dinars. The amendment that has just passed, submitted by the Finance Committee, stands at 200m euros. I think the United States would be very pleased if the euro and the USD were the same, but it's not. These aren't the things that are being solved by corrections. This is either an unintended, random surface or a 45m-euro area we don't know where they are. One of those two, no third. My amendment concerns that these 200 million, now I have to say, something, because I have a budget proposal from November 2nd that these are dollars, I have a proposal for an amendment to the government, one of the ten, from November 28th, where these are the euro in the draft budget. In the proposal for an amendment, the government has the dollars, and the Committee on Finance's proposal is again euro. So I ask that 200 million things be given not to "Srbigas" but to spend the start of investments in the construction of the Tent B-3 block of the Radljevo surface digging. I'll tell you why. Because we listen, I often don't know if I'm being praised or sorry by the government, how difficult it is to restructure the public sector and how it's going to start, and it's very difficult in 2014. If you leave this 200 million something in 2014 for "Srbigas", it won't start, or you'll be working on a rebalancing that I hope we'll see clearly whether it's $200 million US dollars or 200m euros. Why do I think this amendment should be accepted? It would first prove to all of us and ourselves that we are really going to start restructuring the public sector. I am the last to look forward to any bad event with the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think it's always a common shame, but I think it's also a common shame that we don't listen to each other, I find it a common shame that we don't see, I repeat, political folklore cannot be used on this subject. There are enough MPs here to ask, because they know that if it continues with 200 million things for the indifference of "Serbiagas", and there is a minister of the economy who says that we will convert it into property, that 49%, not something, but NIS, will no longer be in the hands of the Republic of Serbia. That's a very easy scenario to make. I don't want to put anyone's budget decisions at risk with gas supplies. I don't want to meddle in the political folklore around "Serbiagas", but I want to know if this is going to be 200m euros or if it's going to be $200m. I want to be explained how we will restructure public enterprises during 2014 if we give them subsidies. Unfortunately, we belong, many of us in this room, to a group of people who know how the system works and we don't like what any of what's in the system works. We consider it our obligation, because I repeat, I want a good budget, I want the deficit to be overrated, I want the measures you proposed to succeed, but I have a budget in front of me, where there are no 45m euros and the law that we passed the other day, as a Assembly, where we say we will save 45m euros from pay cuts. That's not what we're doing. We should not listen with half our ears and not be heard, whether we belong to the coalition or to the opposition, that knowing how the budget works, that every objection we make to the budget is not aimed at making the budget worse, or whether the finance minister with the budget is worse, but that it is aimed at making the budget sustainable and that the laws we put next to it are sustainable. Why do we feel that the investment of building the first surface digging block of Radljevo should be started? Because we're going to have a problem with the total amount of electricity we're wasting, if we don't have a dialogue today on how we're going to supply electricity. It's very good, it's perfectly legitimate that the government believes it has solved the energy problem with building the South Stream or with the Energy Agreement with Russia. I want her to solve it like that. That's not enough for what we all know is the situation on the ground. It was one of the motives, with the figures, which in front of me, and before you, completely confused me and left me in doubt what it was really about. I know it's rare to believe in the good intentions that people have, but I really do. Since it has just passed part of the session, where we adopted both amendments, we have adopted an amendment to the government, which speaks of 200m euros, and we have adopted an amendment to the Committee that speaks of 200m dollars, or vice versa. The voting day will have to stop, because now corrections can no longer be made. I know we're gonna find a way to solve this, but I'm asking you to understand that this is a serious matter, which can't be hidden by any political story about how everything will be okay with the budget. I would be most pleased if you would tell me that there is another amendment to the Committee, except for this, which was given to me in the Assembly and that there is another amendment of the Government, except for this, which was given to me in the Assembly, and that I am not right, but I have no other papers, except for these two amendments, one Government, and one Committee, unfortunately, I have no. Why do I feel that it is important to listen carefully, as it is important to read carefully? Because, for example, we joined the vote to increase VAT without hearing the effects of the VAT increase from 18% to 20% from July. A few sentences. I think that these are the things that are important for the minister to share with all of us, not because of us, but because of the citizens, who should understand what indifference is for "Serbiagas" worth 200 million things, that it's the same thing as when in houses, where we live, the son says he needs money for a trip, and then Mom and Dad say we're indivisible or a daughter is looking for shoes, so we're indivisible. So we too are indifferent along with “Serbiagas. ” It is more important that the situation with numbers is clear, as it is important to explain how well the estimated revenues and how well the estimated expenditures we have in the budget are, in total, if we talk about the subsidies that are going, not only in "Srbigas", but also in other public enterprises. I don't want to have rebalancing in June, because I don't have any pleasure in saying I was right, because that means that in June, we all have a lot of bigger problems. I propose a serious dialogue on subsidies, which will be valid all year round, and the stories that will be restructuring we have now. I believe that with dialogue alone, I fully agree with the minister, an open dialogue on everything that awaits us in the future. Only with this mechanism can we do good to each other in this institution, and what is most important to the people we all work for, or to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29990	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29991	The Honorable Chairman, Article 27, but also Article 27, has been injured. 175th and 176th, which concerns budget-making procedures. The reason for this was the amendment of the previous colleague, Mrs. Comic. We also received the budget of the Republic of Serbia with a call for this debate, and with that budget, we received budget rebalance, and in Article 176. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are said to be under the provisions of this Rules of Procedure which governs the procedure for the adoption of the budget. In fact, we have brought the budget and something that really is the budget rebalance, and we have not had the opportunity to submit amendments, or we have submitted amendments to the budget, to certain positions and our amendments have been rejected because the previous text of the budget has not remained the same, because they have, in the meantime, changed that text to amendments, so that we have not been able to submit adequate amendments to the current budget since we did not know what they will write, or we knew it, but in the meantime it has changed. This is the first time in the history of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to put the budget and something called rebalancing in the process at the same time. If it were the corrections that were previously made, changes concerning certain figures, this is about a serious change in the existing budget, changes in positions, and, in the end, some of our amendments have turned them into their amendments by making them, I guess, not to adopt our amendments. But in any case, our normal debate on this budget was disabled because we had... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The parallel and budget and budget rebalancing, and that's what this government is talking about first. I don't think you, the chairman, are to blame for this, but it really is a seriously injured procedure for budgeting this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29992	Thank you. I'll try to answer you. I don't think she's hurt her procedure. In fact, we all got the draft budget law and what Mrs. Komic was talking about earlier. So, in this basic text of the law, there were indeed 200m euros in this article for these guarantees. However, the government intervened with the amendment and changed 200m euros to dollars. The board also intervened on the draft budget law. The Committee cannot intervene on changes that occur in the meantime and are not adopted. So it intervenes on the bill. And the board intervened on the bill and the government intervened on the bill. So, in cleaning up the text, if adopted, there will be coordination. I think I've made myself clear and I don't think the procedure has been broken in that case. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29993	I don't have any problem with us within the Assembly agreeing on what the budget will end up writing, but the procedure has nothing to do with it. The amendment submitted by the Committee leaves the euro. Just before this amendment, and I'm sorry, because after my amendment, I thought it would be the turn of the Committee's amendment, so I'm responding to a correction, in my scenario it was so, that the Committee comes after me, after the amendment I explained. You have adopted an amendment to the government, which is about 200 million US dollars and the Committee's amendment, which is about 200m euros. There are no technical amendments. I'm really asking you, with full understanding that there's been a mistake, that we're still not going so far in the institution. I'm sorry again, because I thought I had a chance to intervene before the Committee's amendment came, and while I was sitting here, I heard you were also reading the Committee's amendment. We have a procedural serious problem with this, but we also have an institutional problem because someone somewhere will mean whether they're dollars or euros. Well, there's only one thing, so we have a problem, not a difference between 200 million dollars and 200 million euros. I am fully agreed that the Assembly decides on this, to declare that we know, but I can only ask you to do such a thing, such as the amendment adopted in the amount of euros and dollars, we do not consider it a technical error because such an attitude implies the right to do so, and what else in the draft budget law can be considered a technical error. I don't think anyone did it on purpose, nor do I find it irreparable, but as a technical mistake, they can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29994	I'll try to explain again. The board intervened on the draft budget law and did not intervene with the 200 million figure at all. The Committee's amendment implies a completely different amendment within the framework of the member on the emission technique. Look. So the Committee couldn't know that the government would propose. So, if we intervened on the basic text of the bill, it cost 200m euros and that's what the Committee did. He couldn't have known that the government would reconsider the government's decision on the amendment. So, I don't think there really was a procedural error. Here, if Minister Krstic wants to explain more in detail? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29995	I'll explain the point. The "Srbigas" is in debt to 200 million, i.e. the projected 200m-dollar guarantee. What happened was there were 200m euros in the original budget text. After further consultations on the assessment of the collection, and in the context of the reprogrammes of public utility debt, etc. We agreed with the Ministry of Energy that we needed less money than originally planned, which is good for us to pass the season and in the context of restructuring. So we didn't predict hundreds and hundreds of millions for "Srbigas", which was the case in previous years. The Government has submitted an amendment in accordance with all the procedures to correct it in Article 3. The Committee itself has submitted an amendment to the Committee which I have accepted and related to a completely different guarantee, which has nothing to do with "Srbigas" as such. As such, I assume it works on the basic text of the law that, as you know, I do not repeat, was delivered on November 1st. It's the text of the law that it worked on. I suppose in the consolidated text, in the end, if these amendments are adopted in the National Assembly, one and the other adopted amendment will be found, since they do not act on the same part of that article. It's from the procedural and the essentials of "Srbigas". To answer another question about the VAT increase effect assessment from 18% to 20%. What needs to be known first is that the revenues were overestimated by the basic budget for 2013. They're overrated even by rebalancing, but good, so the revenue... do not need to mix things up, increase VAT and the fact that revenues are not achieved in the way they are planned with the original budget. That's one thing I want to say. The second thing I'm saying is, there are several factors that have affected it within the VAT as the most important tax form, which is an increase in the share of exporters in the VAT structure, which has increased the vomiting that we give ad conto of it, so in the overall effect of the increase in VAT as such has given a positive effect, i.e. even more negatively, we would have missed revenue even more than we have if it hadn't been raised. There are some quantifications if you want to do this for exportation, share to exporters about 10 billion. There are elements, and we saw that, and it is a problem and a gray economy. To be very clear, I mean smaller than increasing VAT as such, more than the increase we had on the part of excise products, which is why we're taking steps and we have this as a major item which is essential to us to make revenue as planned next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29996	National MP Gordana Komic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29997	Thank you. It would be good if you put it into practice with your colleagues, that clear analysis and governance or management of the explanation can only bring benefits to both the government and the coalition and the opposition, because only what you can measure well can you change afterwards. I'll be back on the amendment one last time, because it's not well measured and it's changed badly. I'll be back on the amendment one last time, because it's not well measured and it's changed badly. The government's amendment was passed, look at the stenogram. He became an integral part of the bill. The Committee's amendment to "Emission Technicals" has left the euro and it refers to the adopted component of the bill. If you follow the stenogram for "Srbigas" goes 200m euros. Since neither we nor you will, and since we all know that the Russians do not lend loans in euros and that they have not heard of the euro, that they love dollars for various, interesting reasons, I ask you not to ignore this situation in the name of seriousness. If you follow a stenogram and we know that the government's amendment was first adopted, where the "Emission Technology" is second place, and the loan is $200 million, then the Committee's amendment, which moves the "Emission Technology". If you move "Emission technique" with your will, which you are right to and which is not without reason, a good amendment, you have simultaneously converted the USD into euro. Just a little bit of will, that's not indecisive, but don't talk about technical error. Once again, thank the Minister for the explanation and for knowing that he will be waiting for my question about the effects of increasing VAT from 8 to 10%. I hope it won't be the same explanation, that we can all manage to reduce the grey economy together, and that this impact on basic foods from 8 to 10% is still a little bit amortised by other measures that are fundamental, not superficial and which would be the result of dialogue between all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29998	Mrs. Comic, since you mentioned a technical error again, none of us, nor the minister, nor I, have said there was a technical error. The moment the Finance Committee sat down and when it decided it had not yet been held by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. So at that point, at no time could it be said that this amendment was becoming an integral part of the bill. Just so it's clear for all of us sitting here and for the public. Does anyone else want a word about the amendment of the People's MP Gordana Comic? The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u29999	So look at the stenogram. It has been said that it has become an integral part of the bill. Please don't get all worked up about something that's easy to check and make a way together to know that this is $200 million. It's not about anyone's intentional error, but it's about having ears that we keep involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30000	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30001	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, this amendment is very important for Nis. This amendment would solve the decades-old problem of Nis. Ministers, you've had a chance to help your hometown and this problem that exists for a very, very long time in Nis to solve. Namely, the railway that cuts Nis into more than 20 places threatens traffic safety, and what is more important is the safety of the Nish citizens. There has been an idea for decades, but a unanimous decision was made at the meeting of the Niš City Assembly in 2010. I repeat, unanimous decision. It is rare in any parliament, especially in Nis to make a unanimous decision. This amendment isn't just mine. I think every National MP from Nis will tell and support this same story, the same defense of this investment. It's illogical for the city to be divided into 20 and some places. Imagine you're going through the boulevard of King Alexander's cargo traffic in Belgrade. Think of Arena as passing cargo traffic with very dangerous chemical materials, with cargo traffic that could endanger the health and safety of citizens. The idea was, in 2010, a unanimous decision was made by the Niš City Assembly to make a bypass and in 2010, an agreement was signed between the "Serb Railway", between the town of Nis and the Republic government, with the aim of removing rail heavy traffic from the centre of Nis, to make a 14km roundabout from the Red Cross to the December. We have already set out as Nisli to implement the project, we have received 9.5m euros from IPA funds, 1.5m euros have gone to documentation, and 8 million for initial works and land expropriation. It takes another 20m euros to do this. Former SPS ministers, from the DSS, the DS promised this. Here's a chance for you to be like Nisli here someone who allows you to help your hometown and to solve this problem that exists. I will tell you that there is one intention to electrify the railway from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. Dear Mr. Krstic, if the railroad is electrified, we Nisglie know there's no way that train knot could be removed and the railroad would be moved. We will believe, no matter whether we are MPs of opposition or ruling parties, we will defend our interest not to be introduced even more electricity on that track, where the railroad cuts into 20 places the city of Nis. Even more to introduce electricity, so it's just going to be a waste of the lives of our citizens of Nis. You have not accepted this amendment, but you understand that it is the highest priority of the city of Nis. So, the priority over this isn't that something that's very dangerous for the city of Nis, for the citizens of Nis, we move. That amount of money is 20m euros, that budget has been made, please as a native to Nisli to have a little more hearing for this city, because previous ministers, including previous governments, did not have much hearing for southeastern Serbia, especially Nis. I'm just going to say, and that's what I'm going to end up with - this year you took 850 million dinars from Nis' budget of Nis, and next year the transfers to Nisu will be smaller than the city of Leskovac, so I think you need to get involved as Nisli to help southeastern Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30002	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30003	Mr. Milisavlevich, you don't have to repeat to me 20 times to cut that railroad in 20 places. I grew up on that railroad. My grandfather was a railroadman, from Palilula to the train station I went so I liked him very much. I am now the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and cannot help Nis, because I am Nislija. If you ask me for advice, whether Nisu needs a maximum of 20m euros to remove the railway knot, I don't think so. Everyone has the right to submit an amendment. Otherwise, I'd use that money if there was. Unfortunately, since we are in the situation in which we are, we have very limited opportunities in terms of total borrowing and, in that sense, the Ministry of Traffic, together with all other ministries that are large credit resources users, has decided what are the priorities. Since I've traveled a lot with this railroad, because I'm from there, I think it would be a big deal if in the next three years as planned by the three-year strategy, I don't know exactly how long this project is going to take, the responsibility of the Ministry of Traffic, we'll do that electricity line from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. Depending on how we implement these measures, I hope we can move that railroad I've been listening to all of my childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30004	The word has the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30005	Dear Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Krstic, your priorities. What's more important for the city of Nis? I think they have the highest right to say Nish citizens and councilmen in the Nish City Assembly. The Niš City Assembly's committees in 2010 were unanimous, I repeat unanimously, this has never happened in the history of parliament in Nis, they said – this is our priority. They said another thing unanimously – we do not allow you to introduce electricity into this railroad that cuts into 20 places the city of Nis. I repeat, would anyone in Belgrade or Novi Sad, allow the railway to burden him with chemical traffic, with cattle, with anything passing through King Alexander, past the Arena, past the SIV, passing by the Republic government. He's cutting the city into 20 places for us. When the ramp goes down, the traffic collapse, when the ramp goes down, there's a possibility that some incident happens like there was a car accident. The decision of the National Assembly of Nis does not allow electricity. I realize maybe now, you don't have the money, but don't put us in a position to get electricity into this railroad. It's definitely concreteing that railroad and definitely mutilating the city of Nis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30006	Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30007	I'll talk to the Minister of Traffic, see if there's any way to prioritize it. However, it is in the extreme line, in the context of the whole project, with the understanding that if this project is being done, it should be done because my proposal was to work with Bulgaria to set things right on the other hand. At this point, however, we must operate with understanding within the scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30008	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a former user of rail services, I would vote for this amendment, but if we move the railroad to one city, then we should do so in Belgrade. The railroad goes from Batajnica to the main train station. I worked in IMT for almost six years. From the second shift, it was our only transport, and then it was a pleasure to travel on that train because it was full of workers, even from the second shift. What do I mean by that? The means of moving the railway are required and are not required for overpasses or for solving some traffic problems but are required to move the entire railway. We had a situation where chandeliers were factory workers, and then the railroad ran out of passengers. It is likely that 400,000 workers who lost their jobs would use rail transport, which is one of the main transports, since it is the cheapest. One more thing, if these workers hadn't been changled from the factory in a very harsh way and the factories hadn't been kidnapped, they'd certainly have made some social product, and I'm a witness to those trains being traveled by the workers of the Dragon, Minela, IMT and IMR who worked from India, Nova Paz, Stara Paz. So 1,000 workers were using railways, or railways, from the first and second shifts. Also, freight trains were driven by tractors, combiners, pickers, trailers, etc., machinery and parts of cancer tractors. So they were transporting the goods that these workers were carrying, and with my participation, they were producing. Unfortunately, these factories have been robbed and sold and turned into construction zones and workers have been changled and evicted from these factories and we do not have enough users for a railway line to use for the transport of passengers, and we do not have the goods that these workers, or passengers, would do. That's what I'm afraid of, anything to make the most ideal infrastructure, what are we gonna do with that railroad besides other people's goods? So we have neither a worker nor a production, and that's why I'm in favour of making some production, exporting for debt recovery and a source that can maintain our infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30010	According to Businessman Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30011	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure regarding the dignity of the National Assembly. I think some terms are easily used in this National Assembly. Last time we had a wide discussion about a very inappropriate use of one term. Today it's said that the workers are lustrated. It should explain the meaning of the term – lustration. This represents determining responsibility for human rights violations by a public office person. I know that there are people who would lute workers because their workers are guilty because they violated their rights to be chased by the poles of power last time they destroyed their factories, but don't use those terms so easily. However, this is about Parliament and some terms that can't be used and excused so that someone can be fun. When someone here says that workers are lustrated, they obviously think that workers have violated someone's rights. We in the DS don't think that workers in this country have violated anyone's rights. On the contrary, we believe and share the opinion of the majority that workers have rights and that they are holders of the basic human rights arising from the Constitution. But when it's said that workers are lustrated, I take it as a message that workers should be expelled from work because they didn't vote for the faction that the speaker belongs to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30012	Mr. Milivojevic, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and I don't think Mr. Risticevic wanted to offend the workers in any way. I think that in this assembly we often use expressions and even have requirements for free dialogue and free use of dictionaries. I think it's very difficult to build a line here. Personally, I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. You can ask to vote in voting day. (No) The word is Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30013	Thank you, Vice President. Let's get back to the amendment. I think when we're talking here, we need to know what we're saying. First, Belgrade is divided by a railroad. One who does not know can walk to New Belgrade and will see that both New Belgrade and Zemun, in the middle of the railway behind Delta City, near Arena. That's not true and not only that, but we have a whole section heading towards Dorcolo where oil goes and everything lives towards Panchev. That's not even true. To remind me of something else, which is that three years ago Minister Djelic signed a protocol with Nis and that you did not put it in the budget. But it's not 20 million, it's 54 million, and it's not protocol that envisions moving the railroad, it's just making a bypass for freight traffic. It's not the same thing. You are taking action to remove the railway and ban the railway and complete the reconstruction of the Dimitrovgrad-Nish track. This is a crucial program. I don't mean just you and not personally here, and that's completely wrong. We have a big problem in the state of Serbia that Kamenica can ban the creation of the Corridor 10 project and then we also report on capital facilities, something that is not only a question of Serbia, but also goods from Europe for Istanbul or from the port of Istanbul towards Europe, we cannot finish some projects. We're talking a mile and a half. Instead of talking about the freight traffic bypass when the state can, it is already 3.5m euros provided from the European funds for the project that this bypass is done and on the other hand that we gradually see how many underpasses and overpassers can be done in this and the next budget, I repeat, we are talking about how we're going to move the track. Nis moved the tram track 30 years ago and he'll never have it again. A city that doesn't have trams or metros or city railways isn't a metropolis. He'll be a big city by population, but he's not a metropolis. Instead of talking about how we're going to electrify that railroad, how we're going to install and create underpasses, overpasses, and protect and how we're going to build a city rail between Niška Banja and Aleksinac, and how it's going to be one big metropolis in Serbia, just to move something out. Let's cancel everything. Where we ended, we never got back. I think it takes a lot more money than 20 million, but we are in no position in this budget or in the next until we complete the reconstruction of that railway from Dimitrovgrad to Nis and electrify so that we can ensure normal functioning and what we are obliged to all European standards, traffic on that route. So I just don't think it's possible to accept it right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30014	Mr. Milisavlevich, I personally believe you have no right to replication. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the city: Incorrect interpretation. ) I agree that he presented an explanation of the amendments from his point of view, which does not agree with your position, but does not mean that you have the right to reply. Don't complain right now, I'll give you my word, but I want you to understand. The theme is interesting and I know it and that's why I'm going to give you the right to a replica, but you're essentially not entitled to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30015	Thank you very much. Mr. Angelkovic, if you'd listened carefully, I wasn't talking about moving the railroad, I was talking about making a bypass for freight traffic. In 2010, the republican government signed an agreement with the City of Nis and with the "Serbian Railways" to create a 14km-long roundabout from Red Cross to Proseko. So no one's looking for anything else. I want to tell you that in 2011, a plot was made and the Nisa City budget allocated 2.5m euros for land expropriation of four kilometers. Ten kilometers takes an existing rail corridor route to Sofia. Initial funding of 9.5m euros for the development of an idea project, 1.5m euros has already been provided. The start of eightm-euro works was also secured from the IPA access funds. For the complete shift and electrification of the 14km railway, what we're talking about is a bypass, we need from the Czech loan, which we're looking for, 20m euros. I repeat, this really is Nishli's wish. The city parliament is, for the fifth time, unanimously... You have MPs here from the ruling parties, I think they'll confirm that further. It's not a wish for us to say that in some other cities we don't need it, but here's the real problem with this freight traffic because it cuts the city of Nis into more than 20 places. It is our wish, and in essence I am here representing the interests of the citizens of Nis and the Assembly of the City of Nis, who unanimously made that decision in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30016	After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Janko Veselinovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30017	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for article 27, and I suggest you stop today's session, and we continue tomorrow. This is one of the most important acts the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brings. I think that this is something that the citizens of Serbia should be familiar with, that this is very much their concern. This is about their means. Currently, Serbia's television is broadcasting a league of champions or leagues of Europe, I'm not quite sure. I think it would be good if the transfer of the Assembly didn't go delayed after midnight, because no one would be able to see it and no one would know what was being discussed here. I don't think this is funny at all. There's no transmission on Radio "S", Mr. Bucky. So, I think it would be good if the public were well informed, even through Radio "S". Maybe you could've stopped... (President: Don't throw it away, please.) )......................................................................................................... Obedience, that is, ratings. So, Chairman, I suggest we proceed with the meeting tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30018	I understand your proposal, Mr. Veselinovic, but since the president of the assembly is here, he will probably decide. I don't want to decide whether to interrupt the session or not. You're reporting from the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30019	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, and I report to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 255, and this is about the public work of the Assembly. Since the transfer of the Assembly has been suspended and since many parliamentary groups have taken advantage of the terrible times they have, I hope that tomorrow you will be able to work much easier and we will be able to pass many more amendments under this law. The law is important, one of the most important laws adopted this year and for these reasons, and I join Mr. Jank's suggestions that we interrupt the work of the Assembly at this time, and I see that the MPs of the opposition and the position agree, and that we continue tomorrow. General, I hope you accept this suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30020	My answer to you is the same as the previous speaker. We're going back to work. The replica has Mr. Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30021	Let me make a joke first. If the position had been, if the SNS had asked us to shut down the transmission, I would understand, if they were watching their president, but I don't understand why you're getting so upset. We're just in the mood to work now. (President: People's MPs, please don't conduct each other's dialogue. This was higher. I think we understand each other. Of course, “S” never conveys congregation meetings, nor does it. You can listen to music, have fun. But to get back to the subject matter, one thing is important here. I think in your current address, you've actually confirmed what I've been saying. You said earlier that you wouldn't allow any electricity to go through the city of Nis, and I'm telling you it's wrong. That's two different things. What Mr Djelic signed is not what you said at first, but what you said later. It is that the commitment of the state of Serbia and the Railways is to make these 14km bypasses for freight traffic, but do not prevent power lines from being electrocuted by the Czech loan through the centre of Nis, but rather looking for funds. We need to look together for funds for underpasses and overpasses, so Nis gets two things – both a bypass and a fact-finding city railway. I'm saying it's wrong, which you initially stood up for, and later you changed completely. When it comes to funds, I don't think it's possible in this budget. That's all I said, but I'm not saying it's not necessary. It is a 54 million project and it is, as you said, an IPA fund. This is what is being done and will be done absolutely safely within the limits of how much the common state and the Railways can do, together with the City, of course. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30022	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30023	Thank you. I'm reporting for the amendment. The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, is the issue of railways, embezzlements, or construction of a railway bypass in Nis, will not be resolved by this year's budget. It's one question that has existed for over two decades in our city, where once twenty years ago the first steps were made that unfortunately haven't been realized for two decades, and we've calendarly entered even in the third. But I think it's necessary to show good faith to begin with. Mr. Krstic, you're the highest government official here tonight. I ask you to convey this goodwill to the other members of the government and to the Prime Minister himself, by passing on these words and this request to me and the next request. The decision on the construction, i.e. the electification of the railway station on the route Nis – Niška Banja – Average – Stanječenje – Pirot continues to be nailed, so I would like to say so in a jargon-colloquial manner by means of a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think, in October 2009. I think that the regulation carries the number 59, which is a regulation that provides a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia for the special purpose of Corridor 10 of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the routes of infrastructure not only for railways, but also for road and optical traffic and for gasification. This regulation, in fact by amending that regulation, would create legal assumptions that more serious funds are being planned in the coming years, in order to open the issue, it would also be processed in one legal procedure. As I said, we know that the issue of construction of the bypass cannot be resolved safely in 2014, but for the start, this government can change that regulation on the design and adoption of the spatial plan of the special purpose of Corridor 10, in order to enable the construction of the freight roadway from the Red Cross station through Pantheli, the next route of the existing railway line to the level of Matejevac, and then by building a completely new section from the Lower Matejec to the Average, it is some relationship of about nine kilometers, created the possibility of getting that traffic out of the city center. We know, of course, as I said, there is no safe question of the construction of the bypass in 2014, but for the start of this government can change that Regulation on the construction and adoption of a spatial plan for the special purpose of Corridor 10 in order to enable the construction of the freight road from the Red Cross station via the Pantheli, following the course of the existing Začar railway to the level of Matejevec, and then by building a completely new section from the Lower Matejec to the Average. That's the relation of some, I think, about nine kilometers, created the possibility of getting that traffic out of the city center. I'm surprised that Mr. Angelkovic, I have to mention him, he may be replicating, to mention, it's incomparable to ask to build overpasses, underpasses and everything. You know, Mr. Angelkovic, what's the old city core like in Nis, that there are streets of that profile that are barely happening at this point in the road traffic, let alone now take overpasses. There's no room. It's just that someone found an urban solution from 1878 and over here. Don't talk about it now, it's incomparable to talk about New Belgrade, Delta City about directions towards the Shimanovs, or the West, etc. If we want to find a solution, let's ask that we all be part of the solution. If we're looking for trouble not to do something, the problems can always be easily and elegantly found. It is true that some of the funds were identified in 2010, but would not enter into that. This is what we need to do. This first step towards changing the spatial plan, so that the state can identify these, not for the country of over, twenty or fifty million dinars, through one three-year or five-year budgetary strategic planning. The existing route, according to the General Urban Plan of the city of Nis, is foreseen, adopted in 2010, on which agreement, among other things, was given, not among other things, but ultimately given by the Republic Government, or the relevant ministry then, is intended to build on the existing route so-called. "South boulevard" which would be one of the main arteries of road traffic throughout the city. It's a strategic long-term programme. I wouldn't go into that analysis. So, please, it's not about the financials right now, but I'm talking to you as the highest representative of the government this evening. Let's initiate an amendment to the Space Plan for the special purpose of Infrastructure Corridor 10, which contained this solution that I was talking about. It's the beginning of all beginnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30024	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30025	I am pleased that the president of the railway assembly is thinking and involved actively in solving this problem that has plagued all the citizens living in Nis for years. It's very good and commendable that he understands us and wants to help us. Allow Mr. Angelkovic to discuss what is our interest in Nis we decide. Don't take care of us from Belgrade and know what's better for us than ourselves. (Zoran Angelkovic, from the scene: Here is the question who gives the money. I beg your pardon, the money is government. The interest of the "Serb Railway" cannot be more than the interest of the citizens of Nis. He can't get past the railroad where the rail will be. I guess the citizens have the sovereignty in this country, not the public enterprise they created, that it imposes priorities. What's the problem with building a bypass around Nis and getting all the traffic through here? Why would you go through the city center? Tell me, in Belgrade, how many spring crossings are there throughout the city of Belgrade? Nowhere. It's been deniveled everywhere. Can it be done in Nis? Of course he can't. It can theoretically, fictitiously for 400m euros to dig seven meters in length of 12km. That's impossible, they'll never find that money. Forget that story about you constantly distracting us about how we're supposed to deal with the railroad. There's nothing to discuss with the railroad. The decision of the city's assembly, a councilman where citizens gave sovereignty to the board to decide on it, is that there is no traffic across the city center, because it divides the city into two parts. There's no crossing of the crossings in more than 20 places. We want to get out of town, and there's a point. We want the government to define itself by that and find the money and end the story more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30026	Replica, Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30027	It would be good, sir, if you didn't yell at me, my mother didn't yell at me, and my father didn't yell at me, because it's not good, it's not nice, it's not useful, and it's not necessary. Because what I was saying, I was talking more into Nis than you and more money, more money needed to do this than you're talking about. And what you don't give, you know what, isn't mine or yours. I didn't design that railroad through Nis, but some before me, some king, not me, some government, some congregation, some state. If you think you need to stop it, stop it, take out the railroad. What do I care? Well, it's not mine. I was just saying that this country doesn't have the money to move that entire railroad around, no. Is it useful for the Railway to go around. It's no problem. If there's money, I vote right now, here's six stripes. Or is there a cross-breeding in Belgrade or not? Well, then you don't know Belgrade, go to Dorcol for a while, see if there is or isn't. The whole part of town is divided by a ramp. There's no way. It's also in most parts of the city. Go to Europe and see where the train stations are. In the center of town. And of course, the state is trying to denivilize that railroad, put it under the ground, lift it above the ground, slice by piece, piece by piece, but it doesn't take from Malmo or Copenhagen a train station and carry it 10 kilometers outside the city. It's not an airport. Tell me a serious city in Europe that doesn't have a main train station downtown. Of course he's doing everything. Here's the last few years. We're not Germany, unfortunately. Stutgard has invested several billion to lower the rail that enters the capital and the main train station below the ground. That, of course, is what we should do gradually when we part ways. Therefore, I was saying that the project is what the plan is for now and what Djelic signed as the then minister is to provide funds for the bypass without stopping the electrification of Dimitrovgrad – Nis. If the state decides otherwise, what do I care?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30028	Milan Lapčević, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30029	Mr. Angelkovic, I didn't yell at you it's a simple style, as your colleague Mrkonjic says – I speak a little louder. So, of course, in all developed cities in Europe are railway stations in the city centre. But, of course, there's no city in the world that I'm not exaggerating, but in Europe there's no city where the railroad passes from one end of town to the other end of town, divides it into two parts by 20 spring crossings. It doesn't exist anywhere without being denivelled. There are spring crossings in Belgrade, but they are down towards the Danube, according to Sava, not dividing the city into two parts. Through New Belgrade, everything is deniveled from Topcider to the main railway station, everything is deniveled. There may be some transition, but it's not such a drastic situation. The third thing, the electrification of the line from Dimitrovgrad to Nis, of course, all the way to Nis himself can be done without any problem. But if Serbia doesn't have 30, 50m euros to build a 14km track, let's shut down now. Well, we'll only give a billion euros for interest this year, and we don't have 50m euros to set aside five years to make 12km of track. Then we're a non-serious state, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30030	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30031	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's not just Nis and Belgrade. We cannot resolve the issue of the railway without a comprehensive solution that will truly be part of a coherent policy. Let's go over the Danube a little bit and get into Vojvodina and ask ourselves what about the railway from Novi Sad that connects Kovacica with Belgrade and see if that's the policy of a political party that's coherent on one side. He says, seven percent give us because we love the Vojvodina, and now the amendment goes, you know what, I'm not interested in the Vojvodina, but give us the Nis bypass because Nis is the priority of all priorities. Let's figure out what our priorities are. Don't suggest an incompetence policy that when we collect all the amendments below the line, it gives as much money as we don't have in two state budgets. Then let's not just talk about Belgrade and Nis. Let's talk about that from Kovacica 500 mostly women travel by bus to Belgrade because the railway connecting Novi Sad, Kovacica and Belgrade simply doesn't work and drives 20 kilometers an hour. This solution must be found by proposing a coherent and long-term policy. I am glad that there are representatives of Vojvodina and I hope they agree with me that the problem is not only Belgrade and Nis, but also a little wider there are problems and that is why the amendment cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30032	I ask MPs not to expand the subject. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say that it's really a legitimate attempt to make an amendment from a local environment or try to provide funds, but I also have to point out a few negative examples that exist today. So this is an attempt to solve a problem that has been dating for many years. If the state had a more favourable economic situation, it might indeed be possible to allocate a certain amount of money to build a bypass or any infrastructure project that plagues a local environment. It's a much worse situation now when in this economic crisis, which is the result of what happened before who knows how many years ago, we're not going to elaborate now, it's a much worse situation that today can happen and arise today, at this point. Today, the situation is being created, I would ask my DSS colleague to listen to me, that a city in Serbia, called Piroth, is infrastructureally, according to the 2009 spatial plan of special purpose, which was made with the consent of then-President Boris Tadic and then Minister Oliver Dulic, Pirot is now divided into two parts, without any scruples, by building a highway that basically divides the city from the City Hospital. Unfortunately, the authority in which the president of a self-willed municipality, which does not allow any harm to the Rules of Procedure, is absolute, and unfortunately the Democratic Party is in power, was absolutely deaf about the attempts to appeal to the negativity of such a solution, and today there is a problem that we may have to solve as a state, as a government, in the coming period, which is a much more difficult form of a problem than this problem that has arisen who knows how many years earlier. If it were a more favourable economic situation, surely I would personally vote in favour of this amendment as a member of the Socialist Movement. But at this point, there is really no possibility of finding resources in the budget that could be dedicated to solving such infrastructure problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30034	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30035	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just for the sake of the viewers, whenever this transmission went, in my previous speech, I expressed regret for the trains full of workers, for the rails that were full of workers, for the trains that carried what the workers produced. I worked at IMT. We produced 45,000 tractors. Only to the port of Bar went to Algeria a year for 10,000 tractors. There were 30,000 pieces for the internal market and another 5,000 pieces for exports to other markets. That's all the railroads were making more than 40,000 marks, only on the transport of goods from one factory. That's the regret I was talking about. I was talking about an industrial ring in Belgrade that had over 250,000 employees in production, between 250 and 300,000, and today it's only 20,000. I was talking about how we need to invest money again in production, not just talk about how we're going to get something out of the budget, but how we're going to put something into the budget through production. Since I've worked at IMT for six years, since I've met people on the first and second shifts on those trains every day, I can describe that happiness these people had when they carry their wages to their homes and when they can proudly go out in front of their children. That's what I was talking about and I said that they're kind of lustrated and here, I admit the mistake. Instead of firing them, politicians who have kidnapped the state and factories and jobs and dignity should be lustrated. So I agree that I was wrong to say that they were lustrated, they were fired cruelly from those we were supposed to lustrate from politics and public life. I dream of refueling those trains so we can speed up our tracks. I understand Mr. Shain, Kovacica, through Sekerana, exports two to three thousand euros of sugar per citizen. I welcome the fact that Kovačica can raise the social product, produce certain goods and participate in budgeting. But I don't understand the effort to take something from the budget alone, to attribute his mistake to another opponent, I don't understand that someone fired 400,000 workers and then said that this government did it. I dream of trains being full of goods and passengers again, of raising production in Serbia, and no one here can forbid me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30036	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Marko Milutinovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Marko Milutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30037	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovicu, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have submitted this amendment because we believe that... (President: I ask the People's MPs to allow the MP to speak. Here you go. ) We have submitted this amendment because we believe that issuing guarantees at this proposed amount of 200m euros for the stand-by line for the Deposit Insurance Agency is not at this moment the most acceptable. Of course, it is clear to us that these funds to the Deposit Insurance Agency have been spent over the previous years on various interventions, in the resolutions of bad banks, primarily through the payment of these secured and unsecured deposits. However, we really think that such a practice must be interrupted and certain responsibilities of the banking sector must be introduced. Since foreign banks, but also since the management structure in the banks in which the majority share has been state-owned, the last 13 years have been citizens and how they felt, above all, in their own skin everything that is bad from that banking sector, and through the interest rates they have on their loans. Excellent examples of where the state finally had to answer are examples of Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank, where due to lack of adequate state security funds it had to react via the Deposit Insurance Agency. It is really necessary to address this problem in the banking sector by strengthening bank responsibility and we think that this budget and these system laws should have been followed by certain system laws in the area of the banking sector itself. Of course, we are aware that in 2014 it is also possible to have new crises in this sector, some banks, we assume, and that is why we are not suggesting that these funds be abolished completely, but that they be reduced to 100 million. We think the rest might be better spent on agriculture to prevent the penetration of genetically modified food. Why, as an MP group, we have a certain mistrust with the government and the ministry, although I personally think of Minister Krstic, I think he's doing a lot of work in his portfolio. However, ministers, these necessary austerity measures that you think are necessary, do not affect the cost of this budget, primarily the ministries, are reduced, but they are increasing and we continue to give public enterprises huge amounts of money, primarily "Srbigas" and many others, in which we all know what is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30038	Anyone else want a word? He has the word Mr. Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30039	Just for banks, I'll answer the amendment directly, to explain these stand-by lines from the World Bank, from IDBER, I'm not sure which exact amendment you're submitting to, but both of them mean that we're going to introduce control into the banking sector, so they're completely in line with your suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30040	Did you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30041	It's nice to meet you, Minister, if that's what you're thinking. Unfortunately, we are convinced that very quickly there will be budget rebalancing, in line with some of the reasons for the previous mandates, there is a very quick opportunity to introduce a certain order, above all a legislative initiative. What is a fact is that in 2012, including now and in 2014 according to this proposal, the state in this banking sector, or its intervention, will be around 800m euros. It's a really big waste of the state during that period. With that in mind, it is an additional argument in terms of what I said, you confirmed, that the more control and banks in this sector should be introduced, so that not all that happened in the previous period. I mentioned the example “Agrobanks”, “Vojvodina Development Bank”. There was a major impact on politics, political parties. We all know what happened. In the end, the state had to answer from its means to solve everything that had arisen from this crisis. We simply have to react systematically. If that's your commitment, I thank you for that, and we hope that as soon as possible, order will be put in place in the banking sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30042	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30043	Dear President, Minister, it is our proposal that in Article 3, in the part where guarantees are to be discussed that Serbia should give for new borrowings this year, the part relating to the granting of 200m euros in guarantees for "Srbigas", the maintenance of the current liquidity, be deleted. We also talked at that meeting when you explained the budget and we don't think that's right. You explained that the reasons for Serbia's problems in the heating season are because gas deliveries can be interrupted and 200m euros must be guaranteed to "Serbigas" in order to pay those obligations to gas suppliers. Given that we have very bad experience in previous years, that "Serbia" has been in debt over the last five years, that it will probably spill over on the back of all Serbian citizens and that it will become a public debt instead of restructured "Srbigas" to reduce its costs, especially the expenditure on salaries and the irrational consumption that we have talked about many times so far, we will give another year's additional responsibility to "Srbigas", which we consider to be extremely irrational and unnecessary. We suggest that you transfer the problem of gas payment to the state, some state, if necessary, guarantee that gas is paid, not that you transfer and that you provide guarantees for new "Serbiagas" duties, because this company will definitely sink. A billion euros in the Serbian loan will never be returned. This will be on the back of citizens, and I don't think it's absolutely right for all Serbian citizens to pay for someone's public service, unnecessary employment, tens of thousands of euros. You didn't hit on that, you were already on to other measures to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think there are many more ways to fill the gaps in the budget, and only those holes and those dubious ones in the "Serbigas" will deepen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30044	The People's MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30045	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, my colleague Gorica Gajic and I have tabled an amendment to Section A of Article 3, where we asked for point 3 to be deleted. So, when the previous rebalance was adopted, one of the reform achievements, as they pointed out, is that there will be no longer any guarantee of a state related to the liquidity of certain enterprises. As a party, we welcomed it, commended it. But things are different. When we opened a new draft budget, we saw that Article 3 once again holds a guarantee for the 100m-euro EPS liquidity. So, we're against it, and we told you that when we talked to you, because we think you've given too much guarantee to "Serbiagas" and "Smederevo Irons", and here's the EPS. According to this analogy, you should have given all those companies that are not liquid, and there are many in Serbia. We heard here “14. October’. So that's how you discriminated against them, and gave the possibility to certain companies and systems that they could share salaries, because here in this draft budget we don't see an EPS business analysis, or a restructuring analysis, or an analysis of the use of money by management, and we ask – where will these funds go? A discussion has been held here about the Nis bypass, and these 100m-euro funds that the state has provided as a guarantee for this public enterprise could go there. So, Mr. Minister, we expect you to learn from the best in the future. You know that the finance minister was in time Laza Pacu and that he told his sovereign in time that he would not give funds for certain projects. That's why we expect you to slap a hundred hand and tell the political establishment clearly – there's no more funds for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30046	National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30047	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted the amendment to Article 3 and envisioned the return of the Central European Bank loan guarantee, the Bank of the Council of Europe for a working village in the Kingdom, on Dosite Street, which suffered from the 2010 earthquake. I don't see why Minister Velimir Ilic refuses to accept this guarantee that was in the previous two budgets. A guarantee for projects that have worked together by all parties, which have continued in parliament here, in the Royal SNS along with the SPS, before that, with the SPS and the URS. I see no reason not to accept this guarantee, especially since in the last year property-legal relations have been taxed, complete expropriation has been done, land purchase, documentation has been prepared, a survey has been done to obtain the CEB loan, the CEB approved. All the shops were completed, money was provided in the city's budget for the construction of the project itself, which is about a million euros and, in the end, Velimir Ilicicic comes before Mayor Dragan Jovanovic, in front of the media, and he says -- there's none of that. It's just amazing how an awkward situation a man has found himself in. This is written in your explanation – funds will be provided from other sources. Minister, there are no funds for this project, no funds for workers in this budget, from Dossyt Street, 1,300 residents. Please think again. I think this is a good project, a good investment. It improves the position of people who are terribly difficult to live on. One toilet upstairs, Mr. Minister. Walls that have half a metre holes. That's where people sleep, kids sleep. Don't let people live in the 21st century because of someone's vanity or because they want to find another source of income, so that they can fill their own interests, and that's what Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic was talking about, and then it was guessed who it was. Please think again. This is a very important thing. It's an important thing for the construction industry in that city, which has completely fallen, because the economy is in a very bad situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30048	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30049	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I just advertised the Rules of Procedure, but they were away. It's a public job. Article 255. Since television transmission has been interrupted, and this topic is extremely interesting for the citizens of Serbia, because this is the most important law to be passed this year and given that many parliamentary groups have spent a huge amount of time, I hope you will adopt this request and request from all MPs, probably, who are here, to continue the session tomorrow. I think it'll be a lot easier for you, too, that the amendments will go a lot faster, because the parliamentary groups have spent, as I said, a terrible time. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30050	Thank you for your suggestion. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30051	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, as a Royal, first of all, knowing the situation in this urban regeneration of the city of Kraljev, in the problem of a part of the population that we haven't solved after the earthquake that hit the City of Kraljevo, I think you should see this amendment again, and in any case adopt it, especially if I am convinced that you didn't have the relevant, or competent ministry, real data when drawing up the 2014 budget. The city of Kraljevo planned to produce a project documentation of 60 million dinars as part of its budget for 2014. If we know that the whole project is eight million dinars, that's where we solve the problem of 17,000 squares of living space, we'll primarily hire a construction operation, we'll create some new value. It's not just that we're looking for a loan to get something done, we're looking for a loan to do something, and we're looking for a construction effect that de facto exists in King's City. I think you should take another look, and I'm convinced that you didn't have the right data when you were putting together the 2014 budget, and as far as urban regeneration is concerned, on Dosite Street, in the City of Kralje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30052	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Mr Bozidar Djelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladjan Dinkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bojan Bozanic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30053	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Government of Vojvodina, fellow Members and fellow MPs, in Article 3, is talking about loans and we have proposed that the National Assembly may have and fulfil its control role, to receive a report on the implemented projects for which guarantees have been issued, granted loans or loans, etc., something similar we have already heard today. We know how many detachments were during the previous interest period on loans. One of the government's measures, to remind us, is to take cheaper loans, i.e. to pay off expensive loans with cheaper interest from 2% to 3%, which we certainly as DSS support as one of the government's measures and we think it should be done, because a total of 150 million euros will be saved on one billion loans. What the minister was saying earlier, and it has something to do with this, is that the government itself is changing the concept, and the minister is also pushing for a different way of funding projects through a model of public-private partnership and concessions, so I'm interested in whether something was done on the subject? Have you already launched any infrastructure projects that are funded by these models? How much are we currently using these models to finance infrastructure projects and do you think existing laws meet the needs of realisation in this way? I think investment in investment is the only thing that can repay our funds and only borrowing in this way, that is, for the purpose of investing that will generate new money and production or jobs, etc. It can make sense. There's nothing else he can do. When we adopt guarantee laws, about loans, we later have no information about what's going on with that project, how far it's gone, etc. Well, among other things, this amendment is ours, so I ask you to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30054	The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev iGorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted this amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30055	Thank you. I'd like to thank the Minister and the Government for accepting the amendment. Namely, he says: "The national IPA coordinator will submit reports on the results of projects financed from EU funds to the National Assembly once a year," which is really good, because we need to know how these EU funds are spent. In the previous period, we do not know how many of the figures we are talking about, which we have received through grants, either in some other way from the EU. We also believe that Serbia must take advantage of all possibilities, take all possible grants in order to realise the project, and above all modernisation and improvement of its administration and reach certainly the most modern standards of the most developed countries in the world, with further efforts to invest in all those branches of the economy that can generate funds, so I think this will be great. I would like to thank you on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group on the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30056	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30057	In Article 5, I suggested changing the landing of items: to build border crossings in the Republic of Serbia, specifically the Kotroman border crossing, increased by 80 million dinars, because, as you may have had the opportunity to see in the previous budget, quite enough funds were planned to build this border crossing between Bosnia and Serbia. Work was to be started, but these works did not begin. I suggested that 80 million dinars be taken from the part of the Modernisation of the Tax Administration Information System and placed on this item, but that's not in my head, not by any means, nor by any means, nor by any means by any chance to interrupt that I quote new system software licenses and the accompanying communication equipment that will improve our tax system. As I saw from the analysis, over the previous year there was a billion and 175 million and a little bit more planned for these purposes, and it seems to me to be spent a billion, so I thought, since this year a billion and 185 are planned, it's going to be spent about a billion this year and there's room for us to transfer 80 million to build the Kotroman border crossing, because believe me, there's a big problem. There are, in fact, the most criminal activities in every country's border areas, and the minister himself says that we are most fighting smuggling and austerity measures. And we as DSS are helping you and telling you what austerity measures could be achieved – the problems of the state in the gray economy, in the smuggling of tobacco and fuel in the border area. If we eliminate it, the minister says we will save about 150m euros. Here's a way to save. If we improve this border crossing for the purpose of saving, for reasons of increasing customs revenues that fall rapidly in the previous period, preserving the country's security, we can create optimal conditions for these customs and police officers, for example, to carry out their duties in Kotroman and to protect their country both in terms of savings and in terms of security. I really ask you to reconsider the possibility of this redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30058	The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I agree with the amendment by my colleague Bozanic, especially in this section, which envisions a reduction of funds for the modernisation of the tax administration's information system, which has been planned here for nearly a billion and 200 million. The question arises whether this year's savings should be allocated to the IRS, before the whole story of modernising the IRS has, unfortunately, brought no serious results. The year 2013 was declared a year of zero tolerance for tax evasion, and it turns out that the dramatic fall in tax revenue was recorded precisely that year. What the Fiscal Council noted is that they are terribly optimistic expectations that the increase in tax collection in 2014 will decrease the grey economy. On the contrary, whenever you increase taxes, you can expect a good part of it to go into the black zone. What is very important, the Fiscal Council notes, I would say with the right, that this modernization of the Tax Administration, which implies that next year we will only have the possibility by a united electronic payment exclusively by applying taxes, that this is a very risky move that has not been defined by a much more orderly tax administration, such as, for example, the US administration and England. I think it's just going into an adventure that doesn't guarantee a happy outcome, an increase in charge, and huge funds are also in this year, and as we can see in the 2014 budget planned for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30060	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Verica Kalanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Ilic and Rajko Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jokovic and Nenad Kitanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Kitanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30061	Dear President, honourable ministers, members of the Vojvodina Assembly, I am sorry that this amendment has been rejected because it is one area that has not been developed, and this government has since the moment of formation advocated, where I was, of course, precisely regional development and this local self-government. Construction of this traffic station from Paracino to Zaječar would be extremely important for the region, since we know that the eastern part of Serbia has been defined as fruit growing in the last year, two days. It confirms the fact that in the last two years, nearly 2,000 hectares of fruit have been planted. Will the investor come to the middle where he can't walk? I'm sure he won't. I think we should consider this road route towards Paracino, central Serbia, because it would be of great importance and certainly contribute to better communication with Bulgaria, which is also of great importance. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30062	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30063	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I don't know what to say in two minutes about Lake Vlassin, since the amendment I made, is actually projected to build a sewage network around Lake Vlassin in 2014 300 million dinars in 2015. 500 and in 2016 700 million dinars. What does it matter? I suppose anyone who was on Lake Vlasin should not be particularly explained, the first fact that it is in an undeveloped part of Serbia, in a part of Serbia that unfortunately does not have much potential for development, and the Vlassin Lake is, unfortunately, or fortunately, one of such potentials. In fact, the south of Serbia, from which I also come and the minister, covers 15% of Serbia's territory. It lives in about 13% of the population, but unfortunately the population is emptying out of this part of Serbia and very fast. Every year, a whole town moved out, and every day 37 people are less in this part of Serbia. Not to mention the 47% drop in employment, 44% unemployment, the average profit which, while in Serbia there are 41 000, is 27 thousand in southern Serbia, etc. I won't have time to talk about all the serious indicators of the collapse of southern Serbia, which unfortunately fell even when the rest of Serbia was much better. Why am I saying all this? Because Lake Vlassin is a developmental opportunity. No, only southern Serbia, but in general tourism and Serbia in general. Because, I can tell you, it's really a pearl of unbroken nature, healthy food, at a height of 1200 meters. It is a lake of unique beauty and, indeed, for which I have remembered, since I was a child, and that was quite a long time ago, there have been some plans for the development of this part of Serbia and for the development of Lake Vlasin, and it has never been their turn to be realized. I understand, Minister, that you will say that this is certainly not the time and that many MPs may agree with you. But believe me, for southern Serbia is never the time, for Lake Vlassin is never the time. Yes, now is the time to start, at least with some small resources and at least to solve some basic infrastructure problems so that ever Lake Vlassin could take advantage of his chance and really develop tourism in this part of Serbia. Please, if you've ever been to Lake Vlassin to help really one day and it happens for, not to tell our life, but in some recent period and to now start with those investments, no matter how difficult the year is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30064	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30065	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the province's representatives, the United Regions of Serbia, have submitted an amendment asking for the allocation of funds to build a fast road between Valjev and Corridor 11. The fact is that Serbia has poor traffic infrastructure, that it is one of the few European countries that has none completely completed the highway and where we have parts of Serbia where there are no kilometers of modern traffic. If we want to attract serious investment and investors, hire people and if we want a better quality of life for citizens, then we have to invest in traffic infrastructure planfully. What is the importance of good traffic infrastructure is also the fact that of all the investments that have come to Serbia for the past five years, more than 80% are located with Corridor 10. That is why the priority must be the even development of traffic infrastructure, so that all regions in Serbia have an equal chance of development. Construction of this traffic facility would mean a lot to Valjevo and the entire Kolubar region, as about 90,000 people live in Valjevo, of which 10,000 are unemployed, and the unemployed under 30 are participating with almost 29%. I'm sorry he's not here, Mr. Radulovic, and you're not listening to any of our arguments, because he's just saying one thing and the other is working. It stands for a good business environment, and we can see it's not here, because the prerequisite for a good business environment is good traffic infrastructure. Through this budget he's funding the failed giants somewhere. You've put in a ramp for serious foreign investors that you've declared to be a capital fool, and I don't see how you'll attract them if you haven't allocated funds in the budget for the development of traffic infrastructure throughout Serbia yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30066	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30067	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I would have once again to advertise the violation of members of the 27th and other members of the Rules of Procedure concerning the public in the work. Since we are discussing today the highest act this parliament will vote on, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it is inappropriate for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be unable to see and participate in the debate, even if they are watching MPs struggle for their interests, while the RTS is being hosted by the president of your party and the first Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. I know there are people who are interested in what Aleksandar Vukic will say, but I still think that the Serbian Parliament should have a priority, even when it comes to the first vice-president of the government. I think it could have been time for either this session of the assembly to be transferred, or it could have been interrupted, until it was feasted on the first, second, third and other pink channels, and then the Serbian citizens saw how we participated in the debate and how we represent their interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30068	As far as I'm aware, Mr. Wolf is visiting on the first channel of RTS. As far as I'm concerned, I don't do research, we'll see how interested the citizens have been, since it's still the most important thing that citizens think is to transfer the programme and transfer the National Assembly. I think it will say something to the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. As far as the public is concerned, she's secure. You know that the National Assembly can be watched live on the Internet, via the congregation channel, and through the National Assembly site at any time. At the same time, it will be delayed on the second channel of RTS. and all Serbian citizens will be able to monitor the session at that time. This is important, but since we have a very large number of amendments and legal deadlines to adopt this, I think it is also the will of the largest number of MPs to continue to work. (People's MPs are getting: How much are we going to do about it?) I don't have the right answer right now to tell you. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30069	If you please, then again a member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, which brings the public into the works. Do you really think someone in the Dučlovici has the Internet and now they're going to watch the Assembly session over the Internet? Well, they don't even have a television signal there, even if it's under the repeater. As in Osecina. They don't have the Internet either, believe me, at home, and they can't really see. They have some, but what do you think, let's say my uncle, who is 72 years old, is now going to sit on the Internet and look for a congregation channel. Well, they won't, believe me. No one's going to do it in Serbia. In other words, look at how many citizens are watching the session via the Internet. Let's not do that. I think it would be very important to interrupt the session. I understand the reasons for the urgency to bring in the budget and that we are working, but understand the opposition's request that we have a secure public in our work. That's it. Without stating whether there was any injury or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30070	Thank you very much. Mr. Radenkovic, by amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30071	I'm not by amendment, if you'll excuse me. I'll take the Rules of Procedure. I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't get it. Here's my second term, and I don't know what the reasons for this, completely inexplicable, are the other ones who point out right now. This isn't the first time, and it won't be the last, and I don't know what it is now that you won't do it at all. I don't understand. If you don't feel like it, go home. Let those of us who want to work, don't disturb us. It's just not the first time this has happened. You know, in the last term that we stayed up to 12 and worked late and days and weekends and it was – let's get this law and this law done as soon as possible. So don't make drama without any need now. I'm asking you to keep doing what we've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30072	Of course, I will now only once again use the right to warn all MPs that I will express disciplinary measures to all MPs who will attempt to abuse the infringement of the Rules of Procedure to obstruct the work, so I ask you to pay attention to what is done. That goes for everyone, both the government and the opposition. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30073	The Honorable Chairman, you injured the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn the previous speaker because he violated the dignity of the National Assembly, because he first did not say the member to whom he called, on the other hand he was making a replica, on the third hand it is not true what he said. Never, I am a five-year MP, never was the budget of the Republic of Serbia brought without television coverage. Never in the last five years that I've been a National MP, and it hasn't occurred to anyone, President. I believe that you are in charge, if you wish this House to preserve its dignity, to suspend this session and continue tomorrow. So, the parliament never sat down when the budget was passed without television transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30074	I won't do it now. It'll be a television broadcast. He'll be delayed. So, television transmission at no time is at issue. It's important to me that the citizens know that. Whether or not there's been an earlier delay in television broadcasts, yes. I wouldn't compare the importance of the session. There have been many important sessions. Every session of the National Assembly is very important to me, because we are passing laws that affect the lives of citizens. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30075	Here, I will call on Article 27, but I can call on many other members because you, Mr. President, as well as a colleague who spoke, hurt the Rules of Procedure and injured the dignity of the Assembly. You know what, I've been a long MP and I don't mind working at all. I don't want to, I don't let any of my colleagues tell me he hates me to work. It's true, we worked here night and night in various stimuli, and it's true that the budget was made at night. Some called it vampire sessions. I'm not personally. I don't mind working at night, especially when it comes to the budget. But the basic right of Serbian citizens is to be informed in direct transmission and that when we are ready to work, then citizens can also see what we are doing. That's one thing. The second is, I think it's correct on your part to say indicatively how many hours will work. I think that would be very collegiate and fair on your part. As for us and our willingness to work, so look at how many MPs there are, so you will see that there are approximately MPs of the position and MPs of the opposition... There are those who counted. And don't tell us we're not ready to work. Do not allow such outbursts I ask you and do not transfer us that we want to obstruct the work because we point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's really below level.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30076	I'm just asking you not to change the thesis. I didn't charge anyone for nothing. I only warned, since there was an example, I have long enough as the President of Parliament, that there were examples that MPs were trying through the Infringements Institute of the Rules of Procedure to abuse this right and to try to obstruct the work. And it is legitimate, such as the legitimate right of Parliament's president to take all the measures that the Rules of Procedure gives him. We'll keep working. Since I see that the MPs are in the mood, I expect there to be a lot of energy, and it would be a shame to waste that energy, and it's important to invest it in further work. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30077	Despite the fact that this is already the 12th hour of our work, I agree with you, Mr. President, that there is enough energy, especially with us in the U.S.R., but on the one hand there is no correctness, and I'm sure that all those who are not correct will recognize this inaccessibleness in themselves. I'm sure from the amendment of my predecessors, a co-worker from the URS has made it clear to the members of the URS that it invests more in traffic infrastructure, mostly in those border areas that are largely devastated. counterpart Plassic spoke of the collapse and complete devasting of southern and eastern Serbia. As I come from western Serbia, I cannot boast that the situation in western Serbia is somewhat better, and in today's earlier exposure, we had one controversy as to whether the highway is needed, more specifically Corridor 11. Of course, I also acted as an amendment in Article 5 for the 19th division of the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, proposing that funds be approved for the construction of a fast traffic station in Ruma-Loznica, especially as the funds are approved and foreseen for the construction of the Novi Sad-Ruma. This route, I will not repeat what my colleagues have been saying, certainly it is necessary to bring investors closer, and unfortunately in western Serbia a very small number of investors have come in years ago. One of the basic reasons is the lack of good traffic infrastructure. This route has a very high strategic importance for RS since it connects Vojvodina, western Serbia and Republika Srpska. All those involved in the strategy know what I'm talking about and I think this government needs to deal with this problem very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30078	The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30079	Thank you, Mr. President. President-in-Office of the AP Vojvodina Assembly with associates, respected ministers, I proposed this amendment that the capital investment of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism in 2014 and 2015 be built project documentation for the Corridor East. The funds to be provided would carry on the burden of the current budget reserve. Mr. Krstic, you said this budget was real. If you have designed the budget realistically and well and the use of funds from the current budget reserve should not be necessary before October of the month. I think this budget will suffer rebalancing in March and April. But if the budget is projected as it should be safe before September, you didn't need to use the funds of the current budget reserve in October, because by changing the 5% appraisal you can replace some position you would need. Making project documentation for Corridor East is very important. Do we want to go to the EU? I think the state there is absolutely clear that it wants Serbia to be an EU member. So does the government want to monitor what is happening and what are EU decisions? I think we should follow them because in August if the EU sets up a new network of corridors and if this country Serbia loses due to the transit that is now going to Corridor 4 which is of greater importance, it is more ranked in the EU than Corridor 11, unfortunately so, I think we can do project documentation for the Corridor East and join Corridor 10 with Corridor 4. Thus, all transit from the EU would not go through Romania and Bulgaria, but would go through Serbia via Bulgaria to the Black Sea. I really don't think that this is just about 13 municipalities in eastern Serbia, but that this country's interest is in general. In this context, I believe it is necessary to draw up project documentation and compete for 26 billion euros, as defined by the EU for the next six years to finance such projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30080	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: In its Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, the Republic's budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the Committee meeting. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ruzica Igic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30081	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, in Article 5, capital expenditure planned by the Ministry of Youth and Sports for the construction of the basketball hall, scheduled for 2016, amounting to 105 million dinars, is transferred to 2014 for the same non-members - construction of the basketball hall. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been planning funds to build a basketball hall for a long time, but these funds cannot be realised and the project cannot be realised. In addition to this basketball hall, athletes certainly need one closed hall, so that, first of all in the winter period, they do not go abroad to train there and achieve top results. Namely, the previous sports minister, at the time of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, Mrs. Snezana Markovic had the understanding for the "Partizana" basketball players who participated in fine-for 2009 and promised that the hall would start to be built in 2010 and will be built by 2012. To this day, this hall has neither begun to be built nor anything. Since Serbia now has two clubs competing in the Champions' League, we believe, Mr. Minister, that these funds are necessary and necessary for the construction of the basketball hall, for quality training. The hall is scheduled for training and is expected to have 400 seats, a gym and other logistics for top athletes. Our proposal for an amendment was, above all, that the funds identified by 2016 were allocated immediately in 2014 and started to be built in 2014. I think, given that the start of the construction season in March, that this hall could be built in one year, so that our basketball players, the Partizan basketball club and the Red Star basketball club would have optimal and quality conditions for the competition. So that was our purpose of the amendment. I'm sorry you didn't accept it, and I assume he's also sorry to the athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30082	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30083	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 5 provides for a review of the planned funds for the capital projects of budgetary users, and in section 32 of the Directorate for Joint Affairs of the Republic authorities is to allocate 1,299,616,000 dinars in 2014. We cut this item by amendment by 299,616,000 dinars and redeployed it for tourism infrastructure. Neither to Mr. Minister nor to all of you sitting in particular, we need to explain that tourism in Serbia is the leading business branch, so that it can be for a long time, only that these problems are not from tourist infrastructure, traffic infrastructure, municipal infrastructure. In addition to well-known centres, Zlatibor, Kopalnik, our Serbian spas, along with developed religious tourism, it is certain that there are more places in Serbia that can be the leading tourist centres. Among other things, I have to point out here, that is Resava, from which I come, as well as Despotovac and Svilian municipality. We are in the municipality of Svilajnac there are five monasterys near the Great Morava valley of the Great Morava, but because of the lack of adequate infrastructure they are not visited so much. Also, the municipality of Despotovac, the Resavska Cave, the monastery of Manasija and the Museum of Mining. Tourism as a branch draws upon the development of agriculture without talking about construction and all that. Therefore, we should not in any way reduce the funds we planned in 2013 from two billion and 600 million dinars to only 947 million dinars. We know what tourism means for Serbia and how much it could mean in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30084	The 6th Amendment was submitted to the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30085	Thank you. I'm Zoran Radoman, the regional finance secretary. This time I'm an authorised representative of the Duke's Assembly. The Vojvodina Assembly has given three amendments to this law. Essentially, it is an amendment to Article 6 which we are now talking about. The essence is to provide the volume of funds in the AP budget, as foreseen by the Constitution. I can say that last year I was in a position to explain this amendment, also to Article 6 of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013. This means that nothing has been done in a year to improve respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is the same as last year, and this time it is 32 billion dinars that come into the AP budget, or go through it as transfer funds for education units, or education institutions, local self-government units, but it is different from that now, in fact, as last year, we propose that they come into the AP budget instead of the capital of the collected excises on Vojvodina territory. The difference compared to last year is that 32 billion now represent 33% of the tax collection, while last year it was 43%. That says enough about how much AP participates from year to year in filling the Republic of Serbia's budget. By fulfilling these obligations imposed by the Constitution certainly to improve the standard of life of the people of Vojvodina, who are also citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30086	Thank you. Mr. Kasalovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30087	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Pastore, I would only once again like to support some of the views we spoke today on the first amendment, and with respect to the proposal that this amendment should try to make an effort within the framework of those 7% of the AP Vojvodina budget of the Republic of Serbia and some of the excise duties collected on the territory of the AP Vojvodina – 33%. It is also known to me that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has also adopted a platform or a basis for working on the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Appreciateing this proposal, it seems to me that he is on this background in the sense that the collection of part of the AP Vojvodina revenue is entrusted, which in a certain sense would mean that there is a tax administration at the level of the AP Vojvodina. And this time, I want to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to accept this amendment by accepting the argument that it is really a little bit controversial that excise duties that consumer taxes are difficult to locate for territory, or consumers. So it's actually the income of the central level of government and that in this kind of legal framework that we currently have, it's not possible in that sense to realize this idea. Also, I really think that this budget was made by the same principle and method and according to the Constitution and the laws that existed in the earlier period and that since 2003 practically transferred funds for education and local self-government, and above all for education, went to the AP Vojvodina budget and was treated as such, and afterwards to end users. Indeed, I see no reason why in 2013 when planning the 2014 budget suddenly accepts any other argument and argues that the funds for education, i.e. the transfer funds for local self-government, are not the revenue of the AP Vojvodina budget, i.e. for primary and secondary education other than high education, and that they should be directed directly towards end-users. If, since 2003, the AP Vojvodina and the government of Vojvodina have been interpreted as accepting such standards and criteria when making the AP Vojvodina budget, I think it is quite right that this time the Government of the Republic of Serbia planned 7% for the AP Vojvodina budget. With this in mind, I would really like to point out once again that the SPS Parliament Club wants to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also the appeal of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic to achieve a dialogue, a spirit of tolerance, so that what the finance minister has announced more than once over the next year, and the sooner we get the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which in one systematic and real way will solve this issue and we will no longer have any kind of politicisation of the issue. Only in such a way as to solve this problem, and I say to another dialogue, a quality solution is possible. I am convinced that the resolution Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30088	The word is Zoran Radoman, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30089	I must say that we are talking about the 2014 Budget Law and that we are talking about how it should be in accordance with the Constitution. I don't see the need, the return of a year, two or more backwards, but I am talking about this law and it is necessary to ensure the quality of the funds that should be in the AP Vojvodina budget. Certainly, the dialogue is needed, certainly, that we wanted to have this dialogue before and that we may have led it before, that we had led it in the course of the draft of this law, that we might not have come into the situation to submit amendments so that it would already be incorporated into the law itself, and if the fate of these amendments were the same as it was on the board, we really expect that we have in the coming days of the dialogue to talk about the future law and that indeed this Assembly will bring it in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30090	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Janko Veselinović and Teodora Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30091	Dear President, honourable representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, respected fellow MPs, counterpart Janko Veselinovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 which talks about the structure just as the province's secretary spoke about the structure of funds that the Republic of Serbia's budget goes to the AP Vojvodina budget. Col. Janko Veselinović and I have submitted an amendment to the work concerning dedicated and non-purpose transfers to local self-government units in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I would like to point out that as far as non-purpose assets are concerned, which the Republic defines through the AP Vojvodina budget for local self-government, are worth 7.7 billion dinars. Why did we think that dedicated and non-purpose transfers to local self-government units should not go through the AP Vojvodina budget? Under the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government, these funds should practically be transferred directly to local self-government in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. And it's regulated by Articles 37 to 43 and Article 45. These are dedicated funds transferred to local self-government. At the same time, we have pointed out in the light of this amendment that under Article 34 of the same law, or the Law on the financing of local self-government of the Vojvodina local self-government cannot transfer non-intentional transfers to local self-government only. In this way, by carrying out non-purpose funds through transfers of local self-government, through the budget of the AP Vojvodina, we are practically leading the AP Vojvodina budget to transfer funds for which there is no jurisdiction, on the one hand, and on the other hand we are aware that it is trying to reach the constitutional 7% practically defined as 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget defined by the Constitution for the AP Vojvodina. However, despite all the transfer funds, what we see well from the reasoning of the draft budget law, that total expenditure for the budget rises by 5.5% this year, that current expenditures rise by 3.2%. What decreases from the previous year are these transfers to other levels of government, according to the AP Vojvodina. So, with all the resources for education and local self-government, they're compared to the previous year at 96.3% and we're far below what was last year's bar on the plan, we'll talk about the realisation in January. So for this year it's planned to be in percent of 7.1%, for next year it's 6.4%. So, even with these transfers, it didn't work out 7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30092	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papugaa, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30093	I thank Mr. Chairman, our amendment refers to the quality of the funds provided by that constitutional minimum of 7%. We also, like the amendment of the Vojvodina Assembly, predicted that a portion of the excise income could be replaced, would practically replace the deficit that occurs when you actually account for 7% of the tax revenue. I think it's sad to know that Vojvodina has 26% of the population, 27% of the territory, contributes to the budget with some 35 to 40% depending on what agricultural season it is, and the percentage it contributes to the total GDP can also be discussed but certainly not less than 40%. That we can't find funds in the budget to meet this embarrassing minimum of 7%, but good. I hope that the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina will soon and finally be passed, so we will have the opportunity to, in accordance with the Platform that was brought into the Vojvodina Assembly, we may also get the Tax Administration, and there will also be transfer funds, but from up to the bottom, not from the Republic to the province and local self-governments, which is the main problem in financing the entire state administration, because in this particular case, the funds are distributed not by law, but by political preferences. The platform is a good basis to finally resolve this issue, here's the minister, so we've been promised that in the next six months we'll finally be able to put together a task force and write a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30094	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30095	It's a business thing. Your Honor. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Those of you who called us a little while ago to keep working, not in the O.R. right now, their cards are right there. Please, Mr. President, first, make sure that all the MPs whose cards are there, that the Service finds it and calls you again, because it's 22.15 o'clock now, this delayed transmission will go tomorrow at three or four o'clock in the morning. Do you think that, for three and a half hours, the transmission has not been in direct transmission, since 19.00 hours and do you think that the public of the Parliament's work is ensured by watching television broadcasts on the Republic of Serbia's budget tomorrow at half four Serbian citizens? Do you really think that's okay, Mr. President? You are still persistent, to continue ignoring our very well-intentioned proposals to interrupt the session, and here there are twice as many representatives, MPs of the opposition, rather than positions that can be counted on the fingers, and I find it not right for you to in any way to ignore it, I call on a part of the Rules of Procedure that provides the public with the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30096	I'll get you the statistics on the previous meeting tomorrow. I decided to do it in public tomorrow, to provide you with statistics on how many sessions during the night, how many laws were passed after 10:00, how many sessions and sessions, to see that it was something that was introduced as the most natural practice in the previous session, and why we would give up on these good democratic principles that were applied in the previous meeting. Some good things don't need to be changed. We're not always against everything that happened in the past. So, as for what you said about how many MPs are present, I really wouldn't dare to read it, because then every morning when the session begins, to find out that there are no representatives of the opposition in the hall, because they don't put their cards, which is the same as the Rules of Procedure, I rarely have to do when a card is inserted, I don't remember that before the quorum is established, that any representative of the opposition puts his card in the room, they are legally not in the hall, they are not registered and they are not there, and they can't be more interested in the criticism of the budget, because the representatives of the ruling parties support the budget, because they support the government that the budget is proposed. It is logical that the representatives of the opposition are more critical and that they are more interested, although by the number of MPs in the hall, I cannot say that this interest is enormous, but I cannot say that it does not exist. Mrs. Banovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30097	Article 225 may not be good, or Article 255. Looks like a joke to you tonight. You're kidding us. People's MPs, you are now saying opposition and positions, and we are explaining the amendments and we are trying to convince the minister and representatives of the ministries to accept it, but we are also hoping that we will convince our opposition colleagues that perhaps in the voting day they are voting for these amendments, so I don't think that if some MP is in position, they will vote unconditionally for all legislative proposals. Maybe we can convince those MPs. You've been joking a little bit, and you've said how you're going to get the statistics out of the previous call. It was, right, it was working late, some laws were passed, and it wasn't a good practice either. I join my fellow Members' invitation to stop working tonight, and I know that he is in a hurry, because there are still many amendments, but all parliamentary groups have spent mostly the general time they have, so tomorrow there will be no problem bringing the debate to an end in detail, and even as you planned, to vote for the budget. Mostly we're all tired and maybe not our discussions, you may not be, we are, not as convincing as we would be tomorrow, but I think we'll end tomorrow's discussion in particular, so please stop working tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30098	Mr. Mitrovica, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30099	I'm referring to Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I'm joining the suggestions of my colleagues, perhaps it's interesting that Mr. President that some of us got up at half past five this morning to get to the meeting on time, so yet for one more quality debate, I think it's correct for us to continue tomorrow at 10.00 this debate, regardless of all this bickering, whether the public is secure or not. We all know that the public has not been provided, and it is true that in the previous term we have done all of this, but for correctness and for the sake of fact, some MPs have risen at five o'clock this morning, yet I think you should accept these suggestions. I'm sure you'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30100	Thank you for your suggestions, but we're still working. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic to Sections 2, 3 and 13. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30101	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted an amendment that speaks, i.e. predicts that certain positions, when it comes to salaries, which are allegedly, or the mass of salaries that are allegedly limited and that the number of new workers is reportedly limited, are in some way making it difficult, and these positions that we have in the budget speak otherwise. For example, the position – diplomatic and consular representations, increases 950 million. So, seven new representations in various countries, Africa, Asia, I'm not going to say, but I think there are far more priorities than diplomatic missions in these countries. Also, an increase of 100% of the Offices for Rapid Answers, if we bear in mind that in the previous year the construction industry dropped 43% in Serbia, that 43% less construction and less construction jobs are being done, and one of the main tasks of the Office for Rapid Responses, to help investors who are not there, because we remind that investments in the last 15 years are not the only positions, I see the purpose of increasing 100% of the salary funding for the Office for Quick Answers and these are not the only positions. In addition to 1.5% of which are projected to increase the volume of wages, and this does not predict a pension outflow based on a 3% pension, we should not have any increase, when it comes to the mass of wages in these positions. For this reason, I have predicted redistribution, shifting to the positions of those who certainly have problems in operation, which are DRI, other regulatory authorities, and I believe that this makes much better use of the funds for wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30102	On Article 7th, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30103	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, representatives of the AP Vojvodina, dearly respected citizens of Australia, Canada of Serbian origin, this amendment applies to you and you are certainly able to watch this transmission now. The government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Prime Minister Dacic, led by Vice-President Vukic, predicted, dear citizens of Australia, Canada and other overseas countries, dear citizens of Croatia, 200,000 Serbs living in Croatia, millions of citizens living in Republika Srpska, Vienna, etc., this government predicted 100 million dinars for you, 100 million dinars for all your activities, for all activities concerning the preservation of Serbian language and letter, culture, customs, the possibility of using their language and letter in Croatia, the possibility of that language and letter of protection. In the same office, which is due to place these 100 million dinars for employees' salaries, a satellite transfer is scheduled, 200 million dinars. So imagine one office, which used to be a ministry, with a 300 million budget, of which 100 million were intended for the purposes for which the office was formed, and 200 million for the costs and use of these funds. So the ratio is 2-1. This amendment was aimed at redistributing these funds, so that the relationship would be 2:1 for Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora, 200 million dinars and 100 million for the administration. I think that's enough. I hope you agree with this, Mr. President. As far as I know, you have roots in the region, or your ancestors have come. I think you should support this amendment, too. I hope you haven't forgotten your roots. Some members of the government have roots in these parts, but most importantly, you owe the Diaspora Act and Serbs in the region to take care of them. Mr. Cross, you were part of the diaspora, too. Do you know that you have provided only 100 million for the implementation of the constitutional obligations of the Republic of Serbia to take care of Serbs outside Serbia? Do you know that? Are you aware that 200 million are scheduled for the use of that 100 million? There is a law on diaspora and Serbs in the region that obliges the state of Serbia to take care of these people. What are your morals, I'd say, obligations to these people? We can put that under question, but you have a legal and constitutional obligation, Mr. Krstic. You have a law that binds you to it. You have a constitution. I don't want to quote now a member who binds you to it. You predicted 100 million. That's 0.001 per person living in the region. What can you do with that money? It's a shame, like this session tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30104	On Article 7th, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. 3 amendments were submitted to Article 7 by MP Gorica Gajic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, we are aware of the situation that this is a restrictive budget, that there must be a lot of savings, but certainly they cannot save the same amount of money and poverty in this situation. When I say the poor first, I think of all of our local self-governments or municipalities, as we call them, in undeveloped border, devasted areas, which don't have enough of their own resources to invest in development projects, not to order, from infrastructure, to personnel. That is why we, the DSS and I, have proposed an amendment to reduce the amount set by the Co-ordination Body for the South of Serbia Medvedja, Presevo and Bujanovac by 46 million and transfer that amount to the Agency for the Development of Undeveloped Areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Because otherwise, in this non-purpose transfer these three municipalities in southern Serbia received significantly higher funds compared to other undeveloped municipalities in other parts of Serbia. So we have that Presevo received 388 million dinars from the non-intentional transfer, Medvedja 206, and Bujanovac 391 million dinars. By contrast, Bruce, for example, got 184 million Gagen Han 162 million, Store 205 million, etc. I could find more examples like that. Since these municipalities in southern Serbia receive significantly greater funds through non-purpose transfers, I thought it was fairer that these funds, which belong to them, i.e. through the Co-ordination Body for South Serbia for them, should also be re-designed for part of these municipalities in undeveloped areas, i.e. for their infrastructure projects, because these areas are devastated, the population is moving and will one day remain completely empty. For now, only villages are empty, but believe in a few years and these cities, or the seats of these municipalities, will be completely empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30106	The Government submitted amendments to Sections 3, 6, 20, 23, 27, 28, 33, 36 and 43. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30107	This is the chairing evidence of what I was talking about today, which is that this government, by submitting the budget, has also submitted budget rebalancing, which has never happened again. That's what made it impossible for us to even submit adequate amendments, because you amendments change the budget. We have submitted amendments to the budget, which in the meantime have been amended. You see how many members have been changed. These are key members with financial positions. This is proof of how you work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30108	On Article 7, paragraphs 3, 16 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The proposing representative and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, sections 3, 16, 25 and 30 of the amendments were submitted by MP Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Section 3, 19, 21, 23, 24, 25, 28, 30 and 31 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Section 3, 19, 20 and 22 of the amendments with correction were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30109	The amendment proposes that part of the 200 million dinar funds be transferred from section 20 – Ministry of Industry to division 19 – Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government to economic classification 511 – the city and construction facilities for the construction of planning documentation for the state path of the First Order Požarevac-Kučevo-Majdanpe-border with Bulgaria. In an explanation, which I have received, as well as other MPs, which rejects my amendment, among other things, I have called on the Space Plan of Serbia, as you say, to take into account the importance of this road map for the development of municipalities in eastern Serbia, as well as for the development of the Republic of Serbia, in the framework of the road rehabilitation programme and the improvement of road safety from 2014 to 2018 for the public road section of the first B order number 22 Požerevac-Kučevo-Majdanpe is planned to produce project technical documentation and carry out works in the total length of 84.9 km. The programme will be implemented by the Ways of Serbia, and the work will be financed from the World Bank's loan, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank for Reconstruction and Development and with the participation of the Republic of Serbia. I've tried, Mr. Minister, to find this plan listed here, which is the plan, or the road rehabilitation program. I'm interested, and I'm interested in the citizens of the area, or in the city I come from, is there any possibility of self-rehabilitation of the road, in addition to drawing up a technical documentation plan? I tried through the ministry today and through the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" to get to the document. In articles that have been coming out these days, you've been seen as someone signing this agreement with the World Bank and the other banks that are going to finance this. I'm interested in how we, citizens and of course we MPs can get to that document? I'm interested in something else. I wonder if it is part of a spatial plan relating to this part when it comes to first-row road routes, which refers to the period from 2014 to 2018, is this taken from the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia? That's the first part of my amendment. You may have seen, if you look a little bit better, I've put on an accent, as well as my colleagues and colleagues, precisely on the biggest differences, which is the very regional development that's a lot of talk about. I think he suffered a very big break this year. Of the 10 billion dinars scheduled for this year, it came down to a little over five billion dinars when it comes to the Ministry of Regional Development's activities. Also, when it comes to the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas, I think that the 120 million funds, which are intended for investment projects, are far below each minimum if it is known that 46 municipalities from Serbia are in that fourth category, and there are over a million of our citizens living in it, and I ask you once again to adopt at least a part of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30110	Member of the 7th Sections 3 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Jeremic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Vuk Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30111	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, 2014 and 2015 will be the key years in international relations when it comes to multilateral negotiations, on a new international concept of sustainable development. In September 2015, the UN General Assembly is due to adopt a new development strategy for the coming decades. The goals of sustainable development that will then be adopted in New York will replace the Millennium Development Goals. Serbia, as the chairman of the 67th General Assembly, found itself in a position to manage the process of structuring these negotiations. Many bodies were founded. Several forums have been established under which UN member states will negotiate this joint new development concept. As the country that chaired the 67th session, we made sure that Serbia was one of the few countries that would have a chair in each of these bodies. So, Serbia's representative will be everywhere and I think it is necessary that this country has one co-ordinated, one serious and structured performance towards these international negotiations. It's logical that such a species, I say, inter-resor coordination should be led within the government. It is not only needed for various government bodies, it is needed for state bodies, because the concept of sustainable development is a holistic comprehensive concept that should entail practically all aspects of the development of a single society, not only as a single state or as a region, but also as a single space integrated into a global family. That is why I have submitted this amendment, which provides for the establishment of an inter-resor body for the coordination of state policy on this matter. This amendment does not increase budget size. I could also say that he is, first of all, an expression of political attitude, not budget allocations. That amount I'm predicting, which as one group we decided to propose, ultimately, doesn't have to be spent. She's more symbolic and more political. It is an expression of the view that Serbia must be part of international negotiations when it has already fought for its position in each of these international bodies. During all our performances in the international community, we have mostly dealt with problems that are directly related to our space. This is a chance to be on some kind of avant-garde and to be involved in negotiations concerning the future, concerning the development of not only our country, not just our space, but the whole world. That is why I would like to appeal to all MPs to support this amendment that in the 2014 Serbian budget, in an explicit way, sustainable development is the state priority of the government and the whole country. Therefore, even for those MPs who have no intention of supporting the budget as a whole, I would like to appeal to them to adopt this budget. This budget is about us as one continent, as someone who is able to achieve state unity on the most important issues, sending a signal to the world that for Serbia in 2014, for Serbia in the XXI century sustainable development is one of the priorities. In the end, I want to say that, regardless of what kind of debates are being held, and I have heard the debates being held on the Finance Committee, I want to be explicit here, neither I, nor the institute at whose head I am, nor anyone involved in the work of my institute will in any way be related to the implementation and operation of this interresor group. So I'm not talking about projects that someone can do on the side where someone can get involved. In any case, it will not be a centre for international co-operation and sustainable development. I urge you once again to support this amendment, because supporting this amendment is actually sending a clear political signal where Serbia is part of modern international flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30112	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30113	This is a question to a government official who sends messages. I'm afraid you'll wake someone up, Mr. Baptizer. Mr Krstic, how come you didn't know what the Prime Minister needed, but was needed by an independent MP, or an MP who cares about the Prime Minister to overlook? How come you don't know what the Prime Minister needs in fulfilling his international obligations? How come the Prime Minister's Office, that's all I can ask you, doesn't know what the international obligations are next year? How is that possible? Is it a group or an MP or are we here to take care of the Prime Minister whether his travel expenses are enough, whether his tires are summer or winter? It's really not right. What are you doing in government?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30114	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30115	As Government, we have accepted amendments and other MPs and in the divisions of the ministries themselves, including the Finance Committee. I think it's a good institute like that to come up with suggestions, the ones that are possible at this point and make sense. Why don't you accept them? It's not about the President's office. It's about the vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30116	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30117	Member of the 27th President. Really, I don't understand. We've been working for 13 hours. And I think you've fallen a little too. I really don't want to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jeremic spoke, invited us here the MPs, to support his amendment. The amendment that has been accepted by the government, which has become an integral part of the Budget Law, is not said by MPs. That's why I think you've dropped your concentration and that's what you should have told him. On the other hand, it's really 13 hours too much. President, it's not about whether it's going to be on TV or not. Here today, she's completely disintegrated in a debate about the Budget Law. Mr. Krstic, as minister, has not said a word for two and a half hours. It's not a budget debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30118	But this has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, so please don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30119	I'd just like to ask you to stop and continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30120	Don't take yourself for the rights you don't have. Don't determine a minister or anyone else what he's going to do or how he's going to do. Take care of what your rights and rights are and defend and fulfill, and let all other participants in the debate defend their rights in the way they consider it best. The citizens of Serbia will assess who did a better job and in the first election to show whether we, you or someone else were right. The word has a folk MP, Dijana Vukomanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30121	Mr. President, I call on members 255 and 257 who say Serbian parliament sessions can either be public or closed. This is still a public session. It's not a closed session. No one's ever realized that. Also Article 257, which says public information representatives should be given the opportunity to be informed publicly. By being present, by following the work of this session, the public will be informed. I urge that we all remember that we live in the 21st century. The sessions are being broadcast online, the TV broadcast will be delayed, and tomorrow the work of this tide will continue. Therefore, in no case has the public been denied any information. We have plenty of work to do, and every item of this draft budget law represents one human right. Human rights are a broad category and each of us stands for one of our human rights. So I don't think we should limit the space of freedom and not have to complain. We're not those MPs who need to complain at some late hour of the night because they've been working for a long time. That's our job, that's why we're here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30122	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, on what basis? The Republic of the Minister? [[Janko Veselinović, from the post: I have volunteered for the replica of the minister.]] How can you at the replica of the minister, he didn't speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30123	Chairman, you're really tired, too. Minister Krstic answered me. Now I'm trying to say I'm not happy with that answer. Minister Krstic, it is quite normal for MPs to propose amendments, to be adopted by the government. It is usually done in positions involving citizens, individual positions concerning infrastructure, health, culture, etc. But it never happened, I say again, for five years I have been an MP, and it has never happened that the MP proposes to increase the budget to the Prime Minister for his travels or for anything concerning the President and his cabinet. It's normal for the Prime Minister's office to worry about that. I truly understand the well-intentioned proposal of my colleague Vuk Jeremic to correct what was done when it came to the cabinet of the government. I really think of it as well-intentioned. The man realized they didn't foresee any international obligations. But I don't think it's normal that the cabinet of the Prime Minister didn't realize what the president had to do next year, but that MPs should take care of it. We talked about this earlier, about Serbs outside Serbs, etc., people who dealt with these issues, and that's why I thought Mr. Jeremic would talk about it. Since he was dealing with this issue, I think it would be more logical that he intervened in that part, that he didn't spend himself looking for holes in the proposal that you made or the cabinet of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30124	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Vuk Jeremic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30125	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I simply want to underline it once more. This amendment is more of a political character than a budget allocation. The amount I suggested was more symbolic. If it compares to the total budgeted item for things that are on certain angles, it will actually appear to be practical, negligible percentages. It is about Serbia sending a message that sustainable development is its state priority. That budget, after all, doesn't have to be spent until the end. I do not believe that the projected budget will make some dramatic difference in the capacity of the Deputy Prime Minister, since at the level of the Deputy Prime Minister, this coordination is foreseen, not by the Prime Minister. After all, the government in which I was a member was scheduled to form one such office and one such group, and unfortunately for me this group never formed during our government. I don't think there is a need for future administrations to repeat the mistakes of the previous ones, and I think that this is one proposal that I simply don't see the reason why not all together, regardless of how we look at this new budget, we can support it, and in the context of our international efforts to be part of modern flows, to be part of the international discussion, not only when it comes to issues related to the Balkans, but also when it comes to global issues. During the 67th session of the UN General Assembly, we were part of an international discussion, and that is a very central part, if I may say so. It has paved the way for us to continue to advance these international debates even in the years ahead. This is one opportunity and my amendment is practically inspired by such a view of Serbia's position in the modern world.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30126	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30127	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I do not appreciate this proposal by my colleague Vuk Jeremic as my colleague Janko Veselinovic. I'm more of a sorry person. If I were foreign minister, the Prime Minister wouldn't have so little funds for foreign political activity, and that's fine. What else I disagree with and what I want to criticise, so the second part of the interpretation and presentation of this amendment tells us that we need something symbolic in the world to show about sustainable development. I would remind my fellow MPs that the Republic Government has adopted a National Sustainable Development Strategy since 2009-2017, that no one has been involved symbolically, that we did not have special funds in the budget, that it is known if you are a credible government, if you have credible ministers, that they provide these funds from the UN agencies, and that is how it was done in Serbia. I hope it's going to work, but obviously not in this government's term, because we need special budgets for that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30128	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Vuk Jeremic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30129	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that none of the MPs who wish to discuss this except me read my amendment well. So they're all making a mistake and talking about the intended funds for the Prime Minister. If you could read my amendment, you might as well see that no funds are provided for the Prime Minister. I'm talking about another institution within the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that our government, or government in which I was a member, has adopted a sustainable development strategy that envisioned the formation of a office like this that has never created it, and we can talk about it. Anyway, I think this is one chance to correct one of the mistakes made by the previous administration in which I was a member. I don't see why future administrations should repeat the mistakes of those behind them. This isn't a party question. This is not a question of the personality of this or that, including mine. In the middle there is better interstate coordination, as one number of those who participate in the work of our government well knows. From time to time, co-ordination in the previous administration wasn't always the way we wanted to have it, and that's why it would be good if this government didn't repeat the government's mistake in which we played the key role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30130	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30131	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly. Mr Krstic, do you remember that session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 8 October 2013 and that sketch of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, when he says – and where do some people travel all the time? What's going on in North Korea? Then he says to the people, "No one will travel to Lithuania to me." Then Ivica Dacic tells him – so she holds the rotating EU presidency. He is made as though there was nothing, so go on, but no one will travel anywhere while I ask myself. Don't make one policy here that doesn't have continuity and you bring it all down to the sketch and bring it all down to the farce to make the citizens like you. You're doing this job badly, and this midnight budget is putting you in a lot of trouble. You won't avoid responsibility to the citizens by hiding a budget session. They're giving you bad advice. You, as minister, should get up and go home nicely and say, "I want the budget to be brought in like Zoran Djindjic's, so that citizens can participate in budgeting." Then you'd be a great minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30132	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30133	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, I support this amendment, and I agree with Mr. Jeremic that this is an expression of political attitude and I think it is important for Serbia to participate in the adoption of a new global development strategy based on sustainable development. Of course, the concentration's getting a little low. I agree with the fact that Mr Jeremic warned that it seems that some MPs did not read the amendment until the end and discuss it. I would like to warn my colleagues in the DS that this amendment with the correction has been adopted and it is not about the item - the costs of the Prime Minister's trip or anyone, but of the vice president, but that the amendment corrects the budget reserves with 5.7 million dinars, which is from that total item of budget reserves of negligible 0.3%, as calculated on the Finance Committee itself, so, please, when we talk about the amendment to be extremely precise, to read by the end of the amendment and to understand that this amendment with correction has been adopted and not to mention any travel costs because they are not subject to the correction of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30134	Replica, MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30135	Regarding Mr. Kasalovic's discussion, I can even believe what he says. When you have a budget, so when you have... Mr. Chairman, may I proceed? Can you give me time again? There really was a throw. I don't know if you noticed. So when you have a budget, so when you have in that same budget the budget rebalance of the amendments and you have a correction of that amendment, do you think it's even possible to follow that? Is that even possible to follow when you don't know which of these amendments that have stronger power, or which are currently in force? We have submitted amendments to the budget. Meanwhile, amendments to the budget have arrived, while amendments to the amendment have arrived. Did you, Mr. Kasalovic, know about what Mr. Vuk Jeremic said now? You knew. I can trust you. Why, then, did you not submit this amendment if it concerns your party president, or the Prime Minister, or his cabinet, or we now hear from the amendment of a minister in that cabinet? Is it really now for the funds that are meant for international co-operation, is it for the Prime Minister's Office, is it for the Minister, for whom this money is true, or for whom it is not that money, since we hear that money is not needed? Isn't that right, Mr. Jeremiah? Now we've heard it's not about any money. We've calculated that it's about six million. One hundred million for Serbs in the region are foreseen, so it might be good if we added these six million to the Serbs in the region. Would that be good, too, Mr. Jeremiah?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30136	Replica, Mr. Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30137	Short. The amendment has been made in good time. It was delivered to all MPs. We discussed it on the Finance Committee. The finance minister was present. I specifically asked what 5.7 million dinars meant compared to budget reserves and I said it was 0.3%. I'm sorry you didn't have that information, but check with your colleague Mr. Djelic. He took part in the debate. He could pass it on to you so you could participate adequately in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30138	Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich. You've got another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30139	Dear Internet users, respected countrymen in Canada and Australia and throughout the diaspora, let me tell you that this is what the RS budget looks like when the budget and budget rebalances arrive in the same day, and then we are expected to have a midnight debate here, not knowing whether the budget debate or budget rebalancing is. It's inconclusive what you're doing and you don't have to do it like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30140	I have to say, there's no budget, no budget rebalance. The draft budget's here. I need to be precise. Mr. Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30141	When it comes to the amendment, there are no dilemmas. Whoever knows how to read, he read it, and he had a nice insight into what's in the material we're getting. The fact that some of my colleagues have been nervous lately and I don't recognize them compared to the mandate before when we were together in the ruling coalition. I don't know what happened. I can only recognize the rhetoric of my colleagues, the one that was once held by MPs who are no longer in the O.R. today and have not crossed the censorship. I'm really expressing my regret because it's amazing that today from that MP club, that big party, the DS in the O.R., they're sitting four MPs, and they're talking some nebulous stuff. They're talking about Australia, diaspora. They're saying some MP can't propose some change in the budget with the amendment. All amendments change something. When you want to cut something down, it's the same thing when you want someone to cut the guarantees. It is entirely the right of Ambassador Vuk Jeremic to suggest something. What it says is a political issue, as well as all political issues, such as the demagogue amendments when it comes to "Serbiagas" and that guarantees are not given because we all know the situation of our heat and the collection of everything. Let's get serious, if DS and my colleague Janko Vesenovic can do it. He's obviously nervous from today when he... . I can't express myself, but it was those who were complaining, so like -- oh, my God, Radenkovic was like this or something. Yeah, I've been like that, and I'm going to stay like that, and I'm going to stay like that, and I'm going to be so honest, totally clear and decadent about my colleagues from the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30142	Replica, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30143	Your Honor, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you should have told Mr. Radenkovic a warning. This is not the first time he's treated like this in the National Assembly of the RS. That was also the case when we discussed the budget in principle. He is insulting to MPs, to the National Assembly, which is the worst for Serbian citizens. He just said that the story of diaspora is nebulosis. He does not understand that 4 million Serbs live in the world, half of whom lived in a single state and now Serbia is a country of origin. Is the story of Serbs in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Hungary, Romania and Slovenia, countries we consider to be regional and should be cared for, nebulosa? Perhaps for him and his party, because many of them in the meantime became refugees precisely because of the policy they had led. The same policies as they do today, with rhetoric no less dangerous than it was before. Today, some of my colleagues called names as they called it in the 1990s, and we know after those stories, what's next. So, what points to the Democratic Party, the party with which they were in power in the previous term, and I must say that with the Socialist Party of Serbia, we have co-operated correctly, however, these cheap political points serve no one. I think this is just a way of distracting attention from the disastrous budget proposed by this government with a 7.1%) deficit, i.e. with a new debt of Serbia's citizens, which will suffer the consequences, i.e. in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30144	Mr. Jovanovic, are you answering the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30145	Dear President, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, have been broken. – the speaker can only talk about the agenda point, as a Article 107. The speaker is in session obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It is not possible to speak for parliamentary groups, or describe their behavior in this way. It's very late, they've been distracted a lot, I understand that, but you can't allow this kind of behavior. Mr Radenkovic may be able to speak to his fellow MPs in this way, but he cannot speak of us in such a way and you are obliged to stop him when he does so. If he has any intention of defending a new colleague and his amendment, he can't do it this way. Because if we're talking about how an independent MP can arrange the costs of the Prime Minister's cabinet, then it's logical that he has daily communication with him and that's why he does it. We have a right to talk. If that bothers them, I'm really sorry, but it can't be solved in the National Assembly. The nerves are safe, but only with them, because they're aware that you want elections and that you kind of dump them off your back and off your list. It's simple, you'll probably take some other partners that are closer to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30146	The word is Mr. Radenkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30147	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to replicate my colleague Krasic, I apologize, Veselinovic. I had no intention of insulting the diaspora. When I was talking about the diaspora, I don't know how my colleague expressed himself, why he even started with Australia and other countries in the region, but I had no intention of insulting anyone in the region or any of our people, that was not my intention at all. But to get up and say - good evening, Australia, respected viewers on the Internet, it's the collapse of the Parliament's dignity. What does that show? What's the quality of the debate? I absolutely don't understand it, and that's why I made a parallel with the parliamentary group, and that's why I lost my colleague Krasic, not my colleague Veselinović. Just for that reason, because I've just watched it for the past four years and I'm sorry to see it again. I respect my colleague, Veselinovic, from my previous term, but what I'm looking at right now, I don't recognize a man. It's completely incomprehensible to me that a man can transform like that. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30148	The word is Mr. Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30149	Mr. President, I'm really thinking if you're listening to what your colleague says, don't listen or think it's okay? Do you think the story of the MPs, has he transformed or not transformed, is it quite appropriate to discuss the budget? Did you get into the election story too, and did you just aim to dissuade the political partner in the next election in any way, blackness, etc.? Is that how you're having this evening's, or tonight's session? When I was talking about Serbs in Australia, Canada, etc., I was talking about the amendment to Article 7 of Section 3, the amendment I submitted to the government's proposal to provide for Serbs in the region and Serbs and diaspora 100 million dinars, and I suggested that it be 200 million dinars. That's why I was with my colleagues who weren't in the O.R., and a colleague who spoke earlier was not in the O.R., and he didn't understand what they were talking about, just how interested he was in the question of Serbs in the region and diaspora, just how much his party was interested in the issue always... So that's what I'm talking about. I did not say good evening and good morning because I wanted to humiliate the National Assembly, but because it was on the agenda of tonight’s session, that is, tonight. That's what this is about. You might want to take the phone out of your ear when you're following the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30150	Mr. Radenkovic is involved in the system to better hear. Mr. Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30151	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to return to the amendment. I hope that because of the adoption of Mr. Vuk Jeremic's amendments, no one will curse us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30152	On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljenko Dereta. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Divisions 3, 25, 30, 32 and 47 of the amendments with the correction were brought together by MPs Tamara Tripic and Jelena Trivan. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, submitted to Sections 3 and 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30153	Thank you. The amendment is an expression of the Democratic Party of Serbia's political stance. With this amendment, we propose that the funds that are intended to open an office for quick answers, which does not exist, I suppose, is not because they have never been allocated to it, I know that there is a regulation that is set up, that these 55 million dinars are invested in protecting the environment, or in co-financing protected natural goods from national interest. I don't have time to explain why it's not good to form such a para-state office, because if some institutions and other offices and institutions aren't doing their job effectively, I guess we should change it, not form some para-state body that's going to be fast now because all the other organs are slow. Then they'll stay slow, and this organ will give some quick answers. So this is a political stance through this amendment. I really call on my colleagues, here, let's say Mr. Atlagic, so Mr. Risticevic, so Mr. Milivojevic, Mrs. Gerov, and I also ask Mr. Pastor – are they planning to form a quick answer office in the AP Vojvodina? What do my colleagues think about the formation of a para-state body that will respond quickly, and all the other organs are slowly responding and 55 million dinars are foreseen, and throughout the budget is the story of some kind of savings?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30154	Mr. Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Donka Banovic. I think the budget is wasteful and this is seen with a naked eye at midnight, in the morning, at two o'clock, whenever this session is held, citizens simply see that the burden of crisis and incompetence of the government is passed on to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is inappropriate, not seen in history that citizens of the Republic of Serbia are forced to save, to increase their taxes, to increase their expenditures, and that as a result there will be no improvement in the quality of life, but rather the opposite. Serbian citizens are aware that they will enter an even greater crisis and even greater poverty. I understand absolutely that no one appears from members of the SNS, nor Mr Risticevic, nor Mr Todorovic, nor members of the former JUL. They're embarrassed and they have nothing to say at midnight. And they should be ashamed. It is good for them to be ashamed and for the citizens of Serbia to see the confusion and shame. I am particularly sorry that across from me are only SNS representatives belonging to Tomislav Nikolic's faction. I'm sorry there are no members of Alexander Vukic's faction, he's for saving. He was also a good critic of October 2013 at that cabinet session when he staged that play, but it is a very dangerous phenomenon that Serbian citizens are forced to pay out of their pockets the incompetence of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30156	I just have to tell you that Mr. Todorovic is from Vulin's faction. Please, since Mr. Vesenović has drawn attention that he does not call on a person and that their transformation or anything like that, then that is not what the MPs of your parliamentary group do. Mrs. Gerov, I have you in the system's application, but your parliamentary group has no time anymore. Yeah, but not in a way that causes replication. So just mentioning the name isn't enough for someone to get the right to a replica, only if his interpretation is misread. After all, you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, the decision is made by the chairman, or the president of the National Assembly. So the fact that one of the MPs would stand up and mention 30 MPs by name and give them 30 times a two-minute replica, it wasn't even at the moment of the will of whoever wrote the Rules of Procedure, so I wouldn't, of course, approve it. Mrs. Banovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. No, I won't give you a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30157	We're a little misunderstood about that call to replica. It doesn't always have to be a fight. I asked for a simple opinion on this amendment and whether the MPs really think that a special office should be formed now. (President: Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure and what is the breach? I also asked Mr. Pastor if they were planning to open up in the AP. It's not always a replica, it's an exchange of views. Injury Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30158	The replica is not what you said, it may be your free interpretation of what is a replica. But what the Rules of Procedure stipulates is that the replica is the right of the MP to respond, if it is misread, or if an abusive or offensive word is used for the MP, or for the head of the parliamentary group, if a parliamentary group or political party belongs to the MPs of that group. That's the exact definition of what the Rules of Procedure defines as a replica. In any case, either way, the chairman, or president of the National Assembly, takes care of the exercise of this right. Mrs. Gerov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30159	Members of the 27th and 107th president were injured, way of holding the session and dignity of the National Assembly. I can accept that your discretionary right to give me your word, since Mrs. Donka Banovic mentioned me. But I can't accept a violation of the dignity of this National Assembly, and I'll tell you why right now. I absolutely don't care who Vulin's faction is, who's Vuciceva or what's Tom's faction. We are today considering amendments to the most significant Law on the Republic's budget for next year. As an MP, I am extremely interested in the discussion with Minister Krstic. Indeed, I don't know how much you want me to understand right now, this debate has been deconceived tonight, so I'm really asking you to take a break and continue tomorrow, so that Mr. Krstic and I can discuss the amendments. Otherwise, if this goes on like this, we've heard here about some factions and some nonsense that aren't even the subject of the agenda and that I don't really care about at 11:00 at night. What kind of factions are we going to hear about by midnight?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30160	I must tell you, as far as your parliamentary group is concerned, you have used your time to discuss with the minister. So you're certainly not going to participate in any further discussion on the amendments, because you don't have any more time. The time for the parliamentary group and for the authorised representative of the parliamentary group has been spent more, except, of course, the applicant for the amendment, when their time comes. That's perfectly reasonable and no one will deny it, and that's what I agree with, but you have to explain it to those MPs who say it. Mr. Krstic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30161	The reason I didn't answer is because I think the topics we've talked about have been repeated. I've been keeping track, so I'm gonna say it again. It's not a problem. So we were talking about Vojvodina. We talked about Vojvodina several times during the day, and it is an important topic and agreement, we said that it is not worse or unfortunately, than it was the previous year, and that, as soon as possible, we will already initiate talks on the subject, to find system solutions. We were talking about the tax administration, I mean, it's important to us why the tax administration and the fight against the gray economy are of crucial importance so that we don't have to and so that we can consolidate where there's less pain, or on the revenue side. That is why the IT funds are defined. Then we had a series of amendments to Article 5 that fell under what we talked about earlier, which is that with the resolution ministries it was agreed. Since most of these go from credit to credit. With the restoring ministries, the priorities have been agreed and what dynamics the Corridor East route will work on, Vlassin Lake, Ruma, Loznica. The basketball hall, which I discussed with the Minister of Sports, etc. All fall under what in these difficult conditions the government had to prioritize in the far line. There was an amendment to salaries, and we had in principle a debate on why there was one natural debate, to call it that, growth in wages related to promotions and past work, and therefore cannot be removed from these appraisals. There was a question about where to find a document based on which these loans were signed. The document was adopted in August at the government and is called exactly as it was quoted. I'm sure it's a public document and certainly an integral part of these contracts that we signed even though I haven't been able to find it on the Internet, but I would recommend that it be freely, this one for the rehabilitation of roads, that you can address the government and the written way, and even the Ministry of Finance has that document, but of course it's the competent Ministry of Traffic. The same goes for the spatial plan, which is where I have to refer to the Ministry of Traffic. As for the Office for Quick Answers and Centralization, that is, finding some of these fairy-dog solutions. I think it is significant, especially for big investments, we have a red tape problem, and I'd like to see how he likes it. If you ask me what the real system solution is, because the system solution is to change these laws that are going to work at all levels. It is not a bad practice that for large investments, specifically and large projects identified as priority exist, in countries where systems at local level function, there is an office that drags investors through the whole process. So I don't think that's bad, and I'm also going to say that I don't think it's bad to do the same thing with the gray economy when we're talking because I think that was mentioned in the discussion, and let's say, the inspections that I don't think would be bad for us to centralize in one place and we have more organized work so we can contain it. That's something we've already discussed with the prime minister on some of these tips as bodies we have. So I don't think it's a bad practice especially where there's a great need and where it would be a great benefit. That's what I've recorded, and I think I've managed to cover everything. The reason I didn't answer for a word after each amendment is because I thought that from our previous discussion as well as discussions in principle, since the making of this budget was mostly driven by some principles that some of these issues had already been answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30162	Just to inform the National Assembly that we are on television, so the public of the work is fully secure. The word is Mrs. Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30163	Now I don't know, but I think I have a replica first. Are you going to give me the right to reply or to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the minister has just now answered some of our questions that we have asked through the interpretation of the amendment. It's just, I think you should give us the right to a replica now because we didn't have any after-exposures.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30164	Yeah, this is definitely a straight line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30165	A large number of amendments to the URS concerned precisely the creation of favourable conditions for investment. We are sorry that you did not accept any amendments, and you know the state of travel infrastructure in Serbia. The fact is that 80% of investors in the last five years have come to places along the highway. We in the URS believe that other parts of Serbia should be given the same chance and that road infrastructure must be equally regionally done. In Vojvodina, believe me, we don't have, no matter what the plain is and it's easy to make roads, we don't have well-developed travel infrastructure. Once again, you haven't answered me, how do you think you're attracting investors? You've abolished subsidies to create new jobs, you haven't passed adequate laws, you're giving 20 billion to losers. How do you think you won't build roads, how do you think business, production in Serbia is going to start, to get these young people hired? I'm just afraid we're not gonna stop at the edge of that ambis like you said, but that we're gonna fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30166	Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30167	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. And this is a replica, given that Mr. Secretary was in principle accountable to everyone. I had two amendments to Article 3 and Article 5, given that the Government has provided guarantees for the liquidity of certain enterprises, this time I am talking about the EPS, what these 100m euros will be used for and what else I want to talk to you about is the construction of that basketball hall, since we have the government's conclusion since 2010, that it will start to be built in 2010 and that it will be completed in 2012. Is there even a possibility that the project could be implemented and started in 2014 and that there is a possibility that it could be realized that same year, or how did you say it would be by 2016? Among other things, I also said that there is a great need for top athletes, basketball players, for this hall, since we have two teams playing in the Super League now and that they will need adequate conditions and how they will be needed for quality training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30168	I have to tell you, Mr. Pejcic has just now convinced me how wrong I would have been if I had interrupted this session sooner. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30169	About 100 million for the EPS, I didn't answer because that loan was amended, I believe it's changed, that you have, that it's actually investment, and I mentioned it several times during the debate. To answer this second, the basketball hall is part of the discussion on what priority projects are, for 2014, and considering that since 2010, it has not been done, which is no excuse, but given the fact that the conditions are what they are, this on the government's side is not estimated to be a priority in these conditions. I'm not going to elaborate economic policy again, because we've had several opportunities to talk about it, you've had opportunities with the economy minister several times, I believe, in the course of the debate, to cross the arguments as far as that goes. As regards road infrastructure, the government also discussed it as priorities in these years where there are limited resources and new borrowings that we have, taking into account the undrawn loans we hold on balances, and the priority projects on Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 and on the railway infrastructure, I have explained this earlier. Therefore, for EPS, the credit is the correct name – participation for the second phase of the TE "Kostolac" package, the construction of a new energy block at the location of Drvo Kostolac B phase II and the expansion of mine capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30170	The next reported word is Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30171	We cannot be pleased, Mr. Minister, since you have not accepted our amendments and I will remind you that I have proposed an amendment in Article 5 of Section 19 which provides for the construction of a fast traffic station of Ruma – Loznica. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said about necessity, but I am sure that citizens of these parts of Serbia will also not be satisfied and expect this path to be done in the coming period. However, you have now said that the government has its priorities in building both road and rail infrastructures. I'll just remind you that this assembly has made a decision on the debt of $800 million to the so-called. a Russian loan with the participation of the Serbian government, the Serbian side, 15%, close to a billion for railway infrastructure. To this day, no single dinar has been withdrawn, precisely because of lack of project documentation. I will also remind you that the obligation of your ministry, along with the Ministry of Traffic, was to deliver an investment plan to the National Assembly by the end of this year in railway infrastructure. I'm sure by the end of the year you won't be able to make it, despite the fact that there's at least a billion dollars waiting to be invested. Also, $25m from the Arab Economic Fund for Development, for the Belgrade Centre, is also waiting precisely for project documentation. What we expect of you is to put extra pressure on all those in the government who do not do their jobs, and all those who say they did not have time to do project documentation, not speak the truth for 30 years but, the Belgrade railway – at least waiting for a serious reconstruction and after 30 years when the money comes, when we raise the loan, someone tells us there is no project documentation. One high degree of unseriousness. I say once again, we are very unhappy and share this dissatisfaction with our citizens from western Serbia why you did not accept our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30172	The word is Mrs. Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30173	Dear Chairman, I'm really looking forward to having a direct transmission now, since my grandmother Stana has no Internet in the village, so I'm really looking forward to her being able to follow the exhibit now. I really think that we should consider this amendment that submitted the DSS to Article 5, given that we talked about this IT sector, because I have really prepared a lot for these amendments and I think that each of them should be well considered. Repeatedly, for the modernisation of the tax administration's information system last year, in 2013, the budget was planned for 1,175,000 and was planned in 2014 885,000, 2015, and then transferred in 2014 1.185,568,000, and in 2015 981 and when I collected it all and subtracted it, I saw that about a billion dinars were spent on modernising the information system. I expect that it will be this year, that it will no longer be spent, so 185,000 and 80,000,000 of these will be defined for the start of work at the Kotroman border crossing, because for the Kotroman border crossing, the citizens know, 42 million were planned in 2013 and 108 in 2014 and 107 in 2015, with the previous budget, in this capital investment plan, while 11 million is planned this year. When we compare it, and in the next 750,000 and when we see it, then we see that nothing can be done, what all those who do finance, you just left it to shut down this position, so that it stays the way it is, and with 80,000,000 it won't do anything here and we're not going to disrupt the tax administration either, nor are we going to reduce the importance of the new system software license and the accompanying information-communication equipment, but we'll certainly have the opportunity to start a real fight against the gray economy and thus save the ministers, as you said up to 150,000 euros. I really think this is a meaningful and very thrifty amendment, because it's rational, it doesn't just mean economical, sometimes it means reasonable.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30174	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 7, Sections 15, 20 and 30. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 7th Sections 15 and 16 of the amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Konstantin Samofalov and Milan Mirosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Section 16, 19, 20, 24, 28 and 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 20 of the amendments were submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Theodora Vlahovic, submitted to the 7th Sections 16 and 20 of the amendments. The word is Mrs. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30175	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 by proposing that from the point of view of obtaining domestic financial assets be transferred to municipalities and cities in Serbia, since 88 municipalities and cities should receive less than they received in 2013. At the same time, following a public finance bulletin issued by the Ministry of Finance, comparing the September 2012 and 2013, I noticed that virtually municipalities and cities in this year, in this period, achieved three billion and 300 million less, than in last year, which would mean about a fall in public finances, which is available to municipalities and cities, by 2%. As an example of why I suggested this, it would point to a drastic reduction in funds for certain cities and municipalities. Let's say for Pancheva that would be a fall of 71% next year, for Lykovac 52%, Fireman 43%, Subotica 37%, Zrenjanin 30%, Shabac and Bor 29%, etc., etc. These are exceptional reductions. Given the fact that not only are these reductions in this year, it's also about the government's moves and the adopted laws. We know that the income tax has been reduced and that it was the same part of the income to local self-government, and with this measure, financing will be compromised to certain cities and municipalities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30176	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30177	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor. I have already pointed out the violation of Article 128, which concerns that MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For the entire afternoon, the SNS Parliament Club has had the cards of MPs, who are not in the O.R., and they are so likely to measure time. They thought there would probably be no television transmission, so that it would not be seen, that the citizens of Serbia would not see it. They're possible at one of the rallys. They left their cards here. You, Mr. President, were obliged to warn the service to take those cards out. So it doesn't matter if we sit here and discuss the budget, and they sit at some rally or house, and their cards stand in units. It's nothing serious to you. On the other hand, I think you've hurt Article 87 again. Rules of Procedure. First of all, this session was not available to the public. We worked three hours past hours without television. I believe that this session, which discusses the budget, is the most important act in which Serbia is in charge of the next six billion euros for next year, which the citizens of Serbia will have to pay back, the citizens of Serbia should have heard, they should have known, and I think you were obliged to provide it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30178	I have to answer, because I'm aware that you did this precisely for television, because you repeatedly pointed this out in a period when there was no television transmission. Therefore, the National Assembly has provided full availability of work, for all media representatives can monitor the work of the National Assembly and inform the public about it. It is fully ensured that the National Assembly sessions are transmitted to both the National Assembly and the Internet in direct transmission. We're live right now, but the rest of the session, which wasn't, will be broadcast in a delayed transmission. So all the public, all interested citizens, will be able to fully monitor what was said at this session, which was discussed by the MPs, as the government's representatives said. As you can see, this heated debate at this time shows that there is a great interest in the MPs to work and I am very pleased. And also, after that, we have an amendment, where we're going to discuss AP Vojvodina, which is why we've made additional savings, because these people won't have to come to the National Assembly session tomorrow. I believe you're satisfied with the answer. National MP Mladjan Dinkic submitted amendments to Sections 16 and 20 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dusica Morchev. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 7th Sections 16 and 23 of the amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30179	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment concerns a whole new topic, so I hope that Mr. Minister, after this discussion, will answer me, since it is indeed a whole new topic that has not been discussed. We have proposed an amendment, which aims to comply with the 2014 Budget Act with the country's legal obligation under the National Minority Councils Act. The law prescribes a commitment in the budget to fund elections for national councils from the budget. On the other hand, this Law on National Councils also contains a provision under which elections for national councils are held, i.e. under which these elections are conducted by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration. Our amendment has been rejected. I have to say, I'm surprised about that fact. When we had the opportunity to discuss with you, Mr. Minister, or we have consultations, as representatives of parliamentary groups, I felt that you understood what I was talking about at those consultations, then I felt that I had convinced you of the necessity of accepting this amendment. This is the point, and this is the essence, that in the year 2014, direct elections will be held for the national councils of the national minorities. After four years, it's a regular election. As I have quoted two legal provisions, the state is obliged to fund the elections through a ministry that is responsible for the area of human and minority rights. The very fact that you come from a city where the percentage of minority communities is minor and the fact that you studied in a country, where there are no minorities, where all Americans are, should be sufficient reason not to understand an important segment of society in Serbia. So I'm going to quote some figures here, some facts that I think are important and that you had to keep in mind when you decided on this amendment. There are 908,000 members of national minorities living in this country, accounting for 13% of this country. They, or we, have the opportunity to form our bodies under the Law on National Councils. These bodies have public authority in the field of education, culture, media. These bodies are funded from the budget, the work of these bodies, and the election for those bodies. Four years ago, special voter lists of national communities were established. At this point, about 440,000 people are listed in the voter lists. They will have the right, or we will have the right to participate in direct elections for national councils within a few months. Four years ago, the turnout was about 55%, which means that this time around 25,000 people will participate in one election that will certainly happen next year. Because of that legal obligation I quoted, the budget was obliged to provide the necessary resources for these elections. If we compare these figures that I quoted with some parameters that are generally valid for parliamentary elections and the amount that was spent in 2008 for parliamentary elections, then we should propose about 90 million dinars for direct elections for national councils. We've proposed 50 million dinars because these are some costs that are necessary, and they are real. You, unfortunately, did not accept that. I must say that the explanation of the rejection of the amendment tells us that there is one ignorance, unfortunately, legal situation regarding this issue. In fact, you rejected the amendment, with a reason that funding the election of national councils is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, in accordance with the Ministry Act, but that the area is within the jurisdiction of the Office for Human and Minority Rights. I want to read Article 10(3). The law on ministries that unequivocally says that the Ministry of Justice and the state administration is responsible for selecting national councils of national minorities. I urge you to read Article 10, if you do not believe me, the position of Article 3. The Ministry Act and I call on your colleagues to read it, and for some future period, they don't write arguments that are not in line with this country's legal system. I know that you on the Finance Committee have given one explanation to the budget of the Office for Human and Minority Rights for the amount of 10 million dinars for these purposes. On the one hand, it's not where it should have been predicted, but it's a minor problem. The bigger problem is that 10 million dinars for these purposes aren't just enough. So, I was quoting some data. The election will be attended by at least 250,000 people. There will be at least 1,000 polling stations with three members of the election board. There will be at least 100 electoral lists in total, with 19 national councils of national minorities. If you compare all these parameters to 10 million dinars, then I think it's at least one ridiculous amount for these purposes. The second part of your argument on the Finance Committee is that this amount was practically requested by the Office for Human and Minority Rights. The minority and human rights office has no experience in conducting elections for national councils. Four years ago, we as a party and as MPs in these elections participated. The office and the people in the office weren't even responsible for it then. I want to draw attention once again to all the information I've been talking about, and I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to you to reconsider this amendment. If you think it's possible that with 10 million dinars, you're organising elections for 19 national councils for 250,000 citizens, for campaigns, for travel expenses, for election material and everything else that's usually part of the election process, then I don't think you've really evaluated those needs in a realistic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30180	The word is Mr. Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30181	You're right about the argument. We adequately explained it, or explained the part that relates to rejection. We could've done it better, so I'll tell you now. The office's division is worth 10 million since they've been divided into responsibilities. As I said on the Finance Committee, there are also 34 million dinars in the Department of Justice's division of 423 and 512, a total of 44 million dinars for this purpose, so that's also in the budget. I wouldn't agree with those suggestions you made at the very beginning about the implications for my views, but good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30182	People's MP Lasslo Varga, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30183	I'm glad that you've expanded the answer to this question on the Finance Committee in this way. This is how the amount that I trust you is planned in the budget is much closer to some real number. The only thing left for me is what position is he in at the Office for Human and Minority Rights? Where are these funds planned, in what position?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30184	The word is Mr. Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30185	On function 481.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30186	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30187	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a few things concerning the source for the national council and this amendment that has been submitted. After Mr Krstic's explanation that we really have 44 million in relation to that argument that was on the Committee, I think it's much more acceptable. The other thing that's the problem is the jurisdiction of the Office for Human and Minority Rights. The Office for Human and Minority Rights, I agree with SVM representatives, is not someone with certain powers under the Government Act or by decision to form the Office. We have been tripping around this decision several times, because the decision to form the Office clearly states that the Office is in charge of providing professional assistance to the Government, so on certain issues and all these issues are further listed which questions are being raised. So, the only thing that matters is that the Justice Department is elected and the only one who can organise the election, and that's where I agree with the SVM gentleman, is the Ministry of Justice, and that's where I believe it's going to be. What should not happen in these elections is that elections from four years ago should not happen, when it happened that these people who are in the Office for Human and Minority Rights organised the elections, but these elections were organised in a very suspicious way, and that way was that the ruling parties then set up their controllers and that these controllers were then paid. That's what I'm talking about, because it has to do with the budget. I'd like to ask you what we want to pay out of those funds. So we can't pay for the controllers that someone's gonna put in the bar, so they're from some party, and that's where these elections are going to differ from those elections that were four years ago. So, they won't have the ruling party setting up their controllers and not the ruling party to its controllers in such a way as to release them until 12 o'clock to control the election, and after 12 hours to get in the others. I'm going to set an example of where this happened so there's no confusion, so it turns out that my argument is incorrect. We had a situation in Bujanovac that the number was numbered in one polling post of 156 exit voters, whether Albanians or Roma, and 500 lists were found in the same polling post for a list proposed by one of the ruling parties. So, the question of funding and using these funds is a two-strength sword. If these funds are used, someone, such as the Vozdovec, is now being financed by an NGO that manages the elections with these funds for a political party because it has won a million dinars in these elections. Then it's a very dangerous thing and then it turns in a very dangerous way. So, what I can convey, the conversation that I did have as a coalition partner with the leaders, and from the SNS, and on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, one of the conditions, one of the reasons that we agreed on is that these elections, unlike those that were four years ago, are fair, that no major political parties are really involved in these elections by forming polling stations as appropriate to them. The Grand Duchy of Hungarians was fortunate to be in the local government in many municipalities in Vojvodina. Well, you didn't feel that way about what we are as one national community that's dispersional, where we're in every municipality. Then we simply experienced that the ruling party, let's say Zemun was a typical example of where they were setting up, so not the people from the locals, but who were setting up at the Republican level, who were in the power of their electoral commission, our voters released after our control, after 12 hours. That's what the OSCE knows about, everybody knows about it. You can imagine how fair choices are when they let you go of your controller after 12 hours, and by 12 o'clock, they're just controllers who are some others. I think four o'clock in the morning you can do anything. That it's really like I say, says a lot of data, says all those who controlled the elections, the international organisations we talked to. So we can't let these elections be the same choices as they were four years ago. In that sense, what I can say from my talks, which I had with the representatives of the SNS, whose member of the parliamentary group, that these elections would be really different. With this explanation that we got from the minister and this explanation of yours, I think we can create conditions for it to be different. And I'm also interested in whether the Office of Human and Minority Rights will use that ten million to transfer, say, to a man who is president of the Roma National Council, so he's trying to abuse that office for his own personal interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30188	Please, Mr. Shane, let's not share data on individuals, about personalities, especially that this has nothing to do with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30189	I'm sorry, Mr. President, just to get back to the amendment. So, I hope that these funds will be used for professional assistance within the government, and I know that I am risking now that the president is responding to it, but I don't think they're going to use these people to vote on the Vozdovec and in this way abuse their position and their lists that say who's funding them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30190	Replica, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30191	Thank you. So now we think we've cleared up the situation. These 10 million dinars standing in the Office of Human and Minority Rights are in a position intended for grants to NGOs. The position means funding the regular work of national councils of national minorities, which will say that the funds intended for regular work will be taken away from those 10 million dinars and used for the elections. I don't think that's in line with that legal provision I'm quoting, on the one hand. On the other hand, elections for national councils will be organised by the Republic Election Commission. Please, Mr. Minister, listen to me. The Republic Election Commission is certainly not an NGO. If the funds are intended to finance the elections, then the funds cannot be in a position intended to grant to NGOs. I think you've got the wrong idea about this part of the budget. Surely you have made a mistake and could indeed be a much more elegant solution whether you change your mind and accept our amendment, since this amendment is certainly in line with both the legal system and all these facts that I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30192	Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30193	Thank you. I'll check and I'll tell you exactly about that 10 million. We also have when other elections on 481 are the same for election campaign costs. We'll get you a detailed explanation tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30194	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30195	Article 106. Rules of Procedure. You probably assumed I'd come forward after the SNS spoke past the topic, along with data that raises suspicions of some earlier elections. Apparently, there are data that are valid for the authorities, so I ask the question - is the National Assembly the place where such assessments are presented, or is the competent state authority, the competent prosecutor's office responsible for the things that it has knowledge of? I assume you've been listening to what the MP was saying. He mentioned Zemun, the Leader, some other places. I don't know what election it is and what faces it is that I understand, some illegal acts and put him in an unequal position in some elections. It's a crime, as you know, as it happened in the last election to the locals in Novi Sad, so some parties were buying votes. Criminal charges have now been filed, unfortunately they haven't been processed yet. I ask the gentleman who presented these claims to the competent authorities, and if not, I pray that he does not present this information at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since this is not a courtroom even though some of your party's MPs have turned the Assembly into a courtroom.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30196	That's exactly why I stopped Mr. Shane when he started talking specifically about what the indications were. He said, however, that he had notified as much as I understood the state authorities, even representatives of the OEPS. I certainly agree with you, and I instruct him that all the knowledge he has about any illegal activities and illegal activities, to report to the state authorities who are competent to carry it out. I hope that all those who have in any way violated the law in any election procedure will be brought to criminal charges, i.e. to take appropriate criminal acts. I certainly don't think that's the subject of what we're talking about today. I'd move on. The MPs Jovana Joksimovic and Balša Bozovic submitted together to Sections 16, 20 and 21 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? You have no basis. [[Srdian Shain, from the post: President, Replica. The previous speaker mentioned me.]] That was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30197	The Honorable President, a member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly has been injured, as I have made very specific statements and these data can be verified. If you say it's incorrect data, then it offends the dignity of the assembly, and if you haven't noticed and you don't have enough information about the fact that such reports have been made, and if you don't have information that criminal proceedings are being conducted against certain members of the National Council for certain things, I don't want to talk about them because I don't think this is the place to talk about. I'm really sorry that you don't have that information, and I agree with you that I shouldn't be talking here, but I think it's a violation of the Parliament's dignity when it comes to it, and it would be a major violation of dignity if, for example, it was the truth that a member of your party sat in the National Council election assembly and conducted the election results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30198	Mr. Shane, you know this has been a very harsh abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30199	The Honorable Chairman, Article 109. I don't think unless it's a narrow party interest, you won't give the previous speaker a warning. So the previous speaker brutally abused the Rules of Procedure, accusing the political party that I belong to about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and self-injured the Rules of Procedure in the most harsh way possible. I don't know if there are any positions in the Rules of Procedure in article 109 that he didn't hurt with his previous speech and this speech? I'll consider it your continuance if you don't warn the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30200	It can't be narrowed down just because Mr. Shane is not a member of my party or party to which I belong, but he is a member of our parliamentary group. However, I must say that I understand under certain circumstances when it comes to national minorities, when members of certain national minorities, speaking of certain rights they consider to be denied and violated, show a higher dose of emotion. I wouldn't give Mr. Shane a warning just because he wasn't prone to that kind of behavior and he wasn't the kind of man who deserved it that way... . (National MP Janko Veselinovic throws out of place. No, no, I agree. I just warned him. I won't give him my word anymore so he can talk about something like that. On Article 7, sections 16, 20 and 21 of the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Jovana Joksimovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted amendments to Section 7, Section 16, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 31 and 53. Here you go. The word is Zoran Radoman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30201	Thank you. This is the third amendment that the Vojvodina Assembly has given to this law. It is rounding the desire and request of the Vojvodina Assembly to comply with the provisions of the Constitution that speak about the scope of the province's 2014 Vojvodina budget. With this amendment, we propose that the items in the expenditures of the Republic budget be reduced by 32 billion dinars in order to maintain a budget deficit in the scope of the law itself. The adoption of amendments to the Vojvodina Assembly would also give rise to the quality of the funds that would be in the Vojvodina province's budget. We could have 32 million funds, i.e. the entire budget of the province of Vojvodina, but above all we could meet the constitutional obligation, which is to invest three weeks of the province's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-12-0.u30202	Thank you. This is where we interrupt work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 52 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of National MP Olga Batic. We continue the search in details of the 12th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA FOR 2014. We'll wait for the minister to come in. To Article 7. Sections 16, 20 and 24 of the amendments, with correction, were submitted by MP Sinisa Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. Sections 16 and 22 of the amendments, with the correction, together were submitted by MPs Vladimir Ilic and Nikola Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vladimir Ilic.
