ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22675	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 29 August 2013 (The session began at 10.45 p.m. The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 113 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Thursday, on the basis of Article 287(2). Rules of Procedure, MPs have the right to request information and explanations. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? In the words of Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22677	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question concerns the independence of public services, or the independence of RTS and RTTV, which is seriously threatened, and in this way democracy in Serbia, because there is no real democracy, even in a modern sense, without independent media. It is clear that the ruling parties, above all SNS, are trying to put all media under their control, thus also the most important public service, RTS and RTV. It did so in a way that SNS, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, indirectly urged Serbian citizens not to pay the subscription anymore and thus brought RTS and RTS into a very uninvited financial position. RTS is in serious financial problems, while TV is pre-exiting and the practical program only maintains on the basis of the enthusiasms of employees and based on, I would say, some volunteerism, because they don't receive wages for three months, they receive late. While, when it comes to equipment and other techniques, there's no need in particular to talk about it, because practically on TV you don't have two of the same chairs and, practically, when you come to the studio, you need to take the chair from home. Unfortunately, this is a picture and opportunity of a public service that broadcasts the programme in ten languages, along with a Serb in ten languages of national minorities and by shutting down TV, there will be a threat to the achievement of the basic elemental minority rights of these national minorities whose rights are guaranteed by law and the Constitution. Not only does it broadcast a programme in minority languages, but it has special special programs, and even has a show for refugees and exiled faces and covers that population that has a lot of, or 50% of all refugees and exiled persons living in Vojvodina. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the first vice-president and future minister to deal with culture and information, since it will, in all likelihood, be under such a name in the next period - what will do not to shut down the public service of RTS and the public service of Vojvodina, what will do to prevent the end of their independence, or what will do to bring this endangered independence to that level, how does this exist in modern European countries, which means that they have independent funding, or independent of the will of politicians? The suspension of the subscription, i.e. in fact, has been lifted, and still formally exists, does not mean that citizens will otherwise not pay out of their own pocket the two public services, i.e., if provided for under the government's budget funding plan, it will also go out of Serbia's citizens' pocket. I do not believe that EU citizens or other countries will pay for these two public services. It's just a matter of wanting to control these two public services. As things stand now, it is on the right path for this government to shut down, that is, to silence the free word that can still be spoken to these two public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22678	The People's MP Olena Papuga has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22679	Dear President, fellow MPs, I would ask the Government and the Minister of Traffic – what happens to the tunnel below Fruska Gora, when its construction begins and when the state will see all the consequences of the traffic happening in the part of Fruska Gora, especially in the city of Irigo, where trucks enter the courtyard and do great damage and people in the area cannot live normally. I ask the second question to the Minister of Agriculture, the first Deputy Prime Minister, also to the prime minister, and to protest the pair that are banned from entering Belgrade. We know that the Paras are in a very difficult situation, we know that for the second year there has been drought, that they have not been given in time of subsidy, that they have been hit by another elemental disaster because the ice has beaten their crops and I suppose they will continue to protest these days without being able to enter Belgrade. I also want to find out or ask – should the pair be disguised as cheerleading groups, dress up as fans, and so get into town, because we simply know that all fans are allowed to run around the city, tear down the city, and the paors, will seek their rights, are not allowed to come before the government and seek their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22680	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22681	I would like to thank the President, the honourable Members of the People. Just three months ago in the town of Zajecar, extraordinary local elections were held in an atmosphere that resembled Beirut, in an atmosphere full of fear where some activists were beaten. After that, SNS came to power in the town of Zajecar in a coalition with the SPS. When the SNS says it advocates fighting corruption, the fight against crime should also show it in practice. Wasn't it enough for us SNS gentlemen to have 22 councilors to win under such conditions in the town of Zajecar, but you've come to those councilmen who weren't yours at the time, offering them jobs and other privileges? What kind of crime is this when you offer the board two jobs. Is that a bribe? Is that corruption? What crime is that? Will the SNS on the Zajecar city case show that the fight against corruption is not selective. The President of the City of Zaječar Assembly is a SNS official, Mr. Sasa Mirkovic and the current and current assistant of the minister of traffic, who in January, so we heard on the board, used his vacation, so he also used his annual vacation in June and May in the pre-election campaign, as well as today in Zajecar. In a situation where we have a situation every day to get someone killed on our roads, and he's the assistant minister of traffic security. I ask the minister of traffic to answer us – does Mr Mirkovic, his assistant, have 365 days of vacation, and on what basis does he receive salary in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when he is a nonstop in Zajecar? Mr. Mirkovic's haughtiness is also reflected in the way the town's session is called in, where the sessions are convened two hours before the beginning and thus enables the citizens of Zaječar to continue to suffer SNS terror. What kind of personnel do you have, you SNS? The mayor has barely finished high school. The first thing the current Mayor Zaječar signed was that he allocated 18 million dinars to his television set from the city budget. Is that corruption? They are independent media for SNS, and other television in the same city, where the father of the owner of television is a member of the city council of six and a half million. Does Zajecar, any city in Serbia have 25 million to finance the media? Is that a SNS cad? Such a mayor, the first thing to do is give his television 18 million and the second six and a half where he's a member of the city council. Is this your fight against corruption? On the other hand, there's a ruling by the Court of Appeal to return that television back to the city budget of 13 million and imagine what's going on in Zajecar? When the verdict arrived, an hour later, a session of the Assembly was scheduled and the city’s attorney was removed from commission. I ask Minister Selakovic – should the Court of Appeal's verdict be carried out? Why is such a verdict not carried out in Zajecar, and how are the funds allocated to the television "Best" and "EF channel"? On Saturday, two session sessions of the Assembly were held one by emergency procedure, and the other after half an hour, do you think you rule from the SNS. So, I ask Mr Selakovic to answer me – which crimes include offering two jobs to the board, in which way has payment been made from the city budget to the television "Best" and why no executive verdict is applied and by the minister of traffic to say why Sasa Mirkovic does not come to work if it is known that he is in conflict of interest and whether his vacation lasts 365 days?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22682	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22683	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Serbian government and its ministers deal with themselves for six months and whether they're on some shooting list, how to keep the chair, it's so-called. The reconstruction carried out in Denmark in one day, with us for six months and we still can't finish that story, until the citizens of Serbia can't in the ministry administration get an answer to any questions that bother them or solve a single problem. Let's start with, say, farmers. Agricultural producers and cattlemen and fruit farmers and winemakers and those who produce cereals and beekeepers all have raised problems. We forgot last year was a terrible drought, this year the state didn't get anti-building missiles, so they had a problem with that kind of thing. So they can't get an answer from the Serbian administration to any of their questions. That's why, say yesterday, agricultural producers from Banat, from Srema tractors tried to come before the government to make the government speak and do their job, but they were prevented from entering the city. Of course, their dissatisfaction is caused by the fact that various cartels, various tycoons, various monopolies, form prices and verify their work and their products to such an extent that they are now worth much less, two or three times less than they were worth last year. My first question is for the Minister of Agriculture and Prime Ministers – how does the state plan to solve the monopoly problem? Is that his job? When does he think he's dealing with this problem? The second question concerns the problems that people from the Kolubar district of Myonski region have, and have asked me to intervene, because they obviously cannot get an answer to this question alone – when they will receive subsidies for which the first Vice President Vukic said they were paid. In their accounts they weren't recorded. So they didn't get them, they didn't get the money, so they ask when they'd get those subsidies. The second question is that they can't sell cattle anywhere because the state didn't get enough documents on the health condition of those animals, so people can't sell calves after six months, and they live on it. The third question, again for the minister of agriculture and again for the prime minister, is a question that concerns beekeepers who have more and more problems, and gentlemen of beekeeping is one of the areas of agriculture that has the biggest perspective because honey is disabled in Europe and everything Serbia produces can sell, although Serbia uses only 0.5% of its pasture. Only beekeepers are required to have a certificate of bee health in the Animal Encouragement Regulation. There's no such thing as other branches in livestock. I'd like to get information on why it's like that and whether this is some kind of discrimination. Second, the Veterinary Authority forces beekeepers to carry out mandatory health care measures at only one health care station. I'm asking you, is that a monopoly? Who is the authority of the state to monopolie certain veterinary cells in its name that can thus form prices for them, and the producers, beekeepers, have no right to choose who will provide them with services? The third regulations are in the field of beekeeping that are completely anachrons, which are completely obsolete, which when compared to the rules in some other EU countries you have to smile, they are at around Turkey's Serbia level. When will your regulations be completely changed? What's going on with those regulations? Which is why they are like interpreters in a completely different way, for example, in the upper part of Serbia in Subotica than in the Kolubar County. Which is why they are interpreted differently and when they will be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22684	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22685	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because I really don't know which one I am fully in charge of the area I am interested in. On the other hand, while we're here talking about the government's reconstruction, there's life going on and people have life problems, and what our citizens are certainly interested in, and we all are child safety. After a couple of cases, the last time we had an awkward case around the amusement park. My question right now concerns the publishing of atheists to those who have fun parks. Who controls the entertainment parks, or the regularity of the equipment in them? Atest or permission to use this equipment is granted for what period? Whether there are regular controls and on what grounds extraordinary controls are carried out. This may seem insignificant to someone, but to me, when you have two tours that are organized according to the law and there are such accidents, then it's certainly an unpleasant situation for both the owners of these equipment and the parents, and for teachers who take these children on tours. So we wouldn't be in a situation where accidents are the ones that make us solve the problem anymore. I'd like from this assembly bench to appeal that we sometimes warn things. Let's see if there's really some kind of system-based area, and if there are solutions that won't lead to our children getting hurt tomorrow. And we all grew up in these amusement parks, and we all liked to consume these services, but no one had thought before about how safe it was until things like this started to happen in Pogorevc, in Sokobanja. So I ask again – is there coordination between ministries? What are the recommendations of the Ministry of Education when these questions are on the agenda, or when teachers take their children on a field trip? Also, as far as parents can feel safe or safe when they want their children in these difficult times to afford a little entertainment and entertainment. So, I'm going to do it again, who's checking the correctness of the equipment in the amusement parks? Are there any atheists? How much do they give up on? How many of us have such houses in Serbia and whether this area is or is not systemically arranged, because if it is not, it is certainly the task of all of us to arrange for the safety of children to be completed, and I think that is the most important issue for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22686	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue to work in accordance with Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft agenda decision set out in the request of 126 MPs to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013, which was convened at the request of 126 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you were sent a request to hold the 11th extraordinary session in 2013, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2013 the next Dn e v i r e d 1 was set. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions submitted by National Assembly President Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. We're going to work on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda - the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Inter-national Parliamentary Institutions, which was submitted by the president of the National Assembly of Dr Nebojša Stefanovic, received the proposal for a decision taken by the National Assembly of Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which you received more detail in the material. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single debate on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Does the promoter, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, August 29th, 2013 starting at 12:00 p.m. as voting day, on the agenda of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you, MPs. I'll see you in an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-29-0.u22687	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Before we move to a decision on the agenda point, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to a decision on the agenda point – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTARY INSTITUTIONS. Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the motion for a decision and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly is voting with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions by majority of the votes of all MPs. Dear Members of the People, member of Article 279(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that nine members of the Government have resigned, so it is necessary that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 279(3). The Rules of Procedure shall determine the resignations of those members of the Government. You have accepted the resignation of government member Susane Grubjesic as Deputy Prime Minister. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and finds that Suzanne Grubjesic has resigned as Deputy Prime Minister and has suspended her term as a member of the government. You have accepted the resignation of a member of the Government of Alexander Vukic as defence minister. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and finds that Aleksandar Vukic resigned as defence minister and that he was suspended from his mandate as minister. You have accepted Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's resignation as Finance and Business Minister. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and finds that Mr Mladjan Dinkic resigned as Finance and Business Minister and that his term of office was suspended. You have accepted the resignation of government member Mr Verice Kalanovic as Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and realises that Mr Verica Kalanovic resigned as Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and that she was suspended from her term as a member of the government. You have accepted the resignation of a member of the government of Milutin Mrkonjic as minister of traffic. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and notes that Milutin Mrkonjic resigned as the minister of traffic and that he was suspended from his term as a member of the government. You have accepted the resignation of a member of the government of Goran Knezevic as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and finds that Goran Knezevic resigned as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and that his term of office had ceased. You have accepted the resignation of a member of the government of Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic as Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and realizes that Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic resigned as Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and that his term of office as a member of the government had ceased. You have accepted the resignation of a member of the Government of Bratislava Petkovic as Minister of Culture and Information. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and notes that Bratislava Petkovic resigned as Minister of Culture and Information and that his term of office as a member of the government had ceased. You have accepted the resignation of a member of the government of Prof. Dr. Alice Maric as Minister of Youth and Sports. On the basis of Article 133(2), Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). Law on Government and Article 279(3) and (4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and finds that Professor Alisa Maric has resigned as Minister of Youth and Sports and has suspended her term as a member of the government. Dear People's MPs, you have received the resignation of Parliamentarians Branko Ruzići Aleksandr Antic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliament. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time to be elected, for MPs Branko Ruzic and Aleksandr Antić, on the day of the resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you.
