ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14752	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing that this ruling coalition, as well as the Serbian government, absolutely reminds the coalition and the Serbian government of the previous term. This fact or thing concerns the adoption of some legislative proposals that can be good, which are somewhat in line with European practice, but later, when it is to be implemented, there are huge difficulties on the one hand and there is absolutely no implementation of the law. Why is that a problem? The problem is for the simple reason, which is why we are causing the problem an entire aspect of European integration, problems in the economy, etc. The notoriously announced Law on Public Enterprises, which was adopted in December by this assembly, is absolutely not applicable. That's why I'm asking the prime minister, or the finance minister and the economy -- does the Serbian government enforce the Law on Public Enterprises? Last Thursday, at a session of the Serbian government, the government appointed boards to four public enterprises. For the sake of the public, I will remind you that under the new Law on Public Enterprises, there are no Management Committees, but there are Supervisory Committees, with a number of members. Each National Public Enterprise Supervisory Board has five members, one of which is necessarily an expert that does not belong to any political party, has a certain number of years of working experience. We have received a solution on the appointment of nine members of the Management Board -- "Serbigas", the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, Transnafta, and Elektromontage of Serbia, with the Serbian government absolutely not referring to the Law on Public Enterprises in this solution, but is calling for a decision to set up these public enterprises. Speaking of decisions on the establishment of public enterprises, I am also asking the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Business – why has the Government not agreed on the founding act of public enterprises with the new Public Business Act for a month and a half after the deadline? What higher power has made it impossible for the Serbian government to bring the act into line? You know what, there's a very small difference between what we're talking about right now, or I'm asking a question about the non-functioning of the Law on Public Enterprises or about what happened to us with the milk. The Serbian government, a ministry, also adopted standards for aflatoxin levels. It didn't apply, so we had a huge problem. That's how we get here. If the Serbian government does not respect the laws adopted by the Serbian Parliament, how can we expect and ask anyone, or Serbian citizens, of other institutions, to apply any other law? Also, I ask the Serbian Government – is there any public company monopolies who, since the entry into force of the Law on Public Enterprises, are advertised in means of information or in any other way paying for their advertising? I think that's the same important question, because under this Law on Public Enterprises, monopolies can't do that. Also, under the Law on Public Enterprises, all public undertakings using state aid, either in a direct or indirect manner, must adopt a spending plan and a rationalisation plan in the next period of their business. What public enterprises adopted this? If adopted, did they deliver their adopted spending plan and rationalisation to certain ministries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14753	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14754	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since information has been released that if Serbia wants to join the World Trade Organisation, it must open its borders for GM food. Serbian citizens are very upset, and they are rightly upset, as are all the citizens of the world who see their governments wanting to honor them with this evil. For a long time, the DSS has warned authorities, but also citizens of what is happening with GM food, precisely because it is aware that someone is deliberately or accidentally not giving complete and true information about the fact that joining the World Trade Organisation means GM food at the same time – of course does not mean. Genetically modified food, in itself, is not the subject of the World Trade Organisation rules at all. This means that Member States can bring full self-regulatory legislation in this area. For example, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, I can count for a very long time. After all, Minister Ljajic himself admitted it. Furthermore, the World Trade Organisation's rules say its members can bring their own regulation for their own safety, for example, citizens' health, including the ban and temporary moratorium on specific products, read, GMOs, based on risk assessment. I'll go back to the risk, just to finish another sentence. Finally, the rules of the World Trade Organisation are trade rules, above the health and safety of citizens. An example is a bacteria that destroys meat poisoning, prevents meat poisoning and the Alimentarius Codex. To go back to the risk. That's why I want to ask exactly what I want to ask is something I've read, and our officials' statements are in the "New Zealand Log", in the article "GMOs Enter Serbia, but Marked". The text says, "Let the country ban GMOs, but only if there is scientific evidence that genetic modification is bad, and there is no such evidence so far." It's half-information again, which means a lot. It means because the interpreters intend to. Of course there's evidence, of course they're available to everyone. After all, the Internet is available to everyone, if it doesn't read scientific journals and follow what's going on in the world of science. I warn you, there are studies of scientists called Pustaj, a scientist named Fagan. Finally, in September 2012, a long-term study of Seralini and his team, French sciences, which clearly said – in the first generation organ problems, in the second generation of tumors, in the third generation of sterility and high mortality very early. It is further evidence that the EU's citizens are preparing for a referendum to say whether they want genetic modification or not. It is also evidence that 800 scientists, indeed great scientists and large names from the world from 83 countries, have sent a public letter to their governmental American Congress, the UN and the World Trade Organisation. Please, there's evidence that GMOs are bad. Further evidence is that these large companies, which produce genetic modification, are currently working on it, are investing huge funds not to indicate that there is something genetic modification on the declarations. Why if it's good? Why if it's an advantage? The text goes on to say, "If a country asks another country, which is in the process of accession, to change the regulations on genetic modification, this country does not have to accept it, but will not become a member until all member states agree." We have two clear things here. First, it is very fine manners – you must pray. Secondly, it is clear what kind of blackmail these countries will suffer. My question to the prime minister – is it a genetically modified food path that he and his government want to lead Serbia? That's not what he said. He swore several times in the exposé that he wouldn't, but the headlines say otherwise. The second question – on the basis of which law do genetically modified organisms enter Serbia, but marked? No such law in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14755	National MP Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14756	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, my question is in the area of the economy. I am interested and asked the Republic Government - what will it do on the basis of the fact that the DS received, that this republican government in its mandate has entrusted Serbian citizens with four billion euros, that the average tax-free earnings and contributions in the Republic of Serbia in January 2013 amounted to six percent less than that salary in December 2013? Translated into the language of Serbian citizens -- that's 100 euros less pay for Serbian citizens at the monthly level. When we divide this four-billion-dollar debt, we get 1,400 euros from citizens per capita in this government's term. My question is this -- why did someone in the republican government give 10m euros for gondola, why did he give 15m for the Fiat subsidies, why subsidize the Fiat when Serbian citizens don't have money? My opinion is they don't have the money to buy new cars. Why don't you direct the FYI subsidies to treat patients who don't have the money to go abroad? Why don't you focus that money on pregnant women? Why not focus that money on talented citizens of Serbia, students who would be educated abroad? My proposal through today's question, the proposal to the Republic Government, if you favour "Fiat", if you say that "Fiat" is a national vehicle, that "Fiat" is such a good vehicle, I propose on behalf of the MP club DS Republic Government - sell all the vehicles in the park of the Republic government, sell "Merceese, Audi, Opel and BMW" and all drive as responsible government, as do responsible governments in France or England, drive your national vehicle, drive 500 L. It is the same recommendation for all local self-governments, drive that vehicle that is produced in our country and do not artificially subsidise the purchase of that vehicle, that citizens who do not have the money to survive from today to tomorrow, you say – you have a subsidy for that 500 L. I would now return to the citizens of Nis who are most affected by bad policy and this government. All the privatizations in Nis have failed. I ask the question and demand the responsibility of the people who have made privatisations of all 25 controversial privatisations, which are being questioned at the level of the Serbian state, two controversial privatisations are in Nis and I am interested in not only being questioned by those two but all the privatisations that have failed, and literally everything in Nis has failed. I'm sending you a protest from the Nis workers. 40,000 of them literally lost their jobs. There are 40,000 unemployed, hungry workers at the Nis Bureau who listen every day to some bank about a better life, and they live worse and worse every day. I call on Mr Dinkic, I call on the gentlemen of the Republic Government – give these citizens of Nis, the workers of Serbia whose salaries and outstanding obligations are unpaid, and make sure that those obligations are at the minimum so that these workers from Serbia, so that those workers from Nis can live with dignity, so that they can pay their bills for electricity, so they can pay their bills for water, so that they can buy their children shoes and give their lunch money. You've got a huge number of electronic, machine-powered, Hawk, builders who are still on strike today in Nis, who are trying to draw attention to themselves. What drew attention to this public in Serbia? The seal of a worker who is a loser in a transition that no longer trusts anyone, trusts this republican government and seeks the seal of this republican government. I don't think that the seal of the Republic government is saying anything and giving guarantees to workers in Serbia and the workers of Nis. I ask you to take seriously the problem of hungry people in Serbia more and more day by day, to let us go to the gondola, large hotels where they cannot fly and winter the citizens of Nis and the citizens of Southeastern Serbia and the citizens of our country because they literally have no money to live and they are interested in the main topic for all citizens of Serbia – how to survive from today until tomorrow. All other topics aren't that important. In the end, I repeat once again to sell your government's fleet, start driving all 500 L as a national vehicle as a responsible government as the French and English do, and from the sale of the car money you earn subsidize and improve the lives of workers and the life of pregnant women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14757	National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14758	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Republic Government concerning further engagement concerning the problem and re-production of the Tiger company, and I have to say at the beginning of this issue that there is indeed a huge dilemma for those who are today criticising the work of the Government, which is why workers among others and the company of the Tiger stock company were brought into this situation after 12 years by the DS authorities to lose their jobs, to lose their market. Did they have the support of the republican government at a time when the DS was in power or because of such inactivity of the republican government and other authorities at the local level were put in a position to be left to themselves and not have the opportunity to work and to keep their jobs? A positive example at the beginning of my question I must say, and this is the engagement of the Republic Government to assist the "Tiger" stock company when at the beginning of this assistance the Republic Government first singled out about 200 million dinars to help the workers of the AD "Tiger" to pay the remaining salaries and contributions to ensure that workers who were brought in by this non-requirement of previous authorities have paid contributions and certified health books. Furthermore, the republican government, through the finance ministry, has placed a 15m-euro credit line of the Development Fund as a guarantee for the restructuring of the Tigar stock company, and has also advocated through the Ministry of Finance and to provide a credit line of over 4m euros through the European Investment Bank. These are, therefore, positive examples of how the Republic Government can influence the improvement of the functioning of economic operators and how the state, when responsible people are at its head, can contribute to the improvement of all, especially those who have been brought into this very difficult situation because of the lack of care of the previous government. Unfortunately, there is another negative example in Pirot that the old policy still remained at the local level that the government did not want to interfere or want to take into account the problems of the economy, and today the local government in Pirote, whose head unfortunately was the representative of the URS, did not want to accept the proposal to consider at the session of the local parliament the possibilities for finding ways to help the action society "Tiger", but, by continuing with this arrogant and arrogant policy, turned its head and turned to what it had been for the past eight years, which was also the previous government building sidewalks, making up markets, and not making sure that it had to create a new value and not making sure that the budgets had to finance projects that would bring about the improvement, but also new funds in the budget. I therefore appeal to the Republic Government and ask the question – whether the Republic Government, and most of all those most agile in the field, will primarily be the first Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic to continue to assist the Tigar company in particular, bearing in mind that export transactions of over 65m euros have already been completed for this year. Also, considering that the appearance of very luxuriant business is related to the placement of domestic products on the foreign market, which we must accept is the result of the biggest engagement of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. I also have to point out that, since we are already in a situation to address the problems that affect citizens, in power, in a locale, there are a lot of people who behave arrogantly, regardless of which parties they are from, and so are those who are from the URS. Regardless of the pronouncing of the URS subparols that the URS will have zero tolerance for the haughtiness and pride of those in the local government, whether members of the URS or others, does not respond to the fact that the President of the municipality is Vladan Vasic, not taking care of how people live, 30 December, at 3:30 a.m., the official car of the municipality of Pirot caused a car accident by breaking a metal pillar that holds a semi-define and a light blinker at a spring crossing in the neighbouring municipality of Dimitrovgrad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14759	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14760	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of traffic, as far as the railways are concerned. The first question – did Mr. Mrkonjic recently drive a train, say, from Shid to Novi Sad and is he familiar with some data, because if he were familiar, he would certainly not give a statement that if Vojvodina had its own railway transport company, as she once had, it would lead to the secession of Vojvodina and that he would not allow it? I have to ask Mr. Mrkonjic if he's familiar with the data. I'm sure he didn't, because if he did, he wouldn't be making that kind of statement. The Vojvodina while it had its railway transport company, it had 44 electric locomotives, 10 electric motor trains, 94 diesel locomotives, 67 shinobuses, 161 passenger cars with 17,000 seats and six thousand freight wagons. The Vojvodina when it entered the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, the Slovenians introduced 2,250km of railways as a dowry. Today, the train from Sudotica to Belgrade is slower than it was trafficing in 1926, and the average train speed in Serbia is 40 km/h, which means that Franz Jozef was driving faster than today, if tried, Mr. Mrkonjic drives. Also, I don't know if he's familiar with the fact that in Vojvodina sometimes he drives 20 thousand people, and today he's transporting 400, since these Shinobuses don't even come. I have a question for Mr. Simenovic, director of the Serbian Railways, did he ever read the Constitution, since he said that Vojvodina cannot have its railway transport company, because it is the same as if every local self-government wanted to have its own? The constitution says that Vojvodina's autonomous province is part of the Republic of Serbia, and thus is not the same as the local self-government. What worries is that every attempt by the province administration and the province government is the only argument we hear in the direction of any decentralisation, or even something that is rail traffic, it's always very easy to turn to labeling. In the case of railways, I hope that the information published on individual portals is not correct, which is that the Serbian Railways will soon move on to the July calendar to cancel all delays, because large funds are being invested in the sector. I'm sure it's something that, like the Milk Regulation, will produce great results, because that way, the railways would finally get in line. Instead of taking more seriously reforms and for the first time considering what the province's administration has been proposing for a long time, which is to return to Vojvodina jurisdiction, at least in the area of rail transport.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14761	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14762	Mr. President, I would ask you to pledge your authority and that the Government begin to answer the questions of the MPs and to answer the ministries of which we have asked questions, as well as that the answers to the clearly asked questions are also clear. I asked the government three times the same question, one of the same questions and three times, instead of the government, corresponds to the incompetent Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. It's about issues of war damage compensation by fascist Germany done during World War II. What does the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy have to do with it? By the way, I'm not getting any concrete answers, and my specific questions are -- is the government planning to form a new commission to discuss the issue of war damage assessment, and done to the victims of World War II, because the commission, which was formed in 2008, expired in 2010? The second question – is there an agreement between Josip Broz Tito – Willi Brant in 1973 or 1974, and is this agreement a state secret? So the agreement exists or does not exist. Under the agreement, did the SFRJ then charge about a billion breast marks from Germany in the name of war damage? Did she charge or didn't she charge? Is that the issue of war damage between the two countries finally resolved? Will the government answer specific questions? That's what I'm asking for the next reason. I'm asking the Foreign Ministry this question, next to the government. If I ask the government, why does the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy suit me? This question has nothing to do with the department's jurisdiction. How could the media possibly know more than the Government for decades about all the circumstances related to the war damage payout negotiations, the negotiations that took place on Briony between Tito and Willi Brant, the payment of 300,000 breast-brands in cash and 700,000 breast-brands in credit? How is it possible that associations of victims and war prisoners of World War II know more about all this than the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What I think is a political conclusion, is whether the government has persistently refused to answer these questions further, in line with what is being promoted in the media, primarily on television with national frequencies, such as the "Sented" series in which "Sented" killed all Germans in Belgrade, and we know that only one German died during World War II in Belgrade and that in a car accident. They didn't exist. They didn't exist, they didn't exist, they didn't exist, they didn't exist, they didn't exist, they didn't exist, they Does this evading the government's response continue to preserve the damaged cult of Joseph Broz Tito, who at least was a statesman, at least was a real politician? It was a typical Stalinist, communist dictator who inflicted the most evil on the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14763	I will fully support your initiative that the members of the government are made known as soon as possible and as often as possible on the issues raised by the MPs. In this particular case, I just have to say that, given that the Ministry of Labour and Combat Affairs has a special department dealing with these issues that are responsible, in the area of the questions that you have asked, I believe that the answer sent by the Ministry of Labour is actually the government's answer. So nowhere did the government respond directly, but its authorised representatives, i.e. the ministry that is dealing with these issues in a serious way. Of course, if you are not satisfied with the content of this response, we will always seek a new answer and here I am fully on the side of the MPs. Any answer that you think should be more detailed, better reasoned, I will support the government sending a new answer, but in this case, the Ministry of Labour has been in serious jurisdiction over the Department of Combat Affairs, which is deeply concerned with questions from the domains of the question that you have asked. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Ministry a question, or Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. It is a question the New Serbia parliamentary group has asked in the past term, but the new circumstances in Serbia and a large number of our citizens' conversions require that we ask that issue again. Our oldest citizens, these are pensioners, government policy, in this case, when their pensions are below 15,000 dinars, are entitled to one-time cash aid. What we are interested in is - is it possible to take a step in that decision, in this sublegal act, and help those pensioners who have 15,070 dinar pensions, 15,200 dinar pensions, and this is the only pension in the house and the only source of income, and this pension is usually spent, given the age, on medicines, mostly on drugs that are very expensive, I have to remind you that in Kosovo, where we have these pensioners, medicines twice as expensive someone in Serbia, to make a step and to allow these pensioners to receive that help? For them it is indeed a great help of the state and a great care of the state. I expect an answer, as quickly as possible, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14765	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Mr Milisav Čogurić, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration and Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs in the field of justice at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue the work and move on to the search in detail on the second item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON SPECIAL MEASURES FOR CRIMINATION OF CRIME ACTIVITIES OF PURSUANT FREEDOMS. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Srdjan Miković, Snezana Stojanović Plasić, Jelena Travar Miljević, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Teodora Vlahović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Slobodan Homen, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milica Radović, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petković, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Donka Banović, Olgica Batić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Đurić, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Hajdarevic, Neđo Jovanovic, Stefana Miladinović and Zlata Djerić, as an amendment of the Committee for Justice, State and Local Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before moving to the search in detail, I remind you that MP Olgica Batic, in writing, withdrew amendments that she submitted on 4 March 2013 to members 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14 and 15. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill and Article 1 of the amendment, MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Mr. Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14766	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a while ago we managed to do a huge thing in Serbia, which is to adopt the Criminal Code, just to ensure the integrity and coherence of the criminal justice system. It didn't go a long way without proposing to amend the provisions of the Criminal Code, from the best motives, to regulate a part of criminal-legal matter, practically by trying to regulate only one segment in the area of criminal-legal matter. I do not argue that the motives to especially protect minors from committing crimes against full freedom are that it is absolutely commendable. However, as I put it on the committee responsible, it would have been even better if it had entered into the provisions of the Criminal Code, i.e. that amendments to the Criminal Code have regulated the area. This would ensure greater coherence of the entire legal system and would not put certain provisions, both the general and the special part of criminal law, in a different way will now be regulated. In this regard, given that there is a public requirement to prevent special measures from committing crimes against semi-freedom, I believe that the name of the law itself should be read just like that, and that these laws would prescribe specific measures to be carried out against perpetrators of semi-freedom and regulate the keeping of special records of persons convicted of these crimes. The adoption of this amendment will contribute to the equal protection of all, especially the protection of particularly sensitive persons, including minors. It's okay to protect minors in a special way. It is even more necessary in a special way to protect children, because there is a difference between a juvenile's criminal term and a child's criminal justice term. The child is 14 years old, and the minor is 18 years old. But there are also certain persons who, in view of age, experience in life, lifestyle, gender, health, nature, manner or consequences of the crime committed, or other circumstances in the case, can be particularly sensitive. In the view of the Government which has been determined whether this term – particularly sensitive persons – is defined or not, in this proposal itself, the law, as that term, is not defined, true, but in the text of the Bill, it explicitly states that, if the provisions of this law are not otherwise prescribed, the provisions of the Criminal Code, the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, the Law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors and the criminal protection of minors and the Code of Criminal Procedure will be applied. It's regulated in Article 4. It's a bill of law. The Code of Criminal Procedure will also apply in this respect, and the Code of Criminal Procedure will be defined in Articles 103 and 104 of the issue of a particularly sensitive person, i.e. a particularly sensitive witness. In that sense, there is the possibility of an analogue interpretation of these regulations and I think that, in any case, it is also necessary to protect pregnant women, also those who have certain special needs, persons who are protected by special homes, whether they are minors or minors. There are adult faces, as protégés of certain homes, which are characterized as minors. Should these groups of faces be protected in a special way? That's why I'm talking about this first amendment right now, but in a certain way, all those amendments I've submitted, and I've submitted eight of them, are connected. Why? It is also necessary to ensure the protection of minors by following up on all those persons who have committed serious, difficult acts against semi-freedom. If there is a crime of rape to a minor or to a nineteen-year-old or to an powerless person, according to an old person, does such persons, as potentially dangerous to commit a crime against a minor, have to be recorded in a specific way and have a special record for them? On the other hand, we are going to a wider extent than probably necessary, that and certain acts that are in that group of crimes against semi-freedom, but for which, due to less social danger, fines or very small short-term prison sentences are prescribed. And for those acts, if the law is adopted unchanged, we will come into a situation where there is no obsolescence for such acts, where the fine or the execution of a fine will never become obsolete. So, we're out of time in a 40-year sentence, 25 plus 25, so it can go out of date, but a fine for certain crimes against half-freedom will never go out of date. For the crime of murder, not minors, killing a child will be antiquated, and the crime of illicit sexual acts, which are easier to form in this group of criminal acts, there is no statute of limitations. In that sense, I call on you, now that we are considering all individual amendments, to think once again that the noble motive, the best motive for protecting minors from committing criminal acts, is that by just adopting the amendment we wanted to achieve this purpose, to record all those who could be potentially dangerous perpetrators, but that this, on the other hand, does not turn into a cartoon and that for something which is intended for a fine because of a small social danger, it is worse than a serious murder in the rank of war crimes or something that does not become obsolete, which is provided for by the very criminal law. Here we need to closely monitor what we adopt, what we don't adopt, just to achieve greater protection for those we need to protect. First of all, I think about children, I think about other minors, but I think about other particularly sensitive faces. In that regard, I propose and think that the amendment to the name of the law and to Article 1 should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14767	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović Plavsic and Jelena Travar Miljevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14768	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we talked about this a little bit when the debate was in principle. My proposal and my colleague, as well as the URS, was that from this law, which we fully support, which we believe was necessary to our legal system, in order to prevent the doing of the work against semi-freedom against minors, except for one category of minor perpetrators of these acts. Why did we suggest that? Because all regulated legal systems have special laws relating to juvenile offenders, because there is simply a tendency for minors, who have committed some crimes, to give them a chance to rehabilitate, to make possible valuable citizens of every society by applying educational measures, safety measures and other measures. The idea, of course, is not new, long ago it is known that there are different turbulences in the ageing period, that it is a vulnerabilities period for the maturing of each person, that peer groups in that period are dominants and a reference group for behavioral models and that, therefore, there may be various behavioral disturbances, and therefore even some criminal offences. The idea is to give these young people a chance to grow up in a healthy person and one day be, as I said, worthy citizens, to finish colleges and, as we would say, in the family jargon and in the social community, to take these children on a proper path. It was the idea and the adoption of a law on minors, and this amendment, which I have proposed, because we can imagine situations in which a minor of 14 or 15 years of age will commit one of the easier, I stress - easier works, which are foreseen by this law, let's say - illicit sex acts, enlisting in full rank, pornographic content, etc. So we can assume that they can be convicted of these crimes and then, by the fact of this law, because of such an act, they are given measures which, once they have, for example, 25 years, end some schools or colleges, have the opportunity to work in one of their own professions, it is disabled by this law. It was the idea of our intervention. In doing so, we had in mind the elderly, 16 to 18 years old, who, by law, could be sentenced to prison, in the case of the most serious crimes for which the sentence of prison has been threatened for over five years. I still think these older perpetrators of these most serious crimes, and when it comes to acts against half-freedom, that they should remain this law that will oversee them for the next 20 years. Why? Because if someone is 17 or close to 18 and commits a difficult act of the promise of a minor, or a child, perhaps even with a fatal outcome, I believe that, however, in the next 20 years, surveillance measures should be applied. So, the explanation the government gave I think is a mistake, but what we found out in the interview is that the board proposed an amendment similar to this, which exempts all perpetrators of minor acts. I still believe that only those minors who are minors and who have committed minor crimes against half-freedom should be excluded. If it is older minors, who are 17 years old, who have committed the most serious crimes, I repeat, the rape of a child with a fatal outcome, it should bear the consequences of 20 years of age and must be under the supervision of society, which should not be applied to a 14-year-old who committed a minor's crime against sexual freedom. This is what our amendment proposes, and I think this amendment should be adopted, not the amendment of the committee, which has modified our amendment mildly and our idea, which may also not be bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14769	Thank you. The People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Ciziki Dragan Andrić, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Teodora Vlahović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Slobodan Homen submitted together to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14770	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one in a series of amendments that my colleagues from the DS and I have submitted in order to, in our opinion, improve this text of the law, because the topic is very important and it was seen from the debate in principle. In particular, this amendment proposed amending Article 2. The bill states: "The purpose of this law is to make it impossible for perpetrators of crimes against the half-freedom committed by minors to do these acts." Our proposal is that this article reads: "The purpose of this law is to prevent the perpetrators of crimes against half-freedom from doing these acts towards minors." The government's explanation of why the amendment was not accepted is that the purpose of the adoption of this law is to prevent crimes committed against semi-freedom against minors from doing it again, and not the other crimes against semi-freedom that did it against minors. It is our opinion that the purpose of this law is to protect primarily minors from committing crimes against their full freedoms. This would allow, in fact, the next amendment to be implemented, under the influence of this law, that criminal acts against semi-freedom which have not been committed to minors, which have shown violent behaviour and which pose potential dangers for minors, to prevent them from working with minors and to do criminal acts against minors, in this area. We had in practice cases that the returnees who had first committed one of these crimes in the Bill's proposal according to a minor, then repeated it according to a minor. I know there's a border to retreat somewhere, and adulthood is one limit that applies to the acquisition and loss of many rights and protection, but in this case it's very discriminatory. If a crime is committed against half-freedom, although it is mostly women's faces, who are 18 years old and two months old, then the perpetrator would not fall under the influence of this law and it would not be subject to the measures provided for by this law, and if such a crime were committed against a person 17 years old, 17 and a half, it would fall. I think it's a very small difference, and that's why it's necessary to erase that difference and not make a difference with the perpetrators who have already shown violent behavior only compared to that. That is why we have proposed amendments to this article, and we will see further explanations through the other amendments that are related to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14771	People's MP Free Homen has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14772	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, this amendment, as my colleague has spoken, is very important first of all in terms of the following, because I assume that the intensity of this assembly and, of course, of the law itself, is that as much as possible reduces the number of these most serious, heinous crimes such as pedophilia and rape. Unfortunately, in the very text of the law, which I cannot blame the current ministry, because we as the Government have proposed this law, and it is understood that it primarily refers to paedophiles, which would be in one serious problem, which I will later talk about, that our country will not, as a model to other countries of Europe, also get a registry of rapists. Why does it matter? Why do I appeal to all parliamentary groups, when the government had no understanding to adopt this amendment, to imagine well and to do something useful and something that would be good because otherwise we would have to do the same job again? All European countries, including Serbia, must have such registers because it is not only the essence of the existence of registers that someone is subsequently punished after a prison sentence has been served, i.e. there are legal consequences of convictions, but to prevent such crimes from being committed. I'll remind you, if the law remains in the text in which it is, it will primarily refer to pedophile, so those who committed the crime of pedophile to a minor will suffer sanctions. The question is, what if a person rapes an 18-year-old girl? This law will not apply to him. If he did it with a 17-year-old, he'll apply. I think they're sick people here, they're multiple returnees, which I think you know very well, and that surely the age of a person doesn't prevent them from their criminal intentions. By adopting this amendment, the precondition to adopt the next amendment, which would not only apply to paedophiles, but also to rapists and Serbia would also receive a database on rapists, their DNA analysis, would prevent their travel abroad, and this law could truly meet its purpose. In that sense, I appeal, I will talk later about the second amendment, specifically what it refers to, how it would be achieved, but to understand the seriousness, because if the law remains in the unchanged text as it is now, I think a similar law will be found before the National Assembly very soon to make a register of rapists themselves. This prevents one long-term evil, we do a good deed for society, and I don't think anyone should be controversial about this amendment and the next. I don't think this should be a topic of any kind of politics at all, because what's a problem for the current government and the ruling majority, unless it adopts this amendment, during the first next criminal act of rape, someone might deliberately say that you wanted to make a register, something like this wouldn't happen, especially when we're talking about returnees. I urge you to think carefully and decide in the voting day to adopt these two amendments, which are primarily extremely useful for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14773	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Mr. Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14774	This amendment is similar to the amendment that colleagues have submitted, which is to amend Article 2 by saying: "The purpose of this law is to make crimes against half-freedom, especially those committed against half-freedom committed by minors, impossible to do these acts." So we need to prevent anyone who commits this kind of crime, from committing these crimes, among other things, from doing those acts toward minors, children, and particularly sensitive persons. In that sense, I believe that if this amendment is adopted, we go to those things that have been tried and to the Criminal Code to completely solve some matter, in a uniform way to solve matter. In front of me, I have a Penal Code written by Professor Zoran Stojanovic, the culprit. Mr. Minister told him he was talking about the best criminal in the country. We chose him as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, precisely because this matter is well understood. Let's read a little bar preface for the Criminal Code, so we'll see that all the changes we've practically proposed are just on the backs of what Professor Stojanović and Professor Škulić and many others are dealing with exactly criminal and legal matter. And that's why, we've tried, through this whole series of amendments, that the law proposed with the best motives, to be realistically applicable in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14775	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14776	Thank you, Mr. President, I just want to thank the DSS Group on behalf of the parliamentary group for accepting this amendment and for what the perpetrators of these crimes are going to do, not as it has been proposed, but to prevent these crimes from happening again. One of my colleagues stated that there was a very high percentage of returnees in the execution of these crimes, which is why the DSS suggested that they should not be deleted from the criminal record, that these acts do not go out of date, that the 20-year-old should be extended to permanent. I hope that through the amendment of the Committee, and perhaps today, in the debate itself, the Minister will accept the other DSS amendments, so that this law will be given the form that we all wish that in the Voting Day, we can all support it and stand out of it firmly, to prevent people who commit these crimes and commit them, let alone be returnees and after serving a prison sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14777	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from the peoples of Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14778	I suggested that Article 3 be done. The bill changes so that this law applies to criminals who have committed crimes against half-freedom. So, for all the perpetrators who have committed crimes against semi-freedom, either according to the adult, or according to the minor, by making further amendments, certain discrimination has been made whether or not and what measures are to be taken towards minors and minors. But where is the exception made? Except for two crimes. And these are for the crime of not allowing the full action referred to in Article 182(1). The criminal code and for the criminal offence of showing, obtaining and possessing pornographic material and exploiting the minor for pornography referred to in Article 185, but only Article 1. These are the easiest forms of these two crimes. In the part of the Penal Code that defines crimes against semi-freedom, they have defined the crime of rape, promises on a helpless person, promises with a child, promises of abuse of position, then, by undermining and enabling sexual intercourse, intervening in prostitution, by enforcing a minor to attend full-time actions, by using a computer network to carry out crimes against a half-aged person, and these are serious criminal and serious crimes. These two crimes that are listed may be in a lighter or more difficult form. Here I come from the fact that those forms for which the fine has been threatened, should not be treated by this law, but should be treated by the Criminal Code, with the possibility of legal consequences up to 10 years, and not necessarily 20 years. Because unauthorized sexual acts can be carried out by an executor act, in order to satisfy sexual lust, by touching one person in an area that is not decent, for the lower part of his back that has lost his honorable name. And it's a felony. It could be a crime. This crime has been threatened, for example, with fines, but legal consequences if someone 18 and one month does so according to one of the 17 years and 11 months in a situation that can be. It's been causing legal consequences for 20 years. That deed never goes out of date. The murder of a child goes out of date, but that deed doesn't go out of date in the bill. The execution of this fine, unless we amend the law, never goes out of date, the execution of that fine. The execution of a 40-year prison sentence, but it does not obsess over the execution of fines. Well, we're in violation of the legal system. That is why my proposal to separate these two basic forms or an assumed case of the display of certain pornographic material from this law. The shopkeepers in the kiosk, not knowing and not paying attention to what's on one's daily list or one of the tabloids put on the front page, hang it on the kiosk, the minor passes, because she put on something that's been committed. It's a fine. But if that person gets fired, he can't get a job in the next 20 years or as a housekeeper at school, because it's an establishment where the kids are. In that sense, I believe that the law should be strengthened to all crimes against half-freedom and to minors, and to the adult, and to single out only these forms of crime where fines are threatened, precisely because of the less social danger of such acts. This will bring us closer to those positions that are present, criminally legal positions in the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14779	Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Dragan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14780	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, for the representatives of the ministry, we in LSV have submitted this amendment in two directions. First, I'm going to look back at this one, to say the first part, given that the government hasn't even explained the reasons why this amendment didn't accept it. It is, in fact, that we have proposed in this amendment that the law applies to perpetrators who have committed the following crimes against minors, so we have stated that it is a criminal act of rape and promise over an powerless person in general. The bill states that this law applies, only if the qualitative circumstances have been met, i.e. that there has been a serious physical injury, which is certainly attributed to the offender’s failure, i.e. that the work has been carried out by several persons or on a particularly cruel or particularly humiliating manner or to a minor, etc., i.e. in paragraph 4, is prescribed if death occurred. It also refers to the promise of an powerless person, where it is left out, in our opinion unwarranted attitude 1, such as in the case of rape, where attitude 1, or attitude 2, is left out. In our view, these qualitative circumstances, given that the execution of these crimes is attributed to the perpetrator's intention can only be difficult circumstances, but there is absolutely no reason to apply this law to the perpetrators of the crimes of rape and the promises against the powerless person at all. It's about this first part. We suggested that this code should also be applied to the perpetrators of the crime of the storks, which we pointed out in principle when we discussed the bill. Namely, no matter what crimes are involved, not in a group of these crimes, but in a group of crimes against marriage and family, protective facilities from also a minor. In our view, it's even more dangerous when it comes to a relative in the right line. So we think there's room for this law to apply to the perpetrators of this crime, no matter what it's from a different group. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14781	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments we come to, in my opinion, the most important amendment, perhaps to the essence of this law itself, and I really think that there should be an understanding in the National Assembly, and finally, the end and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that this amendment is adopted in the day of the vote. I'm going to say again what I just said. In particular, the amendment states that, in addition to the existing criminal acts, that is to say, the positions of criminal offences to which this law applies, the rape in paragraph 1, point 2, in order to complete the rounding of all perpetrators of the crimes against semi-freedom, so that in our country all perpetrators of these most serious crimes are uniquely sanctioned. It's a big shift, and it's a big deal that we get legal consequences and life control after serving the prison sentence of a pedophile, but I think it's twice as useful to have it against rapists. It's hard to measure what's a serious crime or crime, I don't know what to call pedophile and rape. I don't think we as the National Assembly should make a difference. I find it extremely useful to apply these measures to rape, especially considering that a small difference is whether or not a male person, any female sex who has been raped is 17, 18, 19. This way, for all rapists and paedophiles, a unique database would be created. We would have DNA analysis, which would be in the police, would be a very simple way of detecting the perpetrator of the crime after the rape. Because if you had a single database, you'd be comparing the data to the one that's already committed the crime. If we know, and I think we know very well that there are a large number of returnees, I believe it would be much easier to detect these crimes. Why does it matter? You know that today in our country, unfortunately, often a great shame to report rape, especially paedophilia in the family, and that the existence of such a unique base for both paedophiles and rapists would make it much easier for both the processing and the detection of crimes, both for the police and the prosecution. I think Serbia would also be placed in the order of modern European countries that sanction this kind of behaviour in a special way. On the one hand, this is a reduction of certain human rights, when you take someone's data in advance and you forbid them to travel abroad, but we must not forget how terrible and difficult these crimes are. By adopting this amendment, as well as several predecessors, I see that they have proposed a very similar amendment and other parliamentary groups. I think we'd put an end to this whole area, so we wouldn't have to discuss it in parliament anymore, and that the competent authorities could in peace only apply this law. It shouldn't be forgotten, of course, that it takes some time for the authorities to and the authorities to get the prison sanctions to be carried out, which will probably be their biggest job to set up a system. But once you set it up over the next few years, we could really have a good precondition and a good basis to make it impossible to repeat these crimes as much as possible. That's why, here's the last thing I'm going to do is appeal one more time. Please feel good about your voting day. I think it's useful for everyone, that it doesn't do anyone any harm, that it's politically good for both the government and the opposition and that simply, most importantly, if we stop this register and the rapist from being raped, I think we've done a big job. I urge you to consider pressing the button in the voting day and doing a big thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14783	National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14784	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Col. Homen explained very closely why we submitted this amendment, which is related to the previous and makes up one continent. I would like only this way to appeal to all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People to support these amendments in the day of voting, thus allowing for a more complete protection of minors from committing crimes against half-freedom against them. The introduction of the rapists' records will indeed complete the records of the perpetrators of these crimes and prevent them from potentially being tempted to repeat the crime, but this time towards minors. In order to point out the importance of these amendments, I would like to point out that as applicants of these amendments with a great deal of credibility we have considered and submitted these amendments. My colleague Vlahovic worked as a lawyer, my colleague Homen is a lawyer who has a very rich experience in this practice. I also worked as a lawyer, but I also want to point out that I worked at the end of the 1990s and early 2000s in the NGO of the Women's Rights Centre in Vrsac, which was the first to have an SOS phone for victims of violence, where we mostly had women and children exposed to violence. I can confirm from this practice that it is necessary to introduce these measures of protection and prevention, so that those who are prone to violent behaviour in contact with children do not come to jobs where they would be tempted to apply this violent behavior to children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14785	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 3. I believe that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14786	On behalf of the promoter, the amendment proposed by the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14787	The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, we have submitted this amendment and we have asked it to prosecute crimes against half-freedom against minors. Our amendment has not been accepted, but the amendment of the Justice Committee has been accepted. We thank you this way for that. In fact, it was not accepted, but it would be accepted because we had a session of the Justice Committee, where the amendment was accepted. The only thing left is for the government to formally accept it. The reason for this amendment is, of course, a lot, but I'm going to say that one that's most important. Every form of sexual abuse against children is a traumatic and painful experience for each victim, and especially for a minor child, who naturally leaves traumatic consequences on his, not only health, but on his psycho-social development. In that sense, we believe that the victim of such a sexual act should not be limited by any time limit in its assessment whether or not he will turn to the court and prosecute the perpetrator. That's why we think that a child should gain a certain level of maturity, a certain level of independence, that it might be quite freely, say without any fear of retribution, and without any fear of blackmail, to face his past. I am pleased that the amendment of the Committee will come out even outside the framework of the Lanzaro Convention, which predicts that antiquity for these crimes begins to run from adulthood. I'm glad the government will probably accept this amendment, and we'll show how aware we are of the gravity of this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14789	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 5 and 5. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers the amendment with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? For the last one. Come on, I'll come back for you. You need to act a little faster. Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14790	I'm sorry, but my unit isn't responding, and several times I'm going to try to get a word in and not react. That's why I apologize and thank you for giving me your word. I will also join what my colleague Milica Radovic said on behalf of our parliamentary group, but it seems important that I say a few more things, precisely because our parliamentary group has had the intensities to protect itself from actually joining what the government has expressed its wish, which is to create a truly quality legal framework that should protect children in the area of abuse and sexual exploitation. I must say that such a framework, until then, did not exist, nor did it protect children, nor did it actually punish those who were perpetrators of criminal acts. Of course, I'll try to explain it from a completely different aspect, I'm not a lawyer and I can only listen to these arguments that lawyers have given so far. My area of work and what I'm talking about here is protecting the rights of the child, and that's why what our MP group wrote as an amendment is actually very important. So on Article 4, we wrote that criminal prosecution for crimes committed at the expense of a child or a minor does not go out of date. It's a good thing this amendment was accepted, it doesn't matter if we did it, whether it says directly that what we wrote or the Committee was accepted, doesn't really matter, but it seems to me that there's one more thing to say, in order to meet what we've accepted by signing and ratifying the "Lanzarot" Convention, we need to change the Criminal Code. It is very important to say that it is necessary to get into these changes quickly, because it seems to me that we will have no effect if we do it under one law, something remains unresolved under the second law. And just because things are done that way in our country, I have to say the third thing I want to just comment on, and that's what a child is, and what is a minor face? This country is a signator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and must be consistent with the fact that it has ratified and used that definition - what is a child? A child is a person under 18 and in all laws it must stand as it is. Unfortunately, we have a definition in different laws, different interpretations, and that is why a person up to 18, so a child, a minor, has different rights and different protections. I ask you as Minister to really consider when we come into a situation to change laws and criminal law, to make sure that the Convention is respected. The Convention on the Rights of the Child must be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14791	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14792	Thank you, Mr. President. I've also reported on this amendment. We also support this amendment and I would like to say that there was general agreement and in the principle debate over the fact that these crimes should not have an obsolescence or at least that it should be in a much wider scale than it has been. It's really completely illogical, and I don't know how it's happened before that after six years, a sexual crime against a child or a minor, given the fact that it's absolutely not mentally mature or capable of reporting a crime like this. We know that a large number, a huge number, although the intensity of this law as said by fellow Cvian are predators, but predators are often family members, these are mostly in the vast percentage of people who abuse, sexually abuse children. So, fathers, fathers, foster parents, people who work in childcare facilities, etc., relatives, neighbors, so people who are familiar with these children. Children are under a special psychological burden to report someone so close to them or who they know well, and often they are not aware of the situation that is happening and what is sexual abuse. If someone is seven or eight years old, we'll all agree that they can't even properly judge whether it's something normal that may be happening in all families, which is a normal relationship between, say, fathers and daughters, or something that comes out of the box allowed and which is socially punishable and undesirable. Children who grow up, they really need a lot of time to resist this kind of adult behavior, to become aware that they can report it and have the ability and power to be both economically and psychologically independent of these perpetrators, so that they can report these crimes. In my town of Leskovac, two, three days ago, a man was arrested, detained, who made a promise on his stepdaughter. He's the stepdad of a 13-year-old girl who's mentally distracted. You can imagine the monstrosity of that crime and whether that girl can now or in six years report that crime. I think it's very good that we've all been unique about this, that as a society we've become aware of, that as representatives of citizens we've brought this, or that we've joined the initiative of some NGOs that in their experience have had these cases, and I think it's very good, that we're going to show that we're a society that is conscious of our own responsibility, to protect children who cannot protect themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14793	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14794	Since I and the Committee spoke, if we've already moved on to the Committee's amendment? Not yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14795	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 4? No, I don't. ) Title above Articles 5 and 5. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 5 and 5. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14796	Also, this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14797	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14798	I must say that I have discussed this amendment on both the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. There's nothing questionable about the title itself. It's not a good part of the dispute, it's not a questionable part of the prosecution itself, it's not a questionable part of the prosecution itself, and it's not an obsolescence of criminal prosecution for a good part of the crime that's provided for in that criminal code chapter. However, I repeat again that to introduce, not to delay criminal prosecution and the execution of punishment, fines for the easiest forms of criminal acts, for which a fine is intended. This represents nonsens and thus practically in a different way, the diametrically opposite way we define the issue of obsolescence in relation to the Criminal Code. We in the Criminal Code have defined the obsolescence of criminal prosecution. The course and termination of the limitation of criminal prosecution, the limitation of the execution of the sentence, the limitation of the execution of the secondary penalty of the security measure, the course and the termination of the limitation of the limitation of the sentence of the security measure and the immutability of the criminal prosecution and the execution of the sentence defined by Articles 103 to 108. Criminal code. We have here, practically, that in two years from sentence to fines, the execution of fines is outdated. Now we're in a situation where the execution of fines never goes out of date, and it can happen that there's an outdated execution of prisons for 30 to 40 years. Systemically, it's not right. That is why, if my amendment were to be accepted on Article 3. A bill where criminal acts, where fines are threatened, are practically removed, and for all other crimes committed according to minors, minors, particularly sensitive, we apply this law, we approach what is provided for in the current Criminal Code. We're in a situation where, for example, the limitations of criminal prosecution, meaning 25 years from the execution of a crime, for which a prison of 30 to 40 years can be held, it's outdated. Hunting for a crime, where a fine is threatened, never goes out of date. Don't do that. So where the fine is threatened, let's get it out. For everything else, I am prepared to vote absolutely not to be an obsolescence of all of this, whether or not it is disrupting the legal system, but don't do such crimes, which precisely because of the small social dangers are intended fines. I think that if we accept that difference, then the more coherent the legal system will be, the more uniform it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14799	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14800	In Article 5. The proposal for a law has been defined that the criminal offence referred to in Article 3 of this Act cannot be mitigated by the court’s application of Article 57(1). A criminal code and that such a person cannot parole. This is about banning punishment and parole for those who have committed a crime against minors. I asked for a stricter story, that the perpetrator of a crime referred to in Article 3 that was committed according to a minor or other particularly sensitive person, could not ease the sentence and could not be paroled. I repeat that in our criminal and legal theory and practice in the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is defined that, for example, especially a sensitive witness, questions in the process can only be asked by the authority in a procedure which will address it with special attention, seeking to avoid the possible adverse consequences of criminal proceedings by personality, physical and mental state of witnesses. We define by the Code of Criminal Procedure that these are the persons we especially have to look after. That is why I believe that, according to all the perpetrators who have committed the acts, whether according to a minor or to a person who, in view of age, life experience, lifestyle, gender, health status, nature, manner and consequences of a criminal act, or other circumstances, should be considered a particularly sensitive person. Does a person with developmental disorders, who is a protégé of a home, regardless of his age, need to be relieved by the application of Article 57(1)? You say you should, and I don't think you should be relieved. Can this perpetrator be paroled? I don't think you should, or the one who raped the pregnant woman. Tell me who can vote for such a thing and say that it should ease the sentence or that it should allow parole? I don't think that when the work is done to such particularly sensitive persons, it should be relaxed. I think we contribute to enhanced protection of both the underage and the particularly sensitive and the entire social community at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14801	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Olgica Batić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14802	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues, and I have submitted an amendment both to Article 5 and to many other members. There's a total of nine. I've applied to this opportunity to say that I'm not going to orally explain any of my amendments because, after all, when you submit the amendment, there's a text bearing the name of the explanation, so it's clear to everyone if they read something like that. I'll say something I said again. I'm not in the mood to convince the promoter to accept something the government didn't accept, and I'm not going to do that in a blackmailing manner -- look again, so I'm going to think about whether I'm going to vote for your law. This MP group I belong to already said it would vote for "Maria's Code." Besides, today, many are calling for changes and additions to the Criminal Code, so if nothing else, they have had the opportunity to read at least those amendments and additions to the Criminal Code that I have given, and they have not looked, or read, they have not heard, seen etc., so I don't think they have much right now to call on it. My personal opinion is that any proposal for a solution, even if that solution is in the form of an amendment, you know, opinion, after all, and your court will give time, not any authorised proponent, or any government, whoever does it. In addition, more important than this subject and more important than any amendment by any applicant, so I also classify myself, since I have submitted a lot of amendments, is a sacrifice whose name, unfortunately, this law bears its name. To explain, I have opinions, and such rejected amendments, which will not be accepted, most will probably not be accepted and thus only increase their minutes, and many of the MPs here knowingly abuse it, I don't think they will contribute to the unhappy family of Jovanovic, nor many other families who share such a tragic fate, and who are anxiously waiting for the "Maria's Code" to be voted upon, and who I know that this presentation today and this discussion of the details closely monitors and monitors everything that is said and how it behaves when they express their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14803	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahović, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14804	Thank you. I am pleased that this amendment has been adopted, not in the form we have proposed it, which I believe is completely irrelevant to who the amendment is, but to the Committee on Justice. The point is that crimes don't go out of date. I wouldn't talk about it much. We've already heard why it's important. I think what it is is the essence that these crimes are not always reported to the competent authorities, that there is not always a prosecution of the criminal, and therefore very often they become obsolete. Very often, children, who were the subject of this kind of most terrible abuse, only when they become full - age or when they become human, do they dare to talk about it. In that sense, I think this is very important and it is very good that the Government or the Committee have found an understanding. After all, the minister accepted the amendment. I don't think that when it comes to this kind of thing, we shouldn't care about who the amendment is, or whether it's the ruling majority or the opposition, that it's completely irrelevant. It's important that we get as high-quality the text of the law as possible. Anyway, I welcome the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14805	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14806	Thank you. Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I, as well as my colleague, wanted to express my satisfaction that such an amendment was accepted, whether it be our amendment or the Committee or other fellow Members from other parliamentary groups, because we see that most of the amendments that have been submitted can be divided by the members to which they relate and that from several parliamentary groups we have very similar amendments, which means that we have all considered this bill in a similar way. In the course of the debate, which was conducted in principle, a unique position could be heard, that it is necessary to protect minors who commit crimes against their semi-freedom and that it is necessary to implement these special measures against the perpetrator of criminal offences, by insisting that it be also against the perpetrator of crimes against semi-freedom not only minors, but also against other persons. Research that has been done so far, and from the personal experience that I have had working on an SOS phone with persons exposed to violence, it is clear that minors who have been victims of such crimes against sexual freedoms, depending on their age, are often not aware that they were victims of committing crimes. If they are in years to understand it, then the problem is that the perpetrators are often from their environment or family or from the circle of family friends, and then they hesitate to report such a crime immediately. Often, the perpetrators of these crimes in their violent conduct are willing to blackmail victims who have been subject to such a crime, to blackmail, if reported, to do something to them or their family members. That's why these victims very often retreat into themselves, don't talk about it and suffer the consequences of their lives. Sometimes it takes years to reach some maturity of life to just talk about it. I think it's very important because it's been accepted that criminal prosecution for these crimes doesn't go out of date, because the perpetrator of a crime like this, which I can freely say about a detestable crime, although there are other terrible ones, but to minors, it's particularly terrible, because it's reflected in their entire life, they really need to be brought to justice at some point in time. So I welcome the fact that these crimes are not out of date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14807	Thank you. Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14808	For me, this law is complete with the acceptance of this member, and I would also like to thank the minister and the resolution ministry who heard about this amendment and for the support of all MPs and MPs from various parliamentary groups. I also believe that time is a significant factor for adults who are victims of violence and that minors and minors are often in an emotional and economic relationship with a rapist and that 18 years ago they are not able to, whether medically or psychologically initiate the whole process. On this occasion, I have to thank the Incest trauma center that has endured and has been consistent in the initiative to end this obsolescence of the sexual delinquent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14809	The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14810	Dear Ministers, honourable vice presidents, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am now bound by the words of my colleague Dubravka who spoke of this. I wanted to go along with the arguments given by my colleagues, who, along with me in front of the DS parliamentary group, submitted this amendment, to what Mrs Dubravka was just saying. It is that we have heard as women parliamentarians who have joined the women's parliamentary network, we have engaged in activities run by the Incest Center, since world statistics say that one of the five children in the world is experiencing this kind of violence. By giving this meaning and realizing that we had the opportunity to amend the Criminal Code, we wanted to help minors to take advantage of Maria's law as soon as possible, without further amending the Criminal Code, we felt it was very useful for this measure to be implemented at this time and right in Mary's law. All my colleagues who have had an amendment to Article 4 or to Article 5, I express my satisfaction and gratitude for accepting the amendment committee which is technically correct and is identical with the content of all of us who, in the same sense, have proposed a number of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14811	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14812	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group has unequivocally supported such a legal and systemic solution, given that in and how quality changes are made to this law. The quality of the law is improving, and the degree of criminal and legal protection is rising to an extremely high level. What is very important to point out in this sense is that, after changing this part of the definition of the law, it must also be approached by amendments to the provisions of the Criminal Code relating to obsolescence. We'd be in a situation where we have a collapsing of the Criminal Code as a postulate of material criminal law and a special law that we're discussing today. I have no doubt that the Proposer, the Ministry of Justice will approach both amendments and additions to the Criminal Code and to this provision. What is important for Mary's law is that the introduction of this provision, the elimination of obsolescence, the prosecution of the perpetrators of crimes, and the humanistic aspect create what is important, and it is important to take everything in order to prevent any possibility or remove any possibility that anyone in the relaxion of those who commit crimes can take an illegal action, an incriminating action in which all the elements or features of this crime would be acquired. So to be honest here is totally irrelevant whether it supports the SPS, DS, SNS, it's important that citizens recognize the quality of this. It is important that all of us together, regardless of political orientation, regardless of party membership, support such a change and it is undoubtedly for acceptance. In that sense, thank the ministry as a promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14813	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Đuric, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment with an amendment proposing to add a new title above members and members of 5a after Article 5. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14814	Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I congratulate the students on International Student Day, and secondly I would refer to one good thing that happened in Parliament. It is that the Ministry of Justice accepted the argument of the MPs when we talked about how important it was to introduce this institute of non-determination of criminal acts against semi-freedom towards minors. That's great because we've kind of overcome certain ideological differences, certain differences in our political attitudes, all in a common goal, which is to protect minors. I don't think it's necessary to explain anymore why it's a good thing that non-depreciation has become an integral part of this law that's on the agenda. I think it will greatly improve that kind of protection of minors. Therefore, we in the LDP have no problem in accepting the fact that the Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed this amendment without the adoption of the LDP amendment, or the MPs from our party, because we have not only submitted this amendment for the sake of achieving certain political points, but we have recognised the problem of what will happen if the non-determination of these crimes that are directed towards minors is not prevented. Once again, I'd be undermining if we had achieved our goal. The argument of the MPs has been accepted as valid and in some ways we have improved this law. It is crucial to point out that this institute has largely raised the quality and level of the law in question. So despite the fact that none of the MPs can say that his amendment to this has been adopted, everyone has agreed that they have commended the promoter for accepting our suggestions and we have all commended the committee that has also found appropriate to respond and submit the amendment. So this isn't about vanity. This isn't about politics. It's only one common interest that is important for our society, and above all, for those who are the most vulnerable part of this society, which is minor faces, so our children. We have very bad experience in the conduct of criminal proceedings, when it comes to such crimes, such as the endangerment of the half-life freedoms of minors, and for this very reason, it is important that we, as a society and as part of this country, react and realize some good ideas, even though these good ideas came from the ranks of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14815	Anybody else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14816	We planned to first speak Mrs. Radovic, but fine. This amendment concerns the part – the legal consequences of the conviction. We added besides the legal consequences of the convictions that stand, which is the termination of public functions and everything else, another, and that is – the ban on erasing from criminal records. In the DSS, we personally experience this law as a special law in relation to the existing system. We believe that these crimes and the subject matter of the protection of this criminal law must be special. We have a lot of understanding as to why the special rules apply to these crimes in relation to the existing rules and to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code itself. We therefore propose to add a ban on eradicating criminal records. Why does it matter? There is a judicial rehabilitation, which, after the expiry or service of the sentence provided for by the verdict, after a certain period of time, comes the erasure of the judicial rehabilitation and the erasure of the criminal record of the perpetrators of this type of crime. What does that mean exactly? It means that a person who repeats rapes or another crime promises a minor, or child, after erasing from criminal records and judicial rehabilitation will not be considered a returnee. So we should leave here the possibility that a person who, after judicial rehabilitation, repeats the same crime may be considered a returnee, precisely because of the importance of all these crimes and the object of protection by this law. We believe that a ban on eradicating criminal record should be imposed, in order to prevent anyone who, after a judicial rehabilitation, of course, is considered to have never been convicted or committed a new criminal offence, we believe that in this case, this must be inserted and that he is a returnee if he repeats the same criminal act, not that the law is treated as uncondemned, because they are minor penalties if he repeats the crime. If he's rehabilitated, it's a minor punishment than if he stays in criminal records and considers himself a returnee. Since this law strengthens the protection of children who are being abused, we believe that this stricter sanctions act preventively on all those who have already committed a crime, who may be rehabilitated or not rehabilitated or are only in the process of rehabilitation and thus contribute to the fact that new crimes are being prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14817	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14818	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm just going to ask you to take my time from an authorised representative, if you can now and for the previous announcement, to leave time for the parliamentary group. As my colleague Michael said, we here predicted a new legal consequence of the conviction. In addition to the termination of public office, in addition to the termination of employment, the ban on obtaining public office and the ban on establishing a working relationship in institutions where working with minors is understood, we have also provided for a ban on eradicating convictions from criminal records. You have not accepted this amendment, with an explanation that the data contained in the special record is kept permanently and that they cannot be deleted. We don't accept this argument because we think it's two completely different things. The data kept in the special record is one thing, and the data, or convictions that are conducted in the criminal record, is another thing and we can't even them out. Rehabilitation is erased, all legal consequences of the conviction are deleted, and most importantly, the person is considered uncondemned. Then the question arises – can it be considered at all a socially justified fact that, for example, a person who committed a crime against semi-freedom against minors, whether it is a criminal act of rape, a promise against a minor or a promise against an impotent person, may at any time be considered uncondemned regardless of his conduct after a sustained sentence of imprisonment or an outdated or a pardonary sentence, especially if we know that 70% of the perpetrators, if not more, are returned to these crimes. If it has not committed a crime at a time or within a certain period of time since the sentence of imprisonment, it is no guarantee that it will not be carried out later. So what do we get? Then he will be judged and that act for which he had been convicted before, and his punishment erased, will not be treated as a daunting circumstance. There's exactly the essence of our amendment, and that's why we've predicted something like this, and we think there's a basis for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14819	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14820	In the preface of the Criminal Code by Prof. Zoran Stojanovic, it was pointed out – that means that the principle of justice and proportionality, which today is experiencing its full reaffirmation in criminal law, was also one of the criteria for legislators when prescribing penalties for certain crimes. Later, in his preface, I refer to the Institute as a legal consequence of the conviction, that the Institute is detained, but that there is no possibility of adapting to a specific case and points out that it can guide and violate the principles of justice and proportionality. Professor Stojanovic, according to the country's best minister, in my opinion one of the best in the country, notes in any case that the legal consequences of the conviction should allow certain individualisation of the legal consequences of the conviction. Furthermore, in the criminal code which defines the legal consequences of the conviction, it is said that the legal consequences of the conviction cannot occur when a criminal offence has been given a fine, a suspended sentence, unless called off, a court notice or a perpetrator is released from punishment. It is also defined that the legal consequences of convictions in the Criminal Code, which are contained in the prohibition of the acquisition of certain rights, can be prescribed for a maximum period of 10 years. This is what the General Criminal Code tells us, with the provision of Article 97 of the Rehabilitation which removes the convictions and ceases all its legal consequences and the convicted is considered unconvicted. The fact is that in these areas that have been committed to minors or even criminal acts that have been committed against semi-freedom, which is my view that it should be against everyone, especially sensitive persons, that the legal consequences of the conviction last longer than prescribed by the Criminal Code and twice as long as is foreseen, means, for the longest period of up to 20 years. I have to ask the question again – should it be explicitly stated that all legal consequences of condemnation including banning the establishment of a working relationship, i.e. making calls or occupations relating to working with minors must last at least 20 years? I mentioned the situation that, for example, a 19-year-old student, at the start of a study where he was determined to deal with medicine, or he enrolled in the Faculty of Physical Education, where he would work with children or minors either at school, either as a coach, accidentally or deliberately touch where he didn't need a 17-year-old, for example, maybe his girlfriend, but against her will. According to the report, a crime like a house. Unauthorized sex acts, present intent to satisfy sexual lust, criminal acts, fines imposed, but that boy or girl, at the age of 20, necessarily has to have a ban on establishing a working relationship, i.e. making calls or occupations relating to working with minors. I don't think that's the essence of this, and that's why I repeat, for those forms of crime where it's being threatened, among other things and fines, it shouldn't be explicit that the legal consequence of the conviction is 20 years, it's illogical. Secondly, such a case allows possible abuses, since the act never goes out of date, the execution of a criminal sanction never goes out of date, the one who's been abused if he takes pictures of this young man or girl on the threshold of adulthood, who has committed such an act, can even blackmail him in the next 10, 20 years, but 50 years, and when he says, "Here, work." Therefore, I find it useful to adopt the amendment and enable and oblige the judicial authorities to control from case to case and see if it takes 20, whether it takes this much or so. If my amendment to Article 3 is accepted, we also resolve it because such an act for which a fine is threatened is subject to the Criminal Code, i.e. the legal consequences of the conviction will be up to 10 years. In each case, it will be measured, even if it takes 10 years for someone not to be employed in a particular place, but do not explicitly be 20 years old and for such acts that as soon as the penalty is threatened are such social dangers, and the National Assembly would not pass such a law that such a social danger is such. That's why I suggest you adopt my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14821	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Đuric, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14822	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed with our amendment that the duration of the legal consequences of the conviction be 40 years instead of 20 years, as it is written in the bill. We felt it took 40 years to ban the acquisition of public functions, to prohibit the establishment of a working relationship, i.e. making calls or occupations relating to working with minors. We thought it would be a good message not to leave both a theoretical possibility and a chance for a person who got out of serving a prison sentence after 20 years to literally rehabilitate. We've predicted 40 years as a real flow of time after which we can't really expect anyone to be involved in the execution of this kind of crime that involves endangering the half-life of minors. We believe that 20 years is too short, that it is little in one human century and that 40 years is a ban and the duration of these legal consequences of the conviction, which are provided for in Article 6. A bill of law, a really appropriate time frame. I don't see why this amendment hasn't been adopted. I don't speak from the position of someone who deals with politics, but I speak from the position of the mother and the position of a citizen of this country who and how he sees and hears what happens every day and to what extent minors are threatened. Almost daily, we witness very ugly events in terms of endangering safety as well as the half-life freedoms of minors. Therefore, if we already have the opportunity and the chance to pass a good law, why not write that law in such a way that it really serves its purpose, and I think we have one common goal and it is indisputable between us MPs, and that is what we showed when we talked about obsolescence. I don't see why we shouldn't improve the quality of the law in this part. It's not about adopting our amendment. Let it be a proposal from the Justice and Administration Committee. We don't have a problem with that, but we need to change this attitude a little, this institute that's part of Article 6. Proposal for a law as regards a period within which legal consequences cease.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14823	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14824	Thank you, Chairman. As pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Justice in terms of the basis of amendments on facts, and in the positive legislation, I will now point out and here I will fully agree with my colleague, Mikovic, who insisted on individualisation. Why individualization? Because in this part of the law we have the application of different legal situations, different qualifications of criminal acts, different ways of committing criminal acts, different forms of degree of social danger. If all these differences are present, and they are, then in no case can we determine the fixed duration. It must have a certain amplitude, it must have a certain applicability in relation to all of these differences that I have pointed out, that is, to what individualization implies. Without that, the application of this provision will in some ways remain lifeless. For this reason, I have tried to point out, in view of all the circumstances that I have now highlighted, the degree of social danger, the way in which the offense is carried out, especially the difficult forms, especially the difficult qualifications, etc., that it can be the longest for 20 years, and not fixate on a certain period of time. This is an explanation given on the Committee on Justice and that is an explanation that I consider acceptable, so I would like to ask the Proposer to reconsider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14825	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanovic and Jelena Travar Miljevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14826	I thank you, Madam Chairman. counterpart Jelena Travar Miljevic and I, on behalf of the URS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment that is similar or possibly even identical to the amendment of counterpart Judita Popovic, which says that we have been thinking the same way. We also think that the consequences of this law should apply for 40 years. Why? We all talked a lot in the principle debate about people who tend to commit these crimes being largely reciprocated. Thus, it is highly likely that someone who has already been convicted of criminal acts will be at risk of endangering the freedom of minors to do so over a period of time. That's why we think these special measures should last for life. I must say that when I commented with the citizens that I had submitted the amendment for 40 years, they asked me – why, why not for life? It's just, for 40 years, it's something that's in spirit with our legal system, given that we don't have life sentences. We, given this, have limited ourselves to 40 years, but we believe that in practice this would mean practically life. Why? Because we don't want anyone convicted at 20 or 22, 23, after they've been punished, when they're 20 in their late 40s or early 50s to be able to work with children or in any way be close to children, to give him the opportunity to repeat the crime. It's perfectly acceptable for us to be 40 years old and we believe there's a lot of justification for that. We believe it was the intensity of this law. I can agree with colleagues who think that in some way we should separate those crimes that are the most difficult from those crimes that are easier in this area. In principle, I also talked about how many countries also step up and the duration of these measures, such as the degree and the penalty, depending on the severity of the crime. So it's possible that the measurements last 10 years for easier crimes, 20 for weight, 40 for the hardest, etc. I personally think it was the best solution for this law. Since the law did not provide for such an option, we did not propose it further, given that we should not conduct excessive procedures in amending the law, but we remain in the position to prescribe the monitoring of perpetrators of such criminal acts, or special monitoring measures, over 40 years. I remind my esteemed colleagues and all of us that every four years the court makes a decision on whether the measures will continue or will not continue. Given the way our courts judge when it comes to penalties for rape, and the penalties for rape of minors, I also think that in some public debate as a society, we all agreed that these penalties are unacceptablely small when it comes to court practice, that they last a few years. The father of the little girl Mary himself spoke of how small these punishments are and how condemned he could be to the perpetrator of this disgusting act on Mary. I ask you that we have all this in mind and that, given all this in full application, we put this law into practice, by making it impossible for those who commit such crimes to ever be able to repeat them again in their lives. Don't tell me someone's gonna get better when they're 40 or 50, they won't. If he's willing to commit the crime by 30, he'll probably be ready to commit the crime with 50. Why would we give him a chance to do something like that? Why, as a society, take the responsibility to repeat this crime by working as a guardian at a nursing home or by working as a teacher at a school? I ask you to keep all of this in mind and to prescribe for 40 years, and then to give the courts a chance to maybe, given some other circumstances, every four years question this sentence. But for 40 years, it's a strong message to the courts that then they don't lightly release the perpetrators of these criminal acts of these measures of surveillance that will make it impossible for them to commit another crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14827	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we see that this matter has caused a wide controversy of MPs. One predicts that the duration of the legal consequences should last much shorter than what is provided for by the bill, and some believe that they should last longer. We have an amendment that really tightens the text of the law and predicts that the legal consequences of the conviction should last permanently. I also have to explain to the public what this is all about. This is only about two legal consequences – banning the acquisition of public office and banning labour relations in institutions where working with minors is understood. So it's just two legal consequences. The question arises whether the person who committed the crime of rape or the crime of promise over a minor is worthy of public office? In our opinion – of course not. On the other hand, if this person once committed a crime against semi-freedom against minors, what is the guarantee that this person will not commit a crime again if we know that the percentage of returnees is extremely high? By allowing him to work with minors, after even a certain time of 20 years, we increase the risk of repeating such a crime. And that's exactly what we're talking about today. There's something else I need to point out. We are among the first to ratify the Lanzarot Convention, and if we want those legal standards contained in it to consistently translate into legal provisions, then I must point to another obligation. The convention says professionals in all sectors that work with children must not be convicted persons. And in this direction, our amendment is just predicting that the permanent consequence of starting a working relationship with underage children or institutions where working with underage children is meant to last permanently, because in this way we absolutely respect the international standards provided for in the Lanzarot Convention that we have ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14829	Thank you. National MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14830	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, it was really interesting to listen to this discussion about the duration of the legal consequences of the conviction. I would just point out the fact that we have in the National Assembly today, that we are still discussing a special law that goes beyond the general criminal law. This fact is very important when discussing this case as well as the legal consequences of the conviction. If we are already discussing that there is a special law, this means that there were special circumstances that led to the adoption of this law, and that means that the state should react in a special way to the degree of social danger that exists by carrying out this crime. So, considering how to address the issue of legal consequences under the general legislation could be the subject of this matter being found under the general criminal law. That is why today we are discussing an extended or, as we suggest, the lasting duration of the legal consequences of the conviction. What's important is how the state should react to such a high degree of social danger and what this standard can mean at the very end of the line. If we want maximum protection of minors, and in this case, when the legal consequences of condemnation and public morality are seen, the norm must be so well-conceived that it has a preventive fact. Norma must also have a preventive fact. We think that the strongest preventive fact, the consensual degree of the social danger of a crime, is precisely the lasting duration of the conviction, because we protect public morality by never being able to gain public office, never, unlike colleagues who think they can sometimes, we feel that they can never, as such a person can never get a chance to work with minors. My colleague Milica Radovic said a lot about it. I would like to say for myself that if you look at all the other measures proposed by this law, this measure is consistent with those measures. There is no mitigation of penalties, so no restrictions, no parole, no obsolescence, no deadlines, so let's introduce another measure where there are no restrictions and deadlines, which is the permanent duration of legal consequences, or sustainability to this measure. So we're going to get one round system, I have to say, more stringent measures, to which the state should react when it comes to a protection facility. No parole, no parole, no obsolescence, no period for the duration of the legal consequences of the conviction. I remind you once again, we are doing this and we are proposing this, and all these other measures that go beyond the general legislation, because it is a special law and because we believe that such persons cannot acquire public functions and can never come to the opportunity to establish a working relationship to work with minors. I think that's how we're going to protect both underage faces and public morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14831	National MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14832	Ladies and gentlemen, the sensitivity of the subject we have before us in the discussion of details is just as susceptible to criminal law theory as to our values in society. When we talk about someone being found, legally convicted of one of the worst crimes, promises, abuse, rape of a minor, or a child, then, of course, in an argument to make amendments or even to the law, we get mixed up with those two things, what the legal theory says, and what we say is that the number of perpetrators of these acts is reduced to minimal in some society. My contribution is precisely to, in the dilemma between how to look at the provisions of this law through a theory of criminal law, whether we need a special law, whether we should prevent judicial practice from being misused after a legal conviction or not, whether we should set a deadline or not, to be inclined to serve this law as a means of maximum prevention. When we already have a victim in front of us and we have an perpetrator who is legally convicted, then the dilemma is how long he won't be able to work with children or perform a public function, only in the domain of criminal law theory. I don't believe it's in the domain of value that we should be attached to this society. We are a society that holds many topics as taboo, holds the topic of incest, holds the subject of child abuse within a rope or a wider family, holds general information about how many total cases may be, because we do not have certain statistics, when adults abuse, sexually or in any other way, children who are related to them or not. We are a society that is prone to say – this is not happening with us. The passing of this law, initiated by one family tragedy, should allow us to actually reduce the number of cases when an adult abuses a minor, or child. At the same time, it should allow us space for dialogue, how often and how often it happens in our society. The ban on no parole, the ban on no obsolescence, the ban on being armed or permanent, as an amendment from the DSS, dealing with public function or working with children, should be a clear message and often repeated in the media by all those who have or do not know that they have this tendency to commit a crime against a minor or a child. I don't know if this message will reach out to them, because I can't imagine what's in my head and what's in my emotions and in the minds of someone who makes a promise or sexual coercion, a crime against a minor child, but we don't have anything else to do with this provision and this special law, we warn that we're a society, or that we want to become a society, where the abuse of any kind of minor or child will be sanctioned so that the perpetrator, or permanently, will be marked by that, so that others can take their children away from him. I fully understand colleagues who, even in this case, look more at the theory of criminal law and look at what can happen in every trial and everywhere, defends a man, and not defends the crime, but I think this law is an opportunity to show in human deviance, about what can happen, if we really stand firm behind the theory of criminal law, other children, if we have already investigated and in the judicial process, rightfully condemned the person who committed such a terrible crime. What only brings me a dilemma is judicial error. I know there is no way that we, in the law of this kind, can secure ourselves from judicial mistakes, but just as I believe it is our duty for all of us to raise the subject of child abuse in our immediate environment, regardless of the type of abuse, so I think that we share the subject that, as the National Assembly but together with the Ministry, we discuss both what is happening and how can judicial mistakes happen. It is the only dilemma that I have with this bill, with the request and application, once again, for the Government's representative to carefully consider amendments and that all those amendments, whether they bear the signature of the opposition or the ruling party, are indeed taken into account, because I think there is a common will here to break up with a terrible topic that we have never talked about enough and to prevent, as a strong prevention, the number of such tragedies and accidents as little as possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14833	People's MP, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14834	Just a few words per article. Generally, this crime or crimes under this law cannot be done by chance. It's just, if someone says someone accidentally patted someone on the bottom of their back, it's just not a crime. The guilt exists if the perpetrator, at a time when the crime was committed, was reasonable, if he had the will to do so and should not be relativated by these crimes, through the fact that someone was going to be trampled on the bottom of his back. It's just, there's a intention to do it. That's one thing. The other thing, I don't see that there's a problem, and one of us here should have a problem with carrying out a permanent ban on doing public functions to whoever did one of these crimes and being permanently banned, by someone who raped children, from being permanently banned from working with children. I don't know what's controversial about it, but it's supposed to be limited here now, tampered with, if it's five, 10, 15, 20 years. This means that the very nature of this law is such that it is special, that solutions and penalties are more severe than in the existing Criminal Code, or the Code of Criminal Procedure, and we have to stick to it here. Simply, our intention must be clear, unequivocal, direct and preventative to all potential returnees, the perpetrators of these crimes, or those who in their heads have some intention, desire, or think about doing this crime. So, the permanent ban we're talking about here refers to public functions and calls for minors. There is no human right here, nor any other right of the defendant or convicted, to commit this crime. So, we don't need to relativize and banish this law ourselves, because it's very clear when a crime is committed, that there must be will and intent to commit such a crime and that the taping on the bottom of the back should not be relativated - rape, the promise of a minor, the powerless or pregnant woman, but it should be said very directly that there is no obsolescence, that there is no punishment and that there is no permanent ban on doing these two functions, and that is the public function and dealing with minors.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14835	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14836	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by supporting the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group, I absolutely believe that, no matter how special this law is, how special the law is in relation to the whole legislative practice, I think that this argument made by colleagues before me, and above all by colleagues in the DSS, explaining their amendment, is quite enough to convince Mr. Minister that this amendment is now accepted at the session. Why? Because right now Article 6 speaks of two legal consequences that arise from this article, and you have never had on the side of such an amendment the whole public of Serbia more complicated than at this time. Indeed, we all feel and sincerely hope that this law, which is to be acted and preventive, will be more rare than any other used in the practice of Serbian legislation, we all sincerely want to do so. That's exactly why a measure like this should be taken. Someone who's done this kind of work certainly won't be able to fix themselves and won't change their attitude. It's deviant behavior. Psychologists know what I'm talking about. So, simple society must warn anyone who does such a work, and much will be said about it, or who is going to do such a work, because above all there must be will and intent, that this work will permanently mark and exclude it, in one way, take it to the edge of life. Thus, the work should be so qualified and so punished that many never even regain consciousness to do so. It is here that we are talking about defending a man in court, not an act. It's the man who's the perpetrator of the crime, and we're talking here about people who are doing one kind of work, that is, misdemeanors, that are the most serious crimes, that our society as a whole, that our mentality structure can't accept and that it wants to condemn. So it is never clearer behind a legal project that the entire public of Serbia was standing in the desire to bring it in the best way. I just think this amendment should be accepted. I don't think there's ever been any greater will in the O.R. to accept one such amendment from all MPs. That's why I'd like to appeal to Mr. Secretary to join us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14837	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14838	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 6 are the legal consequences of the conviction, and in attitude 4, Mr. Petkovic and I intervened. Paragraph 4 reads: "The rightful verdict of the position 2) of this member is mandatory to be delivered also to the employer of the convicted person". We deleted this: "I" and added: "as well as the competent Ministry of Social Policy, which has an obligation to immediately enter this data into a single database available to social labour centres". What exactly did we want with this amendment? It is clear to us that the Department of Criminal Penalty is keeping a special register and a special record of persons convicted of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors. But it is clear to us that this law can really be implemented in full capacity, as you lawyers say, only if all the institutions in society are networked. What somehow seems to me to be relativating, and somehow it seems to me to be putting into another plan, is how important social work centres are in prevention, first of all. If we hadn't forgotten the preventive work of the social work center, we'd have 30 women and mothers more today, because over the past two years, so many women have been killed because we've forgotten how important social work centres are to us here. Why is it important for us to include the social work centres through the ministry, not to go too far now, in this? Because there are a lot of perpetrators of these crimes right now among those who are users of social work centres and social workers. I'd like you to think about this. It seems to me that only if society performs fully together, all institutions do their jobs and all institutions play their part in implementing this law, it will also have full application. In case we forget one link, and it seems to me that social work centres are a very important link, a very important link, although sometimes forgotten, we will not have complete insight into what we can do as a society and protect children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14839	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear People’s MPs, according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Stefana Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14841	I thank you for understanding, and I think it is useful to accept the amendment because it is practically providing individualization, in line with everything, and the general principles of the Criminal Code. The fact is that, if my amendment to Article 3 would be accepted, which would practically ensure that special measures can be imposed on all perpetrators of semi-freedom crimes, except for the two easiest forms, it would be good because then all persons who have committed serious criminal acts against semi-freedom would be able to impose special measures, such as the obligation to report to the competent police and criminal sanctions authorities, then prohibiting the visitation of minors, kindergartens, schools and the like, mandatory visit to professional counselling centres and institutions, mandatory notification of the change of residence, residence and workplace and mandatory notification of travel abroad. I think it's a good thing that such measures are practically prescribed to all perpetrators of serious crimes against full freedoms. In this way, those who are the most endangered would be protected, and above all I mean underage faces, children, and particularly sensitive faces. For the protection of particularly sensitive persons and minors, full protection would be not only what the amendment to Article 7 was accepted but also if an amendment to Article 3 was accepted. Only then would the full protection be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14842	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14843	Thank you. Article 9 says this way, I'll read it to make it clearer for both of you and me. "Under the ban on visiting places where minors gather, the duty of perpetrators is to refrain from visiting places where minors are gathered, such as school buildings, schoolyards, kindergartens, playgrounds, playgrounds and the like." It's just, to me, while I was reading this article the 9th accent was on this: "yes face," and we know what kind of person it is, "needs to abstain." I'm not sure the way you formulated this Article 9 might have some basis in reality. This is about people who are in the highest number, say, returnees, and I've found psychological profiles here, it's about self-centered, narcissistic people with no conscience or compassion who have a disorder of sexual impulse control. Now we expect these people to refrain from approaching schoolyards, classrooms, and similar places. I think it can really be very difficult. Actually, I'm not sure it can happen at all in practice. We think that the state should be the one to take responsibility for itself and that it must take all those actions that are necessary to prevent those who commit crimes in this good 3, to carry out further crimes. How are we supposed to do now? We wrote a new member of the 9th and wrote: "To the extent of the ban on visiting places where underage persons are gathered, it is meant to make it impossible for the perpetrator of the crime in Article 3 of this law to visit places where minors such as school buildings, schoolyards, courtyards, playgrounds and the like are gathered." In your explanation, you're telling us that this is impossible because you don't know how to control it. Let me tell you an example that's very simple. Like, schools have school cops. School cops need to help make what you imagined and realized. On the other hand, they don't have all school cops. Maybe this would be one reason to help schools actually have the ability to monitor their safety, to help them provide children in those schools, especially because there was increased violence in schools, which is little, so we have information in the media that an unknown person has fallen into the school yard. You were beaten by a 17-year-old boy in Kragujevac, so before that, a 16-year-old boy. So this would increase the number of school police officers who would help this and what it would mean to schools, and also to those of us who want to help protect children from sexual abuse and commit crimes like this against half-freedom against minors. That's one way. On the other hand, it is said that a certain number of perpetrators are just misusing their profession because they can thus have physical access to the child. It seems to me again, if we left it as you have formulated this article, that nothing in particular would change, we would not have control, nor could we do anything as a society, but would leave to the conscience of people who actually have no conscience to refrain from visiting such places as the schoolyards and playgrounds. It seems to me that's the part that needs to be taken over by the state, that it's a job for the state, for the institutions of the state. I just see the possibility of a school cop finally starting to do his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14844	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14845	A similar amendment was tabled by People's MP Olgica Batic. We agree with the explanation and this amendment, that we simply must not let those people's conscience see whether or not they will visit because this is like some kind of recommendation. It's just that there's a visitation ban to be put on for the following reasons. As you know, Mr. Minister, our schoolyards are public areas. On public surfaces all people are allowed to move, including paedophiles. On the other hand, schools don't have physical and technical security. In Novi Sad, for example, 52 schools are attended by only nine school officers, which means that literally this category of people can be high schooled, and teachers, teachers, teachers, school directors, they don't have employees in school institutions, if there's any such provision as is proposed, no kind of possibility, not even to call the police, because such persons are made recommended not to visit. Such individuals should simply be banned, and this is in line with both European solutions and solutions that exist in some other countries, for example, the UK. We can call for a restriction on the availability of information on some personal data, as far as the person is concerned. But, let's just say, the UK has allowed simply every citizen, or law is so arranged that every citizen can come to the police department without any procedure to verbally ask if there are registered paedophiles in the neighborhood and immediately get all the information he needs to protect his family. Since the school courtyards are public property, public areas, since the school courtyards are not locked at night, since there is no physical and technical protection, if there remains such a provision of law, there is no legal ban, but only a recommendation not to visit schools. With such a solution, we will not achieve the effects that are expected and therefore I recommend this amendment and the amendment of Ms. Olga Batic, who is in the same spirit to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14846	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Please sign in. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14847	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, above all to express my satisfaction with the adoption of this amendment by my colleague Stefana Miladanovic, because this amendment really contributes to the more precise text of the member to which the amendment applies. In view of the currentity of this amendment and the fact that I was not present in the O.R. when the amendment under discussion was also put on the agenda and at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, it is an amendment to Article 6. I'd just like to draw attention to the promoter regardless of the possible inaccuracy to consider a situation in which there is a so-called. a risky circumstance in which all those who represent potential victims of the crimes we are discussing could be found. What's this about? On the Justice Committee, I pointed out some facts that I don't think you should ignore. The potential perpetrators of these disgusting crimes can also be those who carry out certain activities that do not involve the establishment of a working relationship, which do not involve working legal status or employment. In the principle debate, I also pointed out that it could be those who perform even educational activities, various sports coaches, fitness trainers, and even teachers who prepare students or students to pass graduates, prepare exams and so on. Is that how this category where the perpetrators of crime can potentially be found can actually carry out such activities? In my deep conviction, no. I believe that if not with this law, then the Proposer can, in the provisions of existing or positive criminal law, recognise the possibility of reacting in this way and pre-warning or preventive action, prevent the execution of criminal acts. I would point out once again the facts that are daily present, and they are not just about what we have already defined as this legislation through the ban on visiting places where children are gathered, etc. Where most children don't get together, there are opportunities like this that I've just pointed out. So, once again, I would ask that these circumstances be particularly appreciated, if not through amendments to the law we are discussing today, then certainly within the framework of the Criminal Code, the positive rules in the area of criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14848	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very important amendment to the amendment that my parliamentary group has submitted to the same member of the law. Namely, it foresees who oversees a special ban on visiting places where underage children are gathered. If he wasn't accepted, I don't think any of us would be satisfied with the effect that such a provision of the law would produce. What actually implies is the ban on visiting places where minors are gathered, and as such it is only a declarative restriction on the movement of freedom of these persons, but nowhere is it predicted who is authorized to exercise control over such a single measure. We have predicted that surveillance of this measure is carried out by members of OUP and especially by school police officers. We think it is very important that this provision is in the text of the law, because it cannot be expected from the perpetrators themselves of these crimes that he refrains from visiting these crimes. It can't be expected because he's simply not able to do it. If he was able, he probably wouldn't go to places like that. So we have to take certain prevention measures to prevent what happens later. It must be known who is overseeing this special ban on visiting places where underage children are gathered. I don't think we can carry out this measure successfully, it can't depend on the will of the perpetrator himself, but the state has to take over the control role and the state has to be the one to determine who's doing the surveillance. In the principle debate, I said there were two options. It's one thing to be representatives of the M.O.P. and school cops. The other day we had so much to say about the monstrous cases of peer violence, it seems to me in Kragujevac, where we could hear that one school cop was in charge of four schools, which is totally unacceptable. So this is how we have to deal with the consequences not happening. We must provide for simple protection from what will come later, and that is why we have submitted this amendment. I say, in the principle debate, one possibility was that supervision of the implementation of this measure was carried out by the members of the MUP, and the other measure, of course only in the principle debate, was the bracelets for electronic surveillance. I know that where and where better, a more efficient solution would be, given that we wouldn't have to hire the members of the MUP to monitor these places in this member of the law for 24 hours. In any case, it would require certain financial resources. With that in mind, given the insight in which the state is in matters of finance, we have proposed this amendment only for this reason. But I think it's necessary to think about it one more time, because it seems to me, if it wasn't accepted, that such a provision of the law would only have a declarative fact that would only apply to the declarative restriction of the movement of the perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14850	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14851	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems to me, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may seem to me that it may be time to really consider accepting this amendment because it is crucial from the point of view of anyone who would like to transfer all activities from law enforcement to the state, not to leave it on the conscience of those perpetrators. We have to say that many countries have the same problems and we have to look at the solutions in those other countries because maybe it's not the time for us to invent hot water ourselves because it already exists. You said in your explanation that you didn't see how this could be done. We have suggested this attitude 2 that we have added one of the ways in which you could measure the ban on visiting places where minors gather. It's very important to control who's gathering here because when we talked to a lot of people, when I talked to some people in Valjevo who work in schools, they told me that they could specify exactly a number of people, even names and where they came from, who always gather around schoolyards, playgrounds, sports courts and other things. A school cop who's one in many schools has no right to approach them in any way to control their presence here. This might be a good way. Once again, I have to repeat what we said as a parliamentary group in principle, maybe it's one way to do prevention and it's to think about chemical castration because it is one of the measures in some other countries. It might seem too serious. I don't think it seems too serious. I think it seems responsible. Some countries seek consent to something like this for the perpetrator of crimes. Some volunteer to submit. I looked at one of those cases in the paper today, almost no day to not show up. The man said - I'm sick and I'm asking for help. I think the state can provide him with this help and in this way maybe the state would meet these people who are asking the state for help so they wouldn't commit such crimes. Some countries do not require consent, and chemical castration is mandatory for them. The moment is for us as a society to define what we're going to do to protect our children from such acts and to end up raising the standards that those of us are looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14852	National MP Nejko Jovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title be added above members and Article 9a be added after article 9. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14853	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, given that I have already given an opening statement in relation to Article 6 relating to the duration of the special measures, I will not particularly explain and will not reiterate the circumstances that I have just pointed out. I leave it to the promoter that I have repeatedly referred to these circumstances when adopting or future laws in the area of criminal law, or possibly to consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14854	The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14855	I won't explain my amendment. I want to point out one fact, and you should warn me if I abuse this time, which is that I hope, as in previous meetings, that, finally, the Committee on Justice and the applicants of the amendment will call for their session, which they have never done in this session, especially when it comes to me. If they love me so much, I ask them to love me less and to invite me in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14856	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment we submitted to this bill. We've asked that the competent organization unit of the police is required to provide a mandatory report to the foreign authorities on the criminal record of the person who committed the crime against half-freedom. We believe that such a duty of the state must exist. The government did not accept the amendment because it said it had already been regulated by another member of this bill. We simply do not think that this is a good enough explanation for why we insist on the obligation to submit an ISK report, not on the possibility of delivery, because the country in which the person travels must be informed about what crime the person has committed, which is the punishment to which the person has been convicted because it is a huge percentage of returnees in these crimes, those persons represent potentially dangerous categories of persons and there should be one alert around the public and state authorities over them and their behaviour. That is the essence of this amendment where it insists on the obligation to submit an ISK report. This is the last amendment we submitted to this set of laws. What I'm saying is that this law is, in any case, something that our society needs. We welcome and support this bill. It is the first step in protecting children against sexual abuse and with the development of certain amendments that we have today had the opportunity to discuss I think it will be a good foundation and a legal defense to repeat these crimes. The congregation took its first step when it came to this attempt. In all other state bodies, I mean the judiciary, the MUP, that all together, the Assembly that has a supervisory role in the implementation of this law, we need to make sure that this law is absolutely and maximumly applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14858	People's MP, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14859	Of course, we remain in that it is necessary for the competent organisational unit, or the police, to be obliged to submit a report to the state in which the person is going to report from the criminal record. We've had cases in the former Yugoslavia, I think it's called Paravinja, who raped in one country, so he went to another state, so there's no way to find the body of a girl who was raped. There are persons especially in the former Yugoslavia and in the surrounding countries who can commit more crimes of rape without being registered in Serbia, registered in Croatia or Bosnia or in another country. Our intention was to prevent in these other countries too, so I hope that in our country, too, their records will be available to our authorities when these persons arrive in our country and to prevent the possibility of repeating crimes in other countries in the environment. I do not see that there is a problem in this way to specify the authority of the police and by the reasons that we have received from the ministry is unnecessary repetition. On the contrary, I think that this is the direct authority of the police and the state, which must be engaged and the state must take responsibility for the protection of these persons as well as in the case of a school officer, as in this case, the state must have a much stronger and more important role and be engaged, not only through the adoption of this law, which the ministry has done, proposed, which we all will support, but also the state itself must take responsibility and take seriously the need for this law and for the provisions of this law to be implemented in action and that in the coming years the number of these crimes is reduced and that, of course, we will never be in a situation to say that they are not there, but to reduce and that our children, I say now as a parent, are less exposed to be victims of any of the people who are incriminated by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14860	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14861	I would here, since the amendment is present, just ask the question of whether it is data of importance for the physical recognition of the convicted and his photographs, or about data of importance for physical recognition, means, linguistically, just because it is correct, that the text of the law would not come out, and that is why I call you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14862	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14863	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic, for calling, for the amendment that was adopted in that text, you had an explanation, and it's no grammatical error, so it's not "from," it's "about importance". That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14864	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14865	By way of derogation from the amendment, I have proposed that the proposed Article 14 be amended. The draft law, that the special record provided for in Article 13 of this Act is not governed by the Criminal Sanctions Administration, but by the MUP. In this regard, to amend the provisions and to have the Minister in charge of Home Affairs be competent to regulate the way in which special records are kept closer. For what reason? The fact that we're going to have obviously a lot of pressure on the Department of Criminal Sanctions, that they're delivering data on special records. If an unchanged member is 15. The bill implies that anyone who employs a person who can work with minors, an educational worker, who hires a trader, who can sell something to a minor in stores, you have a huge number of individual cases where the employer will be obliged to ask for information on whether the person to start a working relationship, who performs minors' affairs, is listed in a separate record. This will be about hundreds of thousands of demands that the Administration will have to respond to in some time. True, it is not foreseen within what time period, Zlata Djeric's proposal to set a deadline, that it be timely, it may take a while, but it will stand before the Criminal Sanctions Administration to respond to it at some point. Exactly, in that sense, if the M.O.P. already has this criminal record, I think that right now the M.O.P. has the resources to keep a special record, especially what the DNA data and all that is, I think it's more necessary for the M.O.P. One more thing, the Department of Criminal Penalty will be obliged to keep a special record for those who are fined, not only those who have been sentenced to prison or unconditional imprisonment, everyone who has been convicted, and in that sense, it is my proposal to be a MUP. If the Department of Justice thinks he can, along with the Department of Criminal Sanctions, do it, it's fine, but I'm afraid after a certain period, we'll check whether or not it's up to date.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14866	The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted together to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14867	Dear Ministers and representatives of the Ministry, in this part of Article 15, we have submitted an amendment, not because it is a member of the 15th dispute, it is about the availability of data from a special record, but only for the sake of precision in the work relating to persons to be appointed or appointed to office or already appointed and set up before the application of this law. We have put up with this because Article 6 clearly states that the consequences are also legally related to the termination of public office, as well as to the ban on the acquisition of public functions. What I would like to draw attention to in response to the ministry is suspected of part of the retroactivity of our proposed amendment. It can't be retroactive, functions are ongoing, and some functions take a long time, four, five, eight years, and according to all the deadlines that have been given and counting on the day to vote soon, the law will be, by half of April, effective, within 90 days, the records will be established, and the function will last, and someone can take office yesterday, if it happens, because such a response comes to the fact that persons whose functions are under way are amnesty from the application of this law, if we look only at the answer to our amendment, and I don't think it was the intensity of the promoter. Article 15 itself is very precise in that part when it comes to persons working with minors, and it is not clearly defined in relation to obtaining specific data, i.e. from a special record when referring to persons performing public functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14868	The word has a folk MP, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to join my colleague Vlahovic in an explanation and just to add that Article 15 in Section 3 is specified that this data is required when a person is employed, a working relationship in an institution, in a state body, with entrepreneurs working with underage children. However, in paragraph 2 it is very undefined for whom those records are sought, and nowhere stands the decident for appointed and appointed persons, for officials, for whom, on the basis of Article 6 of the conviction for criminal offences referred to in Article 3, legal consequences arise, including the termination of public office. In our thinking, we were wondering what about the principals of kindergartens, school directors and other appointed persons, and we came to the conclusion that it is best to install it in paragraph 2 of this article, to specify that the performer of these functions, at the time of entry into office or after the entry into force of the law, if it is already in office, is required data from this record. Therefore, I disagree with the argument that this attitude is precise enough and that it is no longer necessary to specify. We believe that it is and, as the colleague has already explained, we do not agree with the conclusion that this would lead to retroactive application, because when the records are established, they will not be re-entered back into it by who has been punished, but only from the moment of the establishment of the records. So it can't be retroactively applied to someone who's been punished before the records are established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14870	Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Title above Article 17 and Article 17. The title above Article 17 and Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14871	I have to point out that in law enforcement of criminal liability, no criminal liability has been prescribed for anyone who does not comply with his obligation, and works, for example, at the Department of Criminal Sanctions or works at the MUP, if you accept my amendment to run the MUP. The fact that it's a criminal liability for all those who don't ask for the information is such that it's very strictly imposed criminal penalties, and it's close to maximum. The fact is that the state, for example, if its responsible person does not act within a certain time limit, cannot pay a criminal sentence as a legal person, but it can be any other legal person, I speak in criminal responsibility. On the other hand, the question arises whether a criminal liability, if a judge or one acting in a state authority, means a competent official in a court, if he has an obligation to provide data to the Criminal Sanctions Administration within three days, does not do so on the third day but does so on the fourth day, means paying the equivalent of nearly 1000 to 1500 euros under mandatory, for the offence committed. The fact is that, on the one hand, we have in Article 15 that everyone can, or should request information from the Administration, and we do not have an obligation to provide an answer to the Management within a specified time limit. For this reason, just as regards the application of this law itself, I believe it would be necessary to maintain maximum criminal penalties, as the upper frame of criminal punishment for the case of the arrogant and irresponsible conduct of anyone who commits an offence. I believe that especially in a situation of ignorance of certain facts, only criminal punishment should be moved to the amount provided for by the Law of Infringement, precisely in order to individualise the criminal liability of each perpetrator of the offence. Otherwise, we have a duty to, for example, those who are not well informed, for example, a married couple or to make a legal person in a small place, the question is how informed they are and who want to hire their daughter in their legal face, who they know is not a criminal match. She wasn't criminally responsible for these crimes, but she wasn't guilty at all. However, they did not know that data from a special record should be obtained. In that case, that legal person must pay a minimum of 500,000 dinars for a criminal sentence, and the responsible person must pay another 100,000. So 600,000 dinars must be paid by those who have maybe a small firm that they want to hire a family member or anyone. That is why I point out, even if these amendments that correct or extend the diapazon of possible criminal penalties are not accepted, I believe that it is the obligation of all of us, especially the Ministry of Justice, to inform all citizens in Serbia and all employers in Serbia that they are immediately obliged to request information from the Department of Criminal Sanctions from a special record for all employees who come in contact with minors. There's no one in that special record right now, but the deadline starts when the law comes into force, which is why I'm telling you about the practical application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14872	Thank you. National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Đuric, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14873	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law has arrived in the assembly procedure on February 12th. It's April 4th. By the time he's in effect, he'll be somewhere in April. So, two months from the beginning, how the law got to the Assembly to its application. So it's 60 days. You, Mr. Minister, in the bill of law, are asking this member for a 90-day period in order to regulate the regulation for the keeping of special records provided for in Article 14 of this Bill. It is a special record defined by Article 13 of this Bill, the name and the name of the convicted, the JMBG convicted, the address of the residence, employment data, personal data, etc. You're looking for a full 90 days to do something you should've already done, and you had time. We have suggested, LDP MPs, that you shorten that time for 30 days. It's really 30 days enough for you to sublegalize something you've committed to this article on the 14th. You are really overly observant to yourself and overly comfortable, given the need to pass this law. I think you've had the opportunity in parliament to see what it looks like when MPs, almost unanimously confirm that they are for the application of this law, that they are for the adoption of this law. Everyone agreed on how long it takes to enter that institute of non-depreciation. So we all agreed that there is no big discussion about whether this law is necessary or not. We showed good will, we showed co-operation, and now you're just looking for 90 days. It's too long a time, Mr. Minister, it's simply inadmissible for a long time. Unfortunately, we witness every day that these crimes against half-freedom against minors are happening on a continuous basis. Almost every day and we have a story about it. Here's a chance to react as soon as possible. Here's a chance to apply some good solutions to this bill as soon as possible. I think when you talk about bringing in some sublegal acts, you need to bear in mind that these sublegal acts have meaning in that sense to enforce a good law. Therefore, if we agree that we have no greater objection to this law and you should show some of your complicity in that sense that you will speed up some of the work you need to do so that this law can be applied at all. It actually shows whether there is some kind of synergy between the legislative authority and the executive authority. So it is not enough just for the legislative authority to show its maturity and its willingness to make some good decisions. It is necessary that the executive authority also demonstrates. Unfortunately, in the past eight months, since you've been the minister of justice, we haven't noticed such a kind of willingness to co-operate with the legislative authority, and you haven't shown any willingness to change something more important in that judiciary, and you're headed by the Department of Justice and the State Administration. You're just kind of putting aside and putting into the background and all those remarks that come from the European Commission, from the OSCE, from the Venice Commission, and the objections are serious and it's about you being ready to make some technical changes, and you're having a hard time trying to dare and you're having a hard time deciding to do something crucial. Here's a chance to show good faith. Let's speed up your work a little bit. So, you need to show this kind of preparedness, which we haven't quite noticed in your past behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14874	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the confiscation of property of the criminal offence. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zlata Đerić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Svetislava Bulajić, Bojan Đurić, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic, Slobodan Jeremic, Olgica Batić, Nenad Konstavić, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Srdjan Spasojević, Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Radović, Jovan Palalić, Zoran Babić, Irena Babić, Zoran Antic, Prof. Dr Marko Ajavić, Nebojša Berić, Mr Igor Bajić, Dr Branislav Blažić, Zoran Božić, Zoran Bojanić, Jovan Budimirović, Irena Vujović, prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić, Maja Gojković, Mr Milovan Drecun, Aleksandra Đurović, Milinko Zivković, Stefan Zankov, Biljana Ilic Stošić, Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić, Jadranka Joksimović, Bojan Jakovljevic, Dragomir J. Karić, Oto Kišmarton, Dr Milan Knezevic, Radmila Kostić, Miodrag Linta, Saša Maksimović, Mirjana Marjanović, Vesna Marković, Pava Markov, Jelena Mijatović, Dr Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorović, Mujo Muković, Miodrag Nikolić, Jasmina Obradović, Marija Obradović, Biljana Pantić Pijatić, Prof. Dr Milea Milat Milat Milat Milaković, Žaković, Trštović Samožović, Tstović, Tstović Ražović, Mirović, Radko Žović, Radko Radko Žović and Drović, Radko Radović, Mir, Mir Žović, Mir Žović. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 59 MPs from the SNS group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Svetislava Bulajic, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14875	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are talking about the law of confiscation of property arising from the criminal act. We have proposed our amendment to supplement the list of these crimes to which this law deprives property from a criminal offence. So, after point 9, to add one point, so that the following crimes are also considered profitable crimes, and then we have stated that this refers to undermining and enabling sexual intercourse, to mediate prostitution, to display and obtain and possess pornographic material and to exploit minors for pornography. So these are criminal acts provided for in Articles 183, 184 and 185. Criminal code. In light of why you rejected this amendment of ours, you have stated that this is not about the works being done to obtain property benefit. Mr. Minister, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that it's a hoax for prostitution, for undermining and enabling sexual intercourse, for intervening in prostitution and so on, which I've already listed here, and how profitable. It's just enough to ask all those victims of a trafficker, who were actually victims of prostitution mediation, or in the doing of that crime. It is very important that when we talk about confiscation of property resulting from a crime, we also consider this type of crime. So it's not enough that it's organized crime, kidnapping. Otherwise, organised crime and how it is involved in the subjugation and prostitution and similar crimes contained in Articles 183, 184 and 185. It is not enough for you to apply this law to a criminal offence against the property referred to in Articles 208, 208b, 214 and confiscate the property. If you have decided to reform these judicial laws, and this law that we have just discussed falls within the Corps, then you should look a little wider and keep an eye on the right intervening in prostitution and how it can bring a certain benefit to the person who is committing this crime. So I don't think there's an explanation that you gave when you refused this amendment. It would be good to think about it, a little wider to think about, and if you think there are certain obstacles to expanding this list in Article 2 of this law. Then why don't you change the Criminal Code in that sense? I think if you really think about changing something fundamentally in the Criminal Code, in the CAP, and you really seriously think that this law on taking away property is something new than the previous law, then you have really enough space to think a little bit more essentially, and in that sense you're also making a decision. Therefore, once again, I remind you that these are crimes that involve half-freedom, undermining and enabling sexual intercourse, you will allow, it is a very serious crime as well as intervening in the pursuit of prostitution, as well as showing and obtaining and possessing pornographic material. I don't know why you think it's not serious enough, that it's not profitable enough for someone who does those crimes? Let's step out of that vicious circle you put yourself in. You should think a little bit, and you really shouldn't take care of your life. It's not just about fighting organised crime or fighting corruption. What weighs this country is far more serious problems and wider than what you perceive as some seriousness and as a problem. Think about it one more time, or maybe you'll put these crimes as one of the lists in this Article 2 in some of the following changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14876	The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14877	The DS Parliamentary Group has submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence which proposed that, in Article 2(1), point (9), in addition to the criminal offences covered by the draft law, the criminal offences referred to in Article 391-391g. In addition to acts of terrorism, public motivation to carry out terrorist acts, recruiting, training and carrying out terrorist acts, the use of deadly devices, the destruction and damage of a nuclear facility, as well as the criminal act of Article 393. A terrorist association. The amendment, which has been tabled in the explanation, to fully fulfil the obligations our country has made under Security Council Resolution 1373, which, among other things, seeks to prescribe in its legislation and the mandatory confiscation of property for members of terrorist organisations and perpetrators of criminal acts of terrorism. Since our legal system does not know the confiscation of property, it is proposed that through this proposal the law take advantage of the possibility and extend the application of the law... (President: Mr. Becic, please, I don't understand what this is about? ) This is an amendment to Article 2. (President: Amendment submitted by LDP MPs Judita Popovic and Radmila Gerov? I'm reporting on an amendment submitted by the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14878	You can't, he's not on the agenda. Now it's on the agenda of this member. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Antić together submitted to the 23rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14879	Since you wouldn't let me explain the DS amendment and it was the amendment I answered but you didn't give me a word after the previous amendment... Mr. Becic, don't blame me now. It's okay. I will say that the amendment submitted by the LSV parliamentary group proposing that Article 23 after Article 2 of Article 3 which reads: "The request of Article 1 of this Article cannot cover assets acquired in the execution of a criminal offence". In the light of the amendment, it is stated that this article does not define that the case requires a public prosecutor for the temporary confiscation of assets cannot be property acquired prior to the execution of a criminal offence, or period for which the accused is charged. I do not believe that it is necessary in Article 23 to define precisely that the case is required by a public prosecutor for temporary confiscation cannot be acquired before a criminal offence, since Article 3 of this proposal defines what is considered to be the property subject of the confiscation and that the property arising from the criminal offence listed in the proposal, and the very title of the bill states that it is the property derived from the offence. It is quite logical that the one acquired before a criminal offence is not covered by these provisions, and therefore neither in this article nor in other members, it is necessary to specify this in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14880	However, to correct you, you must follow the course of the debate. You discussed a member who wasn't on the agenda. I hope we're right now. Marijan Risticevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for the amendment, unless my rights are denied. I'm in a dilemma whether to support this amendment, and I'd like that dilemma to be made clear to me by the minister of justice. The amendment reads: "The request of Article 1 cannot cover assets acquired prior to the execution of a criminal offence. "For me, the dilemma is that we still don't know what property was acquired by criminal acts and I have a big dilemma about the pursuit of such a kind of property. So if someone who has come to the property is a criminal offense, and in particular this concerns officials and the ruling elite, if they are to mortgage on such property, can such property be taken away? In practice, the following can happen – that certain banks that are easy to lend are mortgaged assets that have been acquired by criminal acts. Now, Minister, imagine the next situation. Such a kind of property, as it was acquired by a criminal act and mortgaged on it, will be subject to temporary or permanent confiscation under this law, then our banks are in danger of, for example, losing 3.5m euros that they easily gave to loans and getting a mortgage for it, and that mortgage, for example, is a property acquired during the performance of a certain public function, acquired by a criminal act. Such a mortgaged property, if there is a confiscation of that property, in which case the bank that gave the loan will rise again, as our people say. So, such an almost concrete situation we have in our society. I don't know if the promoter meant such a situation, so I'm in a great dilemma whether to support it or not. I'm glad when someone mortgages their assets and thus secures the bank, but it can happen that the property that was pawned came from committing a crime and if the bank accepts such a mortgage, what will happen? Is it possible for the Trustee to confiscate such property on a proposal from the Prosecutor, therefore, that it has it or will be given to the Bank, given that it should provide a loan which, in practice we already know, is very easy to give at 3.5 million dollars in an honorable word – I will return, believe me, I will return, and then some mortgage that can really be very difficult? So I'd like to get an answer - what happens in such conditions, if the property that is the subject of the crime is pawned, then who hangs, the bank or the body that was involved in the confiscation of the property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14882	The National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14883	Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would first of all like to thank the committees, the Minister and the Government themselves for accepting our amendment concerning the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, where we have proposed in Article 24 of Title 4 a new position which reads: "The order of the First Article shall be delivered without delay to banks and other financial organisations where funds and charters of the value of the owner are deposited." The existing position 5 becomes heading 6. I would no longer explain, if I were to take time, because this amendment was accepted and it would be an integral part of the law. What I'm saying is that PUPS will vote for this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14884	The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of 59 MPs of the SNS parliamentary group. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 59 national MPs of the SNS Group. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14885	The basic motive for this amendment is the extremely difficult economic situation in our country. We have also taken into account the average level of monthly income of the largest number of citizens, and we believe that the bill requires a limit for the possible adoption of the object of the owner of the property in this member of the law is too high. We propose this amendment to bring her down to half a million dinars. The same idea we ran in parliament when from 15,000 to 10,000 dinars was reduced to incriminate theft of small value. For the sake of the public of Serbia, I would like to say that we have submitted this amendment only for the reasons of the difficult economic situation and the low average salary of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14886	Thank you. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 54. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14887	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14888	I find the minister has accepted this amendment. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14889	The Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 55, regulates that the temporary transfer of the movable and immovable property may be made available to the Directorate in order to settle the costs of keeping and maintaining the same movable and immovable property. Teached by the experience of an earlier period and by the way in which it was held, which is immovable property, where the car is a wreck, the dwellings of the MPs in the Assembly, and not the way it should be and how, I hope, it will be after the adoption of this law, that all these assets obtained by doing serious crimes will be made available to those who need it most. I believe that this article in 55 should be deleted, because if you hold the temporarily seized property by selling the same temporarily seized property, we can come to a situation where someone is not found guilty or otherwise, it can cause great damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget, hence, to the citizens. What is our idea is that by eradicating this member, we come to the solution that the Directorate can maintain this property from its resources and wait for a strong decision on the fate of this property, given that the Directorate towards its property that has been taken away as a good host means, with special attention. So we believe that this member, which allows the sale of assets to be maintained in order to maintain that or some other property, is not a good prejudicial decision and that he opens up the possibility that the Republic of Serbia's budget will later have to compensate for those costs. We have formed the Directorate, as far as I know, with the aim of taking care of that property and that it, in the capacity of a good host, takes care of the funds that the Directorate will definitely have from the establishment itself, and already has, can maintain property to a judicial verdict without prior sale. This is our intervention with this amendment, in order to prevent damage by budget if some property is sold, and the person from whom the property has been seized is not convicted and released, because we will be in a situation where the Directorate, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, will have to compensate for the damage caused by the sale of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14890	Thank you. A group of 50 MPs from the SNS group submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14891	If it's already being entered into the process of preserving the value of the seized property and the Directorate can sell that property, so we're talking about people who haven't been convicted yet and the verdict isn't legal. If it is already in the process of selling directly, or through a specific natural or legal person, we believe that the nature of the property should require the consent of the owner of the property or its proxies, so that they do not come into a situation where the budget of the Republic of Serbia is again exposed to unnecessary costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14892	Thank you. National MPs Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 57th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14893	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, our amendment, our intervention in article 57, refers, of course, to the assumption that this entire procedure, which we initially proposed and challenged, is required to delete Article 55, but in a situation where the government does not accept this solution and to enter into the process of selling temporarily seized assets. When it comes to the sale of movable property, we propose in Article 57 of Article 2 of lightly corrupt goods, so here it is defined in Article 57 that the whole procedure is carried out by oral public competition, and that is a good solution. However, attitude 2 speaks of easily corrupt goods and animals. Word is they can be sold without oral public competition. We understand the situation as well, but we think it should still be done at market prices. If we insist on preventing any possibility of corruption in this situation that can happen, because we simply don't know what the price is, it's a direct contract. We believe that the best solution is that, in the end, all these assets are settled in the way that is necessary, and that is to achieve the full value of that property, to accept one such solution. Anything else can cause problems. I say, it can also lead to corruption in the process, and on the other hand, it will provide the very value of the property. Not to mention how this could have consequences in the situation of acquittal and that the property was sold below the market price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14894	National MP Dejan Mihajlov has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 57a be added after article 57a. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14895	Article 57a refers to easily corrupt goods and animals, which was referred to by MP Palalic before that, which can be sold without public competition and, as it stands in the Bill's proposal, at no market price, that is, at the price likely to be determined by the Directorate or by someone hired by the Directorate to do so. We put it here to define in article 57 that easily corrupt goods and animals can, with the consent of the owner, be donated for humanitarian purposes. For example, if it is a corrupt slave of goods that is rapidly broken down, take fruit and vegetables, animals, or something like that, that if only the person to whom this property has been seized agrees or suggests that this property should not be sold but be donated for humanitarian purposes. We believe that the existence of such an option can lead to certain assets and goods being bowed down for humanitarian purposes, thus avoiding the sale provided for by the previous position and by the previous member, without public competition and thus preventing damage that can occur if the goods are sold below the market price. On the other hand, this goods can also come well to some, if we have in mind the way in which all the assets should be used, both temporarily and permanently taken away, which is to make it available to those who need it most. It's just the ones who are the most endangered in our society. In this way we could donate certain goods to them, to be given humanitarianally -- whether it's the Red Cross, whether it's some schools, kindergartens, simply, to end up with those who need it most, and through this amendment, it opens up that possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14896	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would support this amendment in part if it could, but it cannot be supported in part by this amendment. I would support it to write - with the consent of the owner, the perishable goods can be donated for humanitarian purposes, but there is another word here and it is said – easily corrupt goods and animals. To me as owner, as a man holding animals, it's very difficult to give animals for humanitarian purposes. Usually these end-users can take food, they can take money, they can take clothes, they can wear shoes, but they can take animals, so I can make an example of Saric now. Like, he had a farm with a thousand globs, with a thousand cattle and so on. And you take away that property. Since it's about animals, you're giving them away for humanitarian purposes to whom and who can accept it, who can feed it, who can, say, eventually, slaughter and process it? I don't think the user of these humanitarian services can do that. That's why I can't support this amendment after all, and it only consists of slightly corrupt foods anyway to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14898	Thank you. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14899	In Article 58, this is the case of a moving asset that cannot be sold, or property that may break down and which will be destroyed. We have agreed that the decision on the gift of property shall be made by the Government on a proposal from the Director of the Directorate, in the opinion of the Minister of Health and Social Protection, then in paragraph 3 of the decision on the destruction of the assets referred to in Article 1(1) shall be made by the Director. It's illogical. The decision on the property to be donated is made by the Government, and the decision on the property to be destroyed is made by the Director himself. Our intervention refers to the Government's proposal making a decision, and it is carried out by the Directorate. Therefore, it is simply necessary to provide for one procedure that exists on another basis on which temporary assets and assets are available in general, which is that the Director proposes to the Government, the Government makes a decision, and then the Director and the Directorate implements the government's decision. I see no reason for the destruction of property to have an exception to the rules laid down by this law, which is that the decision is made by the Government. So we think it would be good in this case to prevent the possibility and the abuse and the idea itself and the thinking that the assets that are being destroyed can be diverse and that there can be various assumptions. Let's leave the procedure provided for by this law, which is that the government is making a decision like in all other cases - at the disposal of property. So this is our proposal for a decision to destroy the government on a proposal from the Director, and it is carried out by the Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14900	The 59th Amendment was submitted by a group of 59 MPs of the SNS parliamentary group. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 59 MPs of the SNS Group submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14901	Amendment to Article 82 shall be accepted. The bill, submitted by the MPs Mihajlov, Radovic and Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14902	I understand the amendment has been accepted. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organizations in Subsidized Crimes, Corruption and Other Special Hard Crimes You have received an amendment submitted by Members of the National Law: Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radović. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14903	This member of the law is talking about the criminal act of a terrorist association. We propose that only this crime be committed, as it is said about terrorist association, is complemented by the words "and the crime of stealing weapons and acts of combat", since that act incriminates the theft of weapons, ammunition, explosive combat funds that serve the needs of defence. It is clear that, in the context of terrorism, the threat of the protected good that is being protected by this part to extend this criminal act. Stealing weapons and fighting assets can be a function of terrorism. We ask through this amendment to specify the definition of this crime, to expand it, in order to enable the interpretation of this crime, and at all, this crime will be in a way that would protect the theft of weapons and combatants, which could be in the function of terrorism.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14904	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementars of the Criminal Procedure You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Milica Radović, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Miloševic, Slobodan Jeremic, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Svetislava Bulajić, Bojan Đurić, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14905	Thank you, Chairman. We have submitted one single amendment to this bill, believing that the solution provided for in the current law is much better than this solution provided for by the draft law. In fact, we felt that a defender in complex criminal cases should own a certain year of internship, as a fulfillment of the basic formal conditions for better defence. Of course, my discussion now is likely to cause the anger of many lawyers who are in the O.R., because it will interpret this government solution as the removal of discrimination that once existed between lawyers. I just don't accept it that way. I think it doesn't matter whether the defendant in criminal proceedings, and I stress, in complex criminal proceedings, represents a lawyer who, for example, passed a judicial exam yesterday, or a lawyer who already has a certain year's internship. Of course, young fellow lawyers should gain experience in less complex criminal cases, not gain their experience in complex criminal cases, where they could come and question the quality of defence they provide to the defendant. Simply, if we put this provision in the context of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which should take effect on 1 October 2013, then we will see all its shortcomings. Because we know that this extremely bad, I repeat, the Code of Criminal Procedure, along with a series of bad characteristics, also characterizes the fact that the fully eliminated principle stands out, fully played a passive role of the court and the inequality of the parties in the process, which is expressed through the inferior role of the defenders in relation to the prosecutor who has a complete state apparatus on his part. We were, of course, expecting, when it comes to this bill of law, that the proposal, or the draft which has been on the Justice Ministry site for a long time, will enter into the assembly procedure, which is where and where a better solution than that which will apply on 1 October 2013. For this reason, we expected his radical changes to the extremely bad Code of Criminal Procedure to occur, but he hopes that he did not give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14906	Thank you. The MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14907	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, members of the government and the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of MPs from the PUPS submitted this amendment. He's mostly more termological, but he's important to the regulation of a law like this. In a criminal proceedings for which a sentence of up to five years is prescribed, the word "defender" is replaced by the word "legals", can be replaced by a legal intern. This position 2 in Article 73 also has a new quality, where it is possible for a legal trainee to carry out his traineeship in quality and instruction and to be trained as a legal intern during law preparations for a lawyer. Here we insisted that the defender, who has the capacity of the court in the proceedings, and the lawyer, or legal intern, is a profession or profession, and in this it is important to regulate the whole law. We would ask the minister, and I hope that the Assembly will adopt this amendment, to search the entire law and bring this into line after this amendment has been adopted. For example, we have right here in this article - a defense attorney can only be a lawyer. In this case, the defense attorney can be both a lawyer and a lawyer intern. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14908	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14909	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to support this amendment, as I have also supported it on the Justice Committee, because it is more linguistically correct, and I would also like to say that a good solution which a number of our MPs have advocated and when the last amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure have been considered, is precisely to ensure that lawyers, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are leveled. Who is it that can value whether one lawyer has enough knowledge or has no knowledge or experience and is not just years of doing a certain job guarantee that someone knows well enough to do a job or possibly lack of years in doing a job does not mean that someone is not trained and trained enough to defend the interests of those he defends in court. We all know that exactly the defender defines who he has confidence in, and the legal solution so far has been an obstacle that if a man is identified as someone with less work experience, he can't hire him as a defense attorney for certain acts. In this regard, I believe that it is wrong and that this is exactly the proposed legal solution in line with the constitutional obligation to prohibit discrimination between individual lawyers. In particular, this proposed solution, in the sense of allowing a legal intern to replace a defense attorney, is extremely important. All those who were able to follow the discussion when we last considered amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, know that I was here trying to explain why it is important to enable those who are determined to base their existence on legal work, to enable these young people to be controlled by their principles, under the control of lawyers in whom they practice law enforcement, to slowly enter the problem of criminal law and court proceedings. Because, according to that solution that would have been applied, they would have come into an illogical situation if, first of all, the legal interns who could have replaced a lawyer by one minute at a time had suddenly become untrained to change a lawyer. There would practically be some interruption, someone who could have done it yesterday, now can't because there's been some change in the CAP. Another thing would come to the point if all those lawyer interns who aren't in practice with one of their friends or relatives, a lawyer wouldn't be interested in training an intern if he couldn't do anything on his own in criminal proceedings until the end of his internship. What would that mean? He could only go as an audience, watch and do it for a moment in practice. Who would be really interested in training and training such trainees? Only, possibly, cousin or friend. All other lawyers would be simulated to send such a lawyer to pick up a burek or to pay a fee or to do something else or to sit in his office and wait for a client, not to train him, so that by the end of the traineeship he would be able to defend at least something, or to replace him at certain stores. We have so far had the situation, practically, according to the legal solution, that the legal intern couldn't go to a search where possibly damaged merely states whether he was joining a criminal prosecution or setting up a specific or undefined property claim. Not even a store like that. At this moment, by adopting the proposed solution, each legal intern will be allowed to enter into business slowly along with his principle. First of all, it will certainly enter first into easier crimes and simpler actions, in hearing certain witnesses, and then in craftsmanship and all other procedural activities, to be trained later and to hold the final word and to practically bring that defense to an end. Then we'll be in a situation where when a legal intern passes a judicial exam, when he acquires on that side the conditions for self-employed lawyering, he doesn't get into a situation where, when he gets to defend an official case, if it's for example. about some serious thing, you wouldn't know to walk in the door. This way, we will enable him to engage more effectively with his principles in professional defense, and we will be able to have more professional law, better quality, and hence, the rights of citizens will be adequately protected. That's what's important, because there's a prosecutor's side in the process, there's foreign defenses and there's those who judge. In this part, except for the possibility of additional training of lawyers within the Bar, this way and in practice is possible to improve the work of lawyers. That is why I believe that the proposed legal solution, with a good, correct, quality amendment, has been given by colleagues from the PUPS, is absolutely good and I think it is in the interest, not of law, but above all to exercise the right to legal protection of every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14910	National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Svetislava Bulajic, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous amendment promoter is known for advertising art. 127th and 128th. - The MP who enters the hall is obliged to insert a card into the identification unit, when leaving the hall he is obliged to take it out and to take it with him, according to Article 128. Given that the lady has particularly and zealously advertised the Rules of Procedure, that she has advertised it at least 10 times, I advertise that she is a injured member of 127th and 128th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I'm not asking you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14912	I'd like the Assembly's services to pick up the e-mail card. Since we've completed our search of all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break of 20 minutes. We'll continue at 17.20.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14913	We move on to the 6th item of the agenda - TO CONSIDER THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RAD LAW, in particular. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Olgica Batić, Elvira Kovac, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek, Branka Karavidić, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Bojana Božanić, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejčić, Biljana Pantić Pilja and Ranka Savic. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty; the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives; as well as the opinion of the promoter, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic's MP on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1st of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Olgica Batic. The proposer and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Elvira Kovac, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted to the 1st Amendment. The motion and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by National MP Branko Karavidic. The motion and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14914	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, my intention was to make this law the difference between a woman who had a child and a woman who was fortunate to have twins or more children, so my intention was to increase the time laid down by this Article 1 or by changing this law by 90 minutes to 120 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14915	Nebojsa Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14916	Appreciateing what Mrs Karavidic said, I pointed out that the time added to the pregnant woman, the mother, or the family, for these 90 minutes to be amended and supplemented by this law and added to the 30 minutes she has on the basis of a regular break, which is a time of 120 minutes. I repeat again, it's only those women who, in the first year, voluntarily decide to return to work. The law allows them to spend these years at home, so they do not have to go back to work and do not have to expose themselves to that kind of problem. Of course, fully aware that sometimes, as I said at the Committee's session, 120 and 150 and 180 minutes are insufficient to carry out both breastfeeding and certain childcare, but this law will also require that we as a National Assembly in the next few months to a year carry out a serious insight into what is going on with this law and that everything we see as potential interference or opportunity to improve the law, we do, and even on this basis, if we need to extend that time, if we realize that this time needs to be extended, to extend it. However, I think that in this period of 120 minutes, I say, 90 minutes that predicts the amendments and addition of the law and 30 minutes of regular work, I think it's an optimal time to try to improve that position with that time, without in any way damaging the employer because it's the same two hours of working time. So it's not a little time that's taken away from total working hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14917	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The motion and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Bojana Bozanić, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The motion and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Excuse me, please, first he wants Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14918	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable legislators, when it comes to amendments to the Labour Act, the DSS has responded, we have submitted four amendments to this law in total. They're also how high they are, founded. Our idea, when it comes to these amendments, was primarily not to go into conflict with the motion, but to offer quality legal solutions, to change the text of the law and to specify certain legal provisions. So in Article 1, we wanted first of all, after returning from maternity leave, that the pregnant woman in agreement with the employer should be made known in writing that she would use 90 minutes, whether it would be continuous or take a break. That was our idea, when it comes to this amendment. Otherwise, when it comes to the law itself, the employer himself said, and that is what I want to point out here, that the aim of the law is above all to help this category of women, as well as to fight the white plague. I will remind all the MPs, as I said in the debate in principle, that our nation is one of the oldest nations in Europe, the fourth of the age by population structure, and the tenth in the world, and that we have certain legal solutions, primarily fighting the white plague, to encourage young couples to enter marriage communities, and that women consider pregnancy as a reward, not a sin, in that case when they work. We also pointed out here that this bill should only have been proposed by the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, because we have been waiting for this labour law for almost two years and it will not come to these assembly benches, and we have announcements that it will come. In this context, we expect this labour law to come to these congregation benches as soon as possible because it is one of the systemic struggles against the white plague. We also pointed out that this law was to pass a public debate and that you have imputations both from employers and from the unions themselves, in which way this problem should be solved because there were a lot of problems, a lot of objections and the European Integration Association itself says that women have just been fired most when they were pregnant. That's what we, as MPs, are going to get in the way of certain legal solutions. These legal solutions must first and foremost be consistent with irresponsible social employers. Also, these legal solutions need to motivate young couples, as well as women, and make these legal decisions change the minds of employers. So this is just one small step in fighting the white plague. A hundred of them should be made to change the demographic structure of the population in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14919	Thank you. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14920	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. President of the Assembly, the legislator of this law and ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DSS has understood the intensity of this law and as far as we are concerned, we will support the law, although we have amendedly responded to each member. Our intention was to fix what seemed to be unarranged. Of course, we are fully aware that the law may have come at the last minute, even though we expected the complete package of the Labour Act to be in front of us, so within that package we can discuss this topic, but this is ahead of us, we can discuss it. Of course we understand that the law should improve the position of women and contribute to the promotion of gender equality in the field of work, and on that side we tried to look at this Article 1. Article 1 says this - the employer is obliged to provide the working woman who returns to work one year from the birth of the child with the right to one or more daily breaks during daily work, for a total duration of 90 minutes or for a reduction of daily working hours of 90 minutes, so that she can breast-feed her child if the working time of the working woman is six or more hours. So, it's quite clear, these are things that, after all, we can read in some other laws that apply to the field of work and that's quite acceptable to me. I fear that many problems in practice arise exactly when the law happens to be inaccurate in some part or when, on the other hand, it does not agree with all the actors that need to implement this law practically. I want to say that I and my MP group miss working with the Union of Employers, because employers will be in a position to allow a woman to practically two hours a day to fall behind from work. On this occasion, I really must say that this is one of the rights that is already in the EU and there is known how it is being implemented, but if we do not enter into our law those conditions under which this right will be exercised, I am afraid employers will use every opportunity, and we have research that says that there is indeed great discrimination and violation of human rights in the private employers. They also reacted, after all, to this law, because they practically count that all the burden of social services will be transferred to their shoulders and we will be fair, two hours a day when the worker is away from work, it's quite a time, if it works six hours, it's a third of the time. It would be quite logical if in this part we had provided and supported employers and given some opportunity for them to regulate that status of the woman, but since we didn't, it seems to us that it would be good to clarify immediately at the start of what conditions a woman will use this right. This right is, of course, natural, great that a country that has problems with demographics is really necessary and necessary, but what do you think it takes for a woman who returns to work after seven days with her employer to agree, of course on a written path, because this is a serious way and a serious approach, under which conditions will she use this right? In that case, if we have in mind, that will be a problem. In some EU countries, there is a possibility that at a factory, or facility, there are rooms where someone will come with a child, where someone will look after a child and the like. That's not a word in Serbia. What do you think a woman who lives in Belgrade and works, say, on one end of town, and on the other end of town lives, is 90 minutes in one package, in one cell, enough to do so? Will he be able to divide it into multiple pieces? Will the employer say – I ask only to know on what terms will you use your right? That's why our amendment, as far as the DSS is concerned, is very meaningful. It is simple because the employer and the woman, the mother, will very simply resolve her contract, the agreement, one agreement that is official by written means. I'm afraid if it stays like this, it's a wonderful right, I fully support the promoter. But I'm afraid that if it stays this unregulated, it will simply come to a situation that will be most often violated and women who have the right to do so, their 120 minutes during the day, will not have that right, because from today to tomorrow, the employer will interpret that right in various ways. So I'm asking you to reconsider, because I think this is trying to trace what you wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14921	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14922	I understood the intention of submitting the amendments, and when we talked about this time, as I am aware of the fact that some mothers will not be enough not just 90, but all 120 minutes they have the right to during the day, and some may not double that. But once again, I want to remind myself that women have the right not to go to work for that year at all. They have the right to be at home and to take care of their child, and that's a good thing that we've given them that kind of right. Our next fight should be to provide enough money to ensure that it has the right to be guaranteed, to be fully paid and then to have that economic security. What I want to say about this, in other words, as someone who I am home has a 13-month-old baby, the habits of children in those first year are so fast and so often changing that I'm afraid that the employer might, as well if we want to take it, deliberately interpret that first agreement that would be reached with that mother, and who says, here, I want to use my time at the end of my working time, and then to show her the need to leave work once, so that he says, sorry, you've made a written statement that you want to end working time, and now she can't. Of course it takes communication with the employer, but I also want to believe that first, unfortunately, we are a country where such mothers who work in this way don't have that much. It's about women who are employed for a certain time, it's about women who use a year or shorter in the period of return to work, less than a year. 'So I can't imagine what kind of people these employers would be that would deny such a woman the most optimal way to use her right. Of course, again, if everything is going to be, I may be naive in my belief that employers will, in the best possible way, allow young mothers to use it rightly, but I want to be one of you who will in every way possible, and in the public, and in Parliament, and pressure on state institutions, and inspections and all other control bodies, to convince employers that and how they will have to comply with the provisions of this law, that and how they will have to respect the law and pregnant women and maternity and that we, as the National Assembly, and how to pressure them to respect and demand that those who are malicious or try not to respect this law, bear the consequences. That message, when we send it out clearly enough, I don't think anyone will want to dare first wear a public stigma that will be horrifying, that one's mother, that one woman who came back to work, has a little baby, makes it impossible to use her legal right. Secondly, what is the moral move of any of these people? I'm sure we'll have a lot of work to do. I am convinced that there are good and quality solutions that will only be applied in this and other envisaged solutions of the Labour Act. But here comes our new role again, I mean our role that exists, to follow all of this. I'll be the first to be, I'm not the problem that in consultation with anyone who needs to do this, we say, we've come to an even more precise solution, we've come to an even more precise solution that practice has proved necessary to apply and that here, if it should be in six months, in three months, in a year, whenever it is necessary to change the new change of this solution that we will better define in accordance with the results that appear in practice this existing solution. At this point, let me believe that the agreement between the employee, the young mother and the employer, at this point is the best solution that will not be irritated by the employer, and at the same time we will consider many different situations in which the employees are located. You know, someone works in the open, someone works as a city transport conductor, someone works in a bone, someone works at a company that has several thousand squares. Their terms are not the same, but unfortunately, the law cannot treat them. The law can't solve things that aren't in his domain. So, I think this is for now and that's my opinion, that this is an optimal solution. Of course, I fully appreciate your efforts and your personal efforts in the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Everything we've done together so far has shown that we've been trying to do in the interests of mothers and children. In that spirit, and I also think of a colleague who spoke before you, I am quite positive to understand all these amendments, therefore, not as something bad, but just as an attempt to get to the best possible solutions. PRESIDENT: Milica Vojić Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14923	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I cannot say one sentence. She's a little scared of employers doing something like that, so I have to point out as a good example, even though it might be ugly that it's the man who's from my party. Former Minister Aleksandar Popovic hired a woman who was eight months pregnant at the Ministry of Science. I've been doing a little Internet taping, and I've been looking for information about how much someone hired a woman who was pregnant during a later pregnancy. Believe me, I only found two cases. I'll answer you now. I'm talking about public enterprises, I'm talking about those state institutions that should be fighting for birth if private employers have other options. Now I'm going to answer your question. I fully understand your intentions, she's clear to me. But I'll answer you by research. When we're getting ready for the law, I assume that as a pronoun, you've watched research as well as employers' intensity. You said, "What kind of people are they? Are they the employers of the people who will carry the alms?" They're not interested in Stigma too much. Now in labour laws, on gender equality that prevents discrimination, and this is about gender discrimination in terms of pregnancy and childbirth, women now have rights that they challenge. Research says so. Your employers are people who fire them while they're pregnant and when they have little children. Employers are people who are looking at 53.5% of cases where a woman already determines whether she will have a family when she plans to have children. So they're hitting their private plans. The employers are the people who ask them to sign the blank resignations, so if they stay pregnant by accident during that period, then they lose their right to work, lose their jobs. I understand you're looking at the most beautiful way possible. Unfortunately, I'm looking through research. Research is on the side of what we wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14924	Thank you. The word is Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14925	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Stefanovic, I understand your good intentions, but I see the difference between oral and written agreement with employers. The oral agreement also does not have to apply to the employer. But in writing, a woman who is being negotiated has at least some written document that can be tied to. I listed dozens of examples here from a company called "Jura", a factory that was built in Leskovac. In fact, dozens of women came to me just to suggest that they were fired in a working relationship because they were pregnant, although we already have the Labour Act that protects that woman. Simply, the employer does not adhere to this law for one simple reason – because the inspection bodies do not do their job well and because the union in these companies is fictitious, because we are poor society and the union does not want to lift the hall around it. So we think that this amendment of ours precisely defines how a woman in agreement with her employer will decide to use those 90 minutes and should accept it. I'm saying again, I understand your good intentions, I understand your idea, but I think our idea is suggestive and precisely how a woman can use this break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14926	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14927	What I'm saying is that this example is exactly why I proposed the law. It won't be possible for a woman to lose her job because she's out of work. It's up to the adoption of this law in accordance with the law, unfortunately. When her labor contract expires, and the employer decides not to extend it, he did not break the law. He thus violated the deepest morale – he hit this country, hit pregnant women. But since we've noticed that some of the employers, I don't want to believe that all employers are such, some of the employers don't commit it, I've suggested the adoption of a law that will prevent women from losing their jobs in that period by simply ending their labour contract. He's going to have to enforce the law until the 12th month after the birth of the child, which guarantees the Labour Act, and I think we understand that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14928	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14929	Thank you. I'm gonna use group time, and I'm talking about the amendment. So it's not a replica, although it does refer to the same member. I have to say, although I suppose it's a different procedure when the legislator is a national MP, but it bothers me that we didn't get a written explanation that the amendments were accepted. I think there are about 12 amendments on this bill, including these four from the DSS, so you're these arguments that you've now spoken to us orally, but it might be good to think about whether you have the right to refuse this amendment as well. I understand your argument that habits are changing and that different needs may arise during that period in the way of using these 90 minutes. However, my colleague also told you that the oral agreement also does not have to be respected. Also, you can say – we agreed orally, that and, let's say, at the beginning of that period and that it was also something that neither the employer nor the mother had to commit. It's nice of you, you actually said, maybe it's naive, that we believe in every employer's good intentions in Serbia or that we talk about their morals. I think you used that word. Employers, or those who hire, generally keep in mind high productivity, or profit. Here, a colleague set an example of a company that works and employs a large number of people, including women in Leskovac. So they're a significant employer. However, I don't think we can trust that every employer or that employers in Serbia before personal, not personal, but making profits and high productivity will decide on this second. I wish it wasn't, but it's just practice and everything that's going on with us when it comes to this, it's denying us. So, every day you open a newspaper, you can read the story of a young woman who either couldn't be admitted to work, so, employed or who got fired or who had to experience having to tell a future or potential employer and explain her private plans, so that's something that happens every day. We are simply denied by reality that there is now some high awareness or morality when it comes to the white plague in Serbia. The other thing you said is, it makes me happy and I have no reason not to believe that you say that we, therefore, are going to follow the implementation of this law. You know, we've passed, and this convocation and the previous summation, a lot of laws, especially laws concerning employees. I remember the Law on the Prevention of Labour Abuse, i.e. the Prevention of Mobing or the Law on Gender Equality. These are all systemically important laws Serbia has not met. So, this was something completely new in our legal practice, and it certainly doesn't say that there was no will from the MPs, but simply that as a Assembly, we don't have developed instruments, measures and activities to monitor the implementation of certain provisions of certain laws. We will talk tomorrow in detail about the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. It is also something that this assembly or the implementation of that law as a congregation could not monitor its application, so we were all in principle referring to data from the tax administration, so we were able to follow through the tax administration as employers applied the provisions of that law. It's simple, I don't see a way. The way a person comes to us, whether he's a minister or a state secretary from the department, this is going to be the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and they're bringing us quarterlyly quite quality reports, it's just reporting. As a parliament, we have no possibility of really following what is happening in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14930	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The motion and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojana Bozanic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The motion and resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? National MP Momo Colaković, please. Did you happen to sign up? Okay, nothing. Does anyone want a word about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The motion and resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14931	I was just thinking that I was fiercely defending this amendment of ours when the promoter surprised me. Thank you for accepting our amendment, we were really looking at a little physiology, so we came to this amendment and it's good that you accepted it. I would like to comment on what was in the previous amendment that my colleagues Lapčević and Bojana Bozanić submitted, the existence of the circumstances under Law 1, which is actually a pregnancy. They need to confirm a certified doctor or other competent authority. We simply wondered what the other competent authority was besides the doctor who had to confirm it, because I'm afraid this is going to cause confusion, so we asked for an explanation, because we simply didn't understand and managed to get to it ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14932	Here, the word is Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14933	I've been a little consulted about it and I've been on the verge of accepting that amendment, but then they tell me that there's a commission that's been designated and in the case, it determines these circumstances, under certain conditions not only one doctor is being declared, but a commission is being formed. Only because of that, otherwise, I said at the right moment, what the other competent authority would be, but in order not to exclude those women who have to commission to determine, and that's the only reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-04-0.u14934	Thank you. National MP Biljana Pantic Pilja submitted to the 2nd amendment. The motion and resolution committee adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so we find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Ranka Savic submitted. The motion and resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that during today's session, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Dr Jovan Krkobbić, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Employment and Social Policy, I have also called for the presence of Zoran Martinović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and Ljiljana Juver, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the 7th item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE LAWS ON PROFESSIONAL REHABILITATION AND EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS WITH INVALIDITY National MP Srdjan Milivojević is advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
