ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11872	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since today is Tuesday, on the basis of Article 287(2). The Rules of Procedure, the MPs of today's session, have the right to request information and explanations. Whether the President, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11873	On behalf of the URS parliamentary group, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia what it will do about hooligan behaviour at sports matches and increasingly numerous incidents that turn people's manifestations of sports celebrations and undoubtedly positive content into unsuitable social incidents. It is not difficult to assume that the question is motivated by the latest incident of the species, related to the finals of the "Ravoje Koraća" Cup and the basketball game Partizan - Red Star in the sports hall "The Lake" in Kragujevac. It is not satisfactory or realistic to expect sports societies and clubs to solve this problem on their own, nor that sport is a social activity capable of overcoming this problem on its own. Such crises and incidents break down the most profound contradictions of our society, and so is this one in Kragujevac. For five months, the mayor of Kragujevac has been unsuccessfully warning all competent state authorities that there is a problem with the police administration in Kragujevac and a problem with the city's security, but only when Covic and Djilas on the subject hangs, the public hears and recognizes the problem. Is just a message from Belgrade only relevant and worthy of listening? Does our government have a power for messages of a similar kind, like, in Great Britain, when football games were all about, like, major incidents? In a soccer cradle then Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher explicitly ordered – control the cattle or cut your football. No one had the guts to see if she meant it. I urge the Government of the Republic of Serbia to pay attention to this problem with the full authority of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11874	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11875	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a first question for the Minister of Agriculture. Since we have learned from the media these days and read a lot of information about the presence of alpha toxins or poisons in milk found in neighboring countries, we have also read about the fact that agricultural, as well as veterinary inspection, are doing extraordinary milk sampling for the presence of this poison right in the milk, my question is what are our laboratories that are equipped and trained, both in terms of personnel and equipment, to carry out an analysis? What I have as information is that the only Institute of Meat Technology in Belgrade, so I'm setting up a Minister of Agriculture is there another institution that is authorized, except for this and why is it necessary and why is it waiting so many days to get results? The second question is also for the Minister of Agriculture, but also for the Minister of Health – what is being taken, i.e. the consumer protection measures, i.e., we are being taken over by citizens so as not to consume the river fish in which the parasite was found, and which is extremely harmful to human health? I'll remind you that the doctor is a professor. Miroslav Ćirkovic from the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad presented serious data that in some types of river fish, such as catfish, smur and carp, this parasite is in large quantities. This parasite is introduced by consumption and undercooked or undercooked fish. The symptoms of man’s disease are inflammation of the mucosal stomach, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, and so forth. That is also claimed by Dr Jovan Vukadinov of the Infectious Clinic of the Vojvodina Clinical Center. My question to the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health is whether that fish is being fish and how it is, primarily, whether it is illegal or legally trafficked. I'll take the opportunity to ask a few questions to the Minister of Culture. The first question is when will the National Museum be opened, and when was the last time that a checklist of artistic and historical valuables that were taken out of that museum in the beginning of the works, where they were, who kept them, did what go missing and if it was gone, how and how did they determine it? Did the Ministry of Culture and did the Minister of Culture take any action personally or did he at least find it appropriate to hold a protest at the scientific meeting of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and to declare "Miroslav's Gospel" as the oldest Croatian book? What is the position of this ministry on the abolition of rare cultural shows called "Although awake with Ivon Jafali", whose author is just listed and will the ministry take action? On the other hand, I have to ask the question of the Minister of Culture -- how much does it cost to keep a car at the Ministry of Culture monthly, and how much more money is it than that money needed for the mentioned show? I have another question to ask the Minister of Culture, which is what the Ministry of Culture is doing and what does it do in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11876	Thank you. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11877	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the government a question in front of the DSS parliamentary group. The public in Serbia is very upset with the findings of Saric's drug group meetings with Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, with his cabinet chief, Branko Lazarevic and his adviser, Ivica Tonchev. As known, the DSS sent a request yesterday to the prosecutor's office to immediately listen to Branko Ruzic, a member of the SPS, because he lied roughly to the public saying that Saric's drug group financed the DSS of 220,000 euros a month. Then we asked whether it was true that the second cabinet chief of cabinet of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, Mr. Vanja Vukic, also had contacts with Saric's drug group. We didn't get any answers, nor did we see the prosecution react. Therefore, we want to ask the government whether the government will disclose the content of 130 disks on the Saric's drug group's meetings with the highest representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We understand that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can respond that the discovery of these contents could compromise the investigation and, taking into account this fact, we are asking the Serbian government to carry out an investigation within the shortest period of seven to ten days and then to disclose the contents of all 130 disks. If the Prime Minister disobeys this request by the DSS and, under the pretext that it is a state secret, we do not know what the contents of 130 disks are, then unfortunately, it is crucial proof that the Prime Minister himself has been working with the Saric's drug group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11878	Please do not make claims that may be offensive. I'm just asking you to let us stick to it here in Parliament. I'm not going to interrupt you, but I'm asking you to take care of our exposure balances so that they don't be offensive to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11879	Mr. President, you know exactly what it means to stop me from finishing what I want to say, and it's done...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11880	I'm not stopping you. I'll give you back this time. You'll have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11881	It is a question that is completely legitimate and that the DSS has the right to refer to the government, but of course it expects an answer. It is a very important investigation and is primarily in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, this parliament, the government and the general future of the Serbian state. Please consider what I'm asking as a question. The Democratic Party of Serbia has requested the prime minister's resignation over an agreement in a dialogue he has reached, primarily with Pristina. The Democratic Party of Serbia also requested the resignation of Prime Minister and when Prime Minister Ivica Dacic himself admitted that he had met with the top members of the Saric group. Therefore, it concerns the fact that Branko Ruzic, a member of the SPS, accused the DSS and falsely that she received 220,000 euros from Saric's group, which is why the prosecution should react, because it will be the best way to determine the truth and to see what is behind this lie. This will only be learned if the content of 130 disks is disclosed. It's a question the DSS asks of the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11882	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11883	I have a question for the finance and business minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. This year, January 9th, the Croatian concert "Agrokor" sold in a single impressive transaction to Zagreb's "Ledo" a complete package of actions in "Frikom" whose majority owner was until that time. In total, 629,806 shares were sold at the price of 17,186 dinars per share and a turnover of 10 billion 823 million 845,916 dinars was achieved. In this way, Ledo became the majority owner of the "Frikoma" of 95.83%. Given the situation in the central register, deposit and clearing of securities, I have established that the Republic of Serbia's Action Fund has 24,667 actions, "Frikoma". These actions are indirectly owned by four million and 800,000 of our citizens who, in accordance with the law and sublaws, have exercised the right to seven free actions of the Action Fund. Since "Ledo" on January 24th offered to take all remaining actions at the same price as the majority package, my question for Minister Mladjan Dinkic is whether the Republic of Serbia will, through the Privatisation Agency which manages the Action Fund, accept an offer to take over Zagreb's Leda and sell 24.667 actions of "Frikoma" and thereby fill in the Action Fund in some way, by making the income of 423 million 927.062 dinars? I suppose that these funds would not remain passive and that Serbian citizens as shareholders of the Fund could be established to expect their increase in the responsible approach to investment, which would contribute to the current nominal value of the Action Fund at some point in time. The second question is, in this sense, does the Ministry of Economy and Finance plan to amend the law that would allow the transformation of the Stock Fund from closed to an open stock company to enable the sale of shares?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11884	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11885	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the last 10 days of a heated political situation seem to have put them in another EPS-related event plan. In the prepica between the EPS directors, Obradovic and the chairman of the EPS Management Board, we have learned some information that speaks of the dubiosis currently in the EPS. In the opinion of the EPS director, it is necessary for the EPS to be credited for 440m euros this year, which takes about 200m euros for this year just to recover the commitments that are due to be collected, which have been taken over in previous years. What we failed to learn from Obradovic's director is the structure of this debt and the dates of the arrival of these earlier loans. Also in some media, Mr Obradovic said that since October, the EPS has been doing the opposite of the Energy Act, and he has informed us that the government has adopted a business plan, i.e. a business plan for 2013 where a loan debt is foreseen for 440m euros. I'm going to repeat that number again, 440m euros, not dinars. The chairman of the EPS Steering Board said a meeting of the Management Board to give consent to credit responsibility would be scheduled after the necessary consultations in the Serbian government. We received some response from the resolution ministry through a press release that some working group for the security of energy supply daily monitors the situation in the energy sector and will respond if there are any problems. Because of all this, the LDP, or our Energy Resolution Committee, sent an open letter to Mr. Obradovic, where we sought answers to some questions, such as – what has he done since his appointment, since September, to overcome the problems in the business of the EPS and what steps will leadership take in the next period, so that the dubiosis in which the EPS is located, try in some way to resuscitate? For LDP, all of this looks like an EPS sale preparation at a baffle price. That's why we're asking the Serbian government -- will the Serbia Electro-pricessorship be sold and is such a media manner of communication between the officials of the office, the director, the chairman of the Management Board, the ministry, meant to prepare for the sale of the EPS at that baffle price? All of this negatively affects the EPS business itself. Yesterday, we learned that EPS was left without a long-term buyer, who took over electricity from Slovenians, whose offer by 70% was more favourable than the EPS offer. We are also asking the question – is it true that Serbia's Elektroprivreda currently obtains electricity from imports by 50 euros per megawatt hour and sells for 40 euros per megawatt hour?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11886	The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11887	Thank you. As a Kragujevcan and a witness to the hooligan events two days ago, as well as my predecessor, a colleague from the URS, Saša Milanić, I would like to ask a question just about these sporting events that we are all in direct transmission, or as present in the stands, had the opportunity to see in Kragujevac, I say once again, two days ago. The fact is, it's not just a situation in our sport and basketball. It reflects the state of our country and our society. The question I want to ask is actually multilayered, there's a lot of questions. One was addressed to the government itself and Prime Minister Dacic, as interior minister, then to the minister of justice, youth minister and sports. We've had opportunities to see that the MUP has been led by the current prime minister in the last five years. We're under the impression that he hasn't moved his finger in the fight against the hooligans. We act like the hooligans are our kids with puberty problems and they're gonna get past those bugs and they're gonna come back to normal life. We're waiting for a miracle to happen and we can go back to the field or send our children without worrying if they'll come back whole. The fact is that today you need to be equipped as members of the gendarmes, in order to be on the stands as sure as any chair won't hit you, as it was two days ago, more chairs flew than basketball in Kragujevac. The incident in Kragujevac was not the biggest, it was important to the larger, but the fact that the public accepted this fact very differently. We've had opportunities in the media to read a different perception of this event. Some talk about a conflict between basketball leaders, some about a conflict between fans. And we had a chance to hear from an MP who actually wanted to take this opportunity to take advantage of a political struggle in his town, in order to protect the ruling coalition in Kragujevac. Such abuse of such topics is bad. We're actually asking a question – what about the Amnesty Act? Where are those people? Right now, justice for these people is being served, and they're showing up on the ground again today. Is Alexander Vavić, who was behind the prime minister on election night, who was also released by the Court of Appeal in October, and otherwise the leader of the Alcatraz fan group, has his own task – is it possible that even from the prime minister, any events of this type happen in the country? We also have a question for the Minister of Youth and Sports - what's going on with her? Actually, she's completely invisible. We have a question about what happens to one body that was founded, which is the National Council for the Prevention of Violence in Sports? Did he even take up that national council? As much as I have information, it's not. Sometimes he throws out a press release, where they actually talk about what the current situation is, and it mostly ends up in mourning. The fact is that we want this national council to take responsibility and to measure concretely how we're going to prevent a single increase in crime at all lately. It's a good fight against corruption and it's something we can always say hello to. We talked about whether she's selective or not. But here we're talking about an entirely different degree, the degree of one crime that develops in all fields, obviously aided by some groups that are very well organized. We've come to the point that the state is powerless in front of the hooligans, or at least that's how it is, maybe on purpose. The questions we have also asked the minister of justice, about amnesty, the youth minister, about this national council, Prime Minister Dacic, about what has happened and what is happening with Aleksandra Vavic, but what is happening with the MUP are important issues. We also want to ask the question - what happened to the law that was brought into this house in December 2009, which is the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior? Are the legal measures prescribed by this law taken? He predicts in Article 8a of Article 9 that one record of the violents must be established and that they are banned from access to sporting events. I don't feel like someone formed that record. I don't feel like anyone's been banned. In Kragujevac, even a large number came in without cards, and that was something that was obviously further causing the problem. We want to ask the question – what does it take to do? Is that the new law, the stricter the fine, the more money from the budget? Say what's necessary, don't shut up. Don't let a lot of young people who want to cheer for their clubs today have no chance of doing anything other than in front of TV. As someone who's young and who's been active in sports for a few years and as a function of a small alliance, I want to ask, are we really going to have this at all the most important games and how is this going to end? (President: Time. I say one more time, say what's necessary, don't shut up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11888	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11889	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the parliamentary group and to report to us what has been done and what are the results of the inspection activity being carried out in Kovacica in connection with the construction of a recycling plant and oil derivatives and asbestos? What's this about? In 2005, more than 2,500 citizens of the Kovačica municipality submitted a petition making it clear that the territory of the Kovačica municipality is not being built by an oil and asbestos processing plant. To make evil bigger, a local permit has been issued as well as a building permit which the citizens of Kovacs consider to be out of line with the positive legal regulations that were then in force. Besides, there are other dangers. Namely, this factory and the warehouse are built 350 meters from the inhabited area. They're built right near the sugar beet dump. This sugar tail is being processed at a factory in Kovacica, using water that is directly resources next to that warehouse that should be, and then asking the question and I'm asking the question, which logically also the citizens of Kovacica - are we going to question and use the Vojvodina brand? If these sugars from Vojvodina, if these products from Kovačica are available, are now branded by Vojvodina, and are produced next to the source of the threat, is this a reference to Vojvodina and Serbia to place their products in the EU. I believe that this is not only a question of the SNS parliamentary club, that this is also the issue and representatives of parliament representing both the interests of Vojvodina and Banat and who want the region to affirm in Europe. In this regard, I ask the Government to provide us with information and to take the appropriate measures immediately. To remind me that for seven days in Kovacica, hundreds of citizens have been on strike, every evening the myths are being held. We don't see it on TV. We don't see it in the means of public information. Personally, I wonder why, is this blacksmith so far away that we can't see what it's about or do we have any other kind of problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11890	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milorad Stosic, Mladen Grujic and Vladimir Marinkovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representatives of Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, I have also called on the sittings to attend Dejan Popovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Petar Stanojevic, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection and Zoran Ibrović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. We continue to work and move on to the principle search on the fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the production of documents for the realisation of the Natural Gas Transport System "South Stream". You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. Before opening a principle search, I remind you it's according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which you received details about in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they immediately file a statement with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of Professor Zorana Mihajlovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11891	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, you have before you a bill on the determination of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation for the realisation of the construction of the natural gas transport system "South Stream". I have to tell you, I have a special pleasure to speak to you today. It took a few months for this law to be prepared and I thank you in advance for all the well-intentioned criticism and amendments, which I believe you will propose. As you know, the South Stream project should allow Serbia to increase energy security. Serbia today is supplied with gas from only one direction. It makes her primarily insecure. On the other hand, Serbia has defined that it will be gassing in the use of gas much more than it has done so far. In that sense, the "South Stream" as an international project is in any case significant for Serbia. Because it is important for Serbia, that is why we have defined ourselves to propose to the Assembly such a law, so that what is mostly the biggest problem when it comes to such large infrastructure projects, which is land expropriation, so that such a job can be done much faster than if we didn't have such a law. What I will brief you on is that a feasibility study has been done so far, a general project and a spatial plan of a specific purpose area, that we have prepared this law and I hope that the Assembly will adopt it, and that as Serbia, as a country that represents only one of the countries through which the South Stream will pass, what it is on us we have prepared. In addition, the South Stream next to what I mentioned should provide us with a second course of gas flow. The "South Stream" increases the state's energy stability and ultimately every new pipeline allows us to do so. I believe that during the debate, we will also talk about new jobs and all those opportunities that Serbia can have to build one of these big projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11892	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11893	Mrs. Mihajlovic, Mr. President, the MPs, from your presentation, Madam Minister, we could conclude that this is a technical law and this law can in some way be presented as a technical law. This is about speeding up land expropriation, preparing the terrain for the construction of the pipeline through Serbia. There's about 10,000 plots to be expropriated, about 800 acres, that's not what you said. All of this can be viewed as a technical matter. All this must be accelerated in order to end the investment as quickly as possible, in order to get to new jobs as quickly as possible, in order for Serbia and the whole region to develop and progress thanks to this project. It's not all questionable. The key syntax of this bill could be special rules. This provides for specific rules regarding expropriation, concerning the shortening of procedures, regarding various technical details that serve to build the "South Stream" through Serbia as soon as possible. Like I said, it's not a dispute. The dispute is that this bill is just one link in a big chain. The chain was confirmed, voted in the National Assembly four and a half years ago, and the chain is called an agreement between the RS government and the Russian Federation government on co-operation in the oil and gas sectors. As you know, SVM was one of the three parties in the previous National Assembly meeting that did not vote to confirm the agreement. I know that this agreement today is not a topic, that you weren't a member of the government when that agreement was signed and proposed to the National Assembly, but we can't look at this whole project in a way that's just some technical details. It is also necessary to consider the situation here as a whole and thus to formulate the position of the day to vote on this bill. Four and a half years ago, we said we were not against Russian capital, we are not against building the "South Stream" on Serbia's territory. We were opposed to this agreement because we thought that a concrete investor, i.e. a concrete other contractual party, favoured and that the RS was placed in an unequal position in this whole agreement, which is part of the construction of the South Stream, which is part of the bill of which the National Assembly of the RS is today discussing. We said we were against that unwarranted favor. We said we were against bypassing regular legal privatisation and that procedure. We were against this agreement because neither the non-binding opinion of the then Regional Executive Council, i.e. the Ministry of Energy of the AP Vojvodina, regardless of where the Banatski Dvor was, we know whose NIS was or "Naftagas" at the time, or earlier, and we know where almost total oil and gas production in Serbia is being realized. It's done in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We said four and a half years ago that Serbia will unfortunately lose its right to own oil resources, which is a natural wealth and that we will not be able to influence the price and supply of oil. In some ways, we lose some of our sovereignty as a state. That's what we said four and a half years ago and I think we were right and we did the right thing when we voted against that agreement. It is not right that environmental protection was not taken into account when a signature was put before the RS government on the agreement that was ratified in September 2008. For all these exceptional reasons, we need to look at the overall, whole agreement, that is, the whole content of this agreement between the RS and the Russian Federation in 2008. If we go back to the present, in 2013, and we focus on this bill, then I have to point out that we have never been, nor will we ever be against any investor or any investment. We believe that investments are welcome, that they are necessary and that without an external injection of capital, without the development of infrastructure on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia has been paved in the city for years or decades. Of course, we weren't even in 2008 against the construction of South Stream, we're not now. If we take into account the facts mentioned in the bill's statement that the estimated value of the construction of the pipeline in Serbia is about a billion and 700m euros, that the South Stream route through Serbia is long, i.e. it will be 470km long, then these data are such that it is difficult to find any argument against the construction of this pipeline. The press has published various data that should support the construction of this pipeline. The data has been reported, for example, that around 200m euros will be poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget annually. I would like to ask you – is this information, is this assessment correct, can it be said with a certain amount of security that this will happen? I know it's a projection, so we can't talk about specific numbers, but can we say that this projection is approximately correct? The press says that this pipeline will launch a good part of Serbia's economy and that about 2,000 workers will be directly engaged in the work, and indirectly much more. This is what my esteemed colleague Dusan Bajatovic said several times. I know, Madam Minister, that in many cases you can try to say the opposite of what Mr. Bajatovic says in the media, but regarding this topic I have not heard the denials from you, Madam Minister. So that means to me that Mr. Bajatovic hit this number. In this case, I want you to confirm this conjecture of mine that is currently subduing. Mr. Bajatovic said Serbia is expected to receive half a billion euros after the pipeline is built. I trust Mr. Bayatovic, but you are still a member of the government, so I'd like you to confirm that information. I said just before that we are not and we cannot be against any investment and we have never been against investment, regardless of which country that investment is coming from, that investor. We also know that in today's day, countries in the environment, including in all of Europe, are being beaten, under the allegations, for investors, for the investor to invest funds directly in the infrastructure on the territory of a particular country, so we are happy that the pipeline will go right through Serbia. We made an announcement in 2008, and it cannot be a criticism of you and the current government because you were then in opposition, that this agreement was signed in a way that has the elements of sub-dominated mentality by the then government of the Republic of Serbia. I know these are harsh words, but I think that the always-day government of the Republic of Serbia should defend the interests of its country. I think, as I said today, as we said in 2008, that this agreement puts Serbia in an unequal position in relation to the Russian side. Even though we are not against investors from Russia, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I must say that I am not glad that this is the case and that Serbia is being put in place, thanks to this agreement that we did not vote for in 2008, in an unequal position in economic terms. We are also not pleased that the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is being relativised under the guise of international law supremacy. It has been said for years that under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, international law is above internal law, that certified international agreements should be in accordance with the Constitution, but that the laws should be in accordance with international agreements confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution. If that's the case, then there's an oil rent question. I know it's not a topic today, and as I said at the beginning here it's about a whole package of which is only part, a significant part, but still part, just building South Stream. Before I ask a few questions about the views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and about the oil rental, I want to say that it bothers us, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that Serbia is the only country through which the South Stream will pass, which will be the minority owner of the joint venture. I want to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this pipeline will pass through Bulgaria, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, Italy. Among those countries, Serbia alone, thanks to the 2008 agreement we did not vote for, will be a minority owner, i.e. a minority owner of a joint venture DOO South Stream. I think it is in line with the ethnic mentality of four and a half years ago and that it is absolutely contrary to economic interests, not only of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, but of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. An alarming statement by Mr. Chugunov, South Stream project leader, since 10 November 2012. He said of "Politics", on the question -- why in the whole business Serbia is a minority owner, since all other countries are equal partners, I quote, that they agreed so and that there was a reason why it was so. I would like to know, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which were the reasons why the previous government signed such an agreement that put all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in such an unequal position and more economically. I said earlier that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, approved international agreements should not be contrary to the Constitution without the laws being contrary to the approved international agreements. I would like to ask a question – is Mrs Mihajlovic, the Mining Act, adopted in 2011, contrary to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of oil and gas economy? If this is how we quote the Constitution, and this provision cannot be interpreted in any other way, then it turns out that our internal legislation should be in line with confirmed international agreements. In 2008, this esteemed House confirmed an agreement with the Russian Federation, which I quote, in the event of the entry into the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, which leads to the deterioration of the conditions of taxation to the achievement of the cost-effectiveness of projects, will be carried out in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Serbia which was in force on the day of the signing of this agreement. On the day of the signing of the interstate agreement, oil rent was 3%. Meanwhile, in 2011, it was raised to 7%. However, the SVM suggested that it be 9%, but it is still a big step to be 7%. Now I don't understand, on this job, in the future, whether the oil rent from the law of the Republic of Serbia will be applied, or if the rate, which is unfavourable for Serbia and for all its citizens, will be applied under the auspices of the international contract. If I say it's unfavourable, then I want to make sure that we don't talk about it. So, data from last year show that Vojvodina, Serbia and local self-government received 30m euros less income per year because of the 3 per cent oil rental, instead of applying the 2011 law of the Republic of Serbia. This means, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that by the expiry of the energy agreement with the Russian Federation by 2038, the loss could be about a billion euros, which is about two and a half times the price that Gazprom paid for NIS. I ask you, as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do you find that acceptable and how do you consider this issue? Because, Mr. Bacevic, Minister Bacevic told Tanjug on January 3rd that he is not for changing the mining rent for oil and gas, because this would disrupt good and quality relations with the Russian Federation. Is that the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It would be good to say clearly and loudly how much Gazprom Njeft invests annually in Serbia, because we are not a political party and we have never approached a single question in such a way. We need to see how much it costs, how much it earns, and how much it loses Serbian citizens because of certain, in particular, interstate agreements and regulations adopted in the National Assembly. It may be that Gazprom Njeft invests so much in Serbia's economy that it is worth throwing out a 30m-euro window annually just because an oil rent of 3% is applied, not by the law of the Republic of Serbia of 7%. However, I still hope that there may be some quality agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation to resolve this issue, because I know that the legal situation is not simple. A lot depends on the interpretation of whether oil rent is tax or tax, or something else. I don't think it's tax or tax. It is my opinion and the opinion of the SVM that Article 13 of the interstate agreement between the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should not be interpreted in a way that the oil rental is paid by only 3%. Therefore, I ask you, as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to fight for the application of the Law of the Republic of Serbia, that everyone pays an oil rent of 7%, which is still among the lower ones in Europe, because this would be in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in the interest of the state. I would like to conclude in the end and say that we are behind all these arguments that we have presented in 2008, which I have brought out now, but, since we want to invest in the economy, we want to invest in the infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia as well. Since it is extremely important that the South Stream pipeline passes through Serbia, and since it has been resolved years ago, then we will support this bill, but we expect answers to these questions and expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and in economic terms, not just politically. I would also like to conclude that, as we all know, modern sovereignty is related to economic power and should not allow any country in the world to bring Serbia into an unequal position, as well as all citizens, because if we are talking about sovereignty, then we must be aware that those who are sovereign cannot possibly be subject to the commandments of others. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is sovereign, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are sovereign in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11894	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11895	Thank you very much for your comments. I agree with you that this is not exactly the subject of the draft law itself, but I understand all your doubts, questions, and everything you have previously commented on and what you are now repeating. You and I, as you said at the very end, fully agree that we should really do everything to invest as much in our country as possible. This draft law is precisely in this goal, to simply ensure the possibility and conditions to move towards the construction of the South Stream through Serbia as soon as possible. There are two reasons. One reason is stability, the country's gas stability is necessary. Another reason is what is called the launch of construction and any other operations, the employment of people, whether they will be employed only within that time period while the "South Stream" is being built and, of course, the opportunities that stand before some other investors, whether foreign or domestic, that along the "South Stream" they can build some other buildings and that certainly affects the competitiveness of the country itself. But, of course, you mentioned some of the things in the interstate agreement here. I'll answer a few things for sure, no matter what the matter of mine rent, which I'll also give you a certain answer to, belongs to the other ministry, the Minister of Mining, but let me start with that. As you know, there is an interstate committee between the Russian Federation and Serbia. The conclusion of the last meeting of the interstate committee, held in December and early December of last year, is that an analysis of the viability of NIS investment and on the basis of this cost-effectiveness analysis of the investment will be determined in fact and the level of the mining rent. I think you should know that. If you don't, here, this is a way to get information. The issue of minority ownership, I fully agree with you and I am very sorry that Serbia is the only country, of all the countries that have signed the energy agreement, which does not have the 50-50% partnership relationship. I also think that the issues of the energy agreement, which last from 2008 to today, have been told so many times already. What I can say from this position right now is that there's a possibility that through further talks, through transit fees, and I'll tell you about it, let's try to make that position of the Serbian side better than it is because it is 49%, as you say. When you talk about taxi revenues, they're between two and five dollars per thousand cubic meters. So there's this big range, between $369 million in total. Now it's a matter of negotiation. It is now a matter of us sitting down and negotiating for Serbia as a state to get as much as possible. On our part, we will do our utmost in this regard, and that is what we do now, among other things. A few more things you mentioned about oil and gas exploitation. Oil and gas research at Gazprom Njefta takes place, i.e. this right runs until 2015. Under the new Mining Act, you know that what the government has now exploited must certainly trust them to do so. It's one of the things I think is significant. When you talk about the value of the project itself, the general project means the possibilities of deviations, which are quite high, plus minus 20%, which means that we can't say exactly what that value is going to be. I believe that a few things for us in this sense are significant, when we are talking specifically about the South Stream, which is that we do our utmost to make sure that these negotiations on transit taxis, about starting construction, are done on our part in the most valid way. I'm not saying how previous negotiations were made, the result is what you said everything yourself, but now it's up to us to make everything we can really right and do right. I hope I've answered all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11896	MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11897	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO and the DHSS consider that in the adoption of the "South Stream" law, as it is called, we should also take care of the interests of the state, but also the interests of citizens, primarily citizens, through whose cadastrian plots or through the place where their house, property, garages, auxiliary facilities, to keep a parallel account and to take care of the interests of both sides equally. This is in the spirit of what Mr Balint Pastor said about an interstate agreement that has already been completed and completed. Probably time will show that the Russian Federation, handling its interests and its economic interests, has taken great care of its interests, as a large and serious state, and that we have taken less care of our economic interests. As a result, some members of the ruling coalition did not vote in favour of the agreement at the start of Serbia, both in the assessment of the NIS value and in the conclusion of the agreement, and would suffer damage in the future. If so, and there are great indicators that it is, it should be one of the signposts and this government in the future that every country, whether it has been friendly to us, whether there are strong historical, cultural and any other links, such as there are with the Russian Federation, but still in the conduct of economic policy and any other kind of policy, is primarily managed by its own interests. What matters for SPO and DHSS is the South Stream Act, which is that we will surely uphold this law. We are absolutely aware of the fact that energy stability means for our republic, which means a billion and six million investments, which means opening up new jobs, which means charging transit fees through the Republic of Serbia, which means getting economic benefits, primarily from people who will be employed there, by workers, subcontractors, etc. However, of course, this also raises some questions, and we want, above all, to take into account what seems to be the atmosphere imposed, that energy stability may be in another plan or in the sub-plan, such as the conclusion of an energy agreement with the Russian Federation, that in addition to that economic benefit, we will have some political benefits, above all, regarding KIM status. In that part, the Russian Federation's position is unchanged. And this government largely accepts the reality that has largely changed, i.e. the government's position on the government's position in 2008, but I think in a positive sense, that Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and the entire government accept reality. Reality is what it is. We don't like her to be like that, but if you lead yourself astray and keep her in error, then you yourself will suffer the adverse consequences of your own delusion. What makes us think that there's a lot more to be taken into account first of all about citizens, landowners, properties that the South Stream pipeline will pass through? In our assessment, there's a lot to be left to the conscience of the South Stream company. We understand the absolute need for certain provisions of the Expropriation Act not to apply, that a reduced administrative procedure is being conducted because all previous experience with similar investments shows that citizens in similar investments also see a chance to sell their immovableity for a much higher price, to run long-term litigation, and thus prevent the implementation of investments, and we also have cases where the route of the highway to Požega is made, that citizens have even started on the routes to build houses, in the belief that when the house starts to build, they will cost much more than a market price and that they will be enriched in this way. It is certain that we have full understanding of the shortened procedure, of the accelerated procedure and of the fact that certain provisions of the Expropriation Act will not apply. But what is being imposed as a serious question, that is, if the "South Stream" society is said to be in possession of seven days from the day of the decision on expropriation, it is a bad provision. It is not said – seven days from the day of the handover to the owner of the exploited immovableity of the solution, for the solution may be made unfortunate to the owner of the immovableity. The owner of the immovable property will not know that such a solution has been made, and it will simply come up one day with machines that will, in the most trivial case, dig up the property, but in those more complex cases, it may tear down the house, the living space, the garages and all the auxiliary facilities of a household. It seems to us that the state has not given enough guarantees what if the payment of the company "South Stream" is not made, and in that part, the company "South Stream" is privileged to other investors, and let's say in paying certain fees because there is an obligation for all state authorities to issue all the necessary acts to the company "South Stream", and the company "South Stream" is left to pay all the necessary fees later, which is not the case for any citizen in any procedure. You can't take any confirmation, permission or any of the state authorities without paying a certain fee first. We're not familiar with the bill, he has a descriptive text section, but we could learn it from the media, from the Internet, etc., about the value of the investment itself, but we don't have confirmation that all the necessary funds are provided to pay off exploited immovableities. We have no doubt that they are secure, but we believe that this should have been stated and we believe that, if one is serious, it is primarily seen as a state project, regardless of what it is a company project, since it is of state interest, the state should give certain guarantees. Then, in the short deadlines, I say, with full understanding of their existence and justification, it seems to us that not all deadlines are precisely regulated and we have submitted certain amendments in that part, in order to specify those deadlines. If we take care of state interests, and we want to be an EU member, in the EU, in addition to institutions and serious states and their impeccable functioning, both the pedestal and the citizen and his human rights and the state's most correct attitude towards the citizen is first and foremost. We believe, since the South Stream pipeline is certainly going through 10,000 catastrian plots, it is certain that it will be found at archaeological sites, first of all, treasure, yes and in this commission which will be organised by the South Stream, it will be necessary to be one of the archaeologists because we can also do damage to the cultural and historical treasures of our country, which we do not think is of any interest to anyone. We've also seen amendments to the other parliamentary groups. I think the understanding of this issue in all MP groups is absolutely complete, that all of this project has been approached in a serious and responsible way. That's what our MP group did. I say, on this agreement that was already concluded in 2008, it seems to me now that we were not the best negotiators here. But in the given atmosphere, it was primarily politically difficult to be against this agreement, and in economic terms, I think it's clear to everyone now and that the Minister has confirmed that we and the neighbouring countries have made the most unfavourable agreement, which means that we haven't negotiated economically. In a desire, to say, to do something good for the state, but not to harm a single citizen, we will in principle support this bill, and in a debate in principle and in particular we will give everything on our part to ensure that the final text of the law is in the interest of both the state and each citizen individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11898	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11899	Let me try to talk you out of it. In view of what you said about the bill itself, and also to reassure Serbian citizens that they can be damaged because we are making this bill, of course, not only do we want to quickly create conditions to build the South Stream, but also that under the awake eye of the state and of course the municipalities, no one is damaged. So our interest is not to have Serbian citizens damaged, and that will certainly not happen. The amount of compensation will be determined according to the tax administration and the municipality will carry out such things. In addition, as you know, we haven't abolished a single fee. What I think is important, which proved that commercial contracts simply couldn't be made, would never have ended that expropriation in that sense. But what the data also shows is that the object of expropriation is going to be the area of about 34,385 hectares, that it's going to go directly around 45, and that actually with that principle of service it's going to be about 8,200 hectares. Therefore, I think this law must be made. Let me tell you, we're not the only country that's made this law, so, and all the other countries that need to go through the South Stream have made a similar law, just for the same reasons. So, to create conditions and to go much faster than it would go in some normal way. One thing that I think is also important, which is when you mentioned archaeological sites, etc. In the spatial plan, it's all recorded. By the way, the data suggests that somewhere around 90% to 95%, everything goes through fields and atoms, so at least there are these objects. What is more important, and that is that the moment the law is passed immediately moves into the implementation of this law so that we do not have a variety of situations in de facto expropriations in Serbia in the previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11900	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11901	Dear Mr. President, dear Madam Minister, fellow MPs and all the citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, we from New Serbia, therefore the New Serbia Parliament Club, believe that when this type of law is on the agenda of the Assembly there are fewer stories that it is good for Serbia. So, that there is no politicisation and that it should be understood that this bill is one, let me call it, an economic law benefiting all citizens of Serbia and the states of Serbia. In that sense, I also understood the very brief opening statement of the Minister, but I would say a few words and a few comments. I'm glad there's no division about gas, energy, or whatever the agreement that our country signed in 2008, seems to me in Moscow, in the Kremlin. I see, and I am particularly pleased that, at least we in New Serbia have not heard from some representatives of some parliamentary groups so far that they will not vote, at least in principle. So, it can be irrefutable about all aspects of the gas arrangement, even the South Stream, whether it could have been different, whether it had to be like this, but it's weak from that. It's time to get to work and move on to the realization of this giant project, and time will show who was right, opponents or supporters of this interstate agreement. One of my colleagues said that I wish Serbia had a 50% stake in it, and I think that's what you said, and I'd really like to tell you, if we had 60%. But since I'm not an economic expert, but still as a national MP, I have enough knowledge, so I can ask a question like this -- which is more favourable, I have 90% in a company that is obviously ahead of bankruptcy, losers, or I have 49%, when it comes to NIS, and these days, I believe that this is the exact data, that this company is recording profits or profits, or as it's already called from 49.5 billion dinars, it's almost 500 million euros. So, speaking of this bill, the New Serbia parliamentary group believes that the proposed law is a concrete step forward towards creating a legal framework for the start of realisation, the construction of this master's pipeline through our country and will therefore support this legislative proposal in the day to vote. In addition, a law on the ratification of a gas arrangement is also adopted in this high house, which obliges the Republic of Serbia to undertake activities that will facilitate the design, construction and use of the South Stream, and a constitutional provision that prescribes that interstate contracts are an integral part of the legal order. As a man, all those who participated in the creation of this energy arrangement with Russia have long convinced me that it is good and useful for the citizens of Serbia, but one of the colleagues, the predecessor of the debate mentioned the individual, the citizen and his interests that we are particularly interested in from New Serbia. So it's about the owners of these 10,000 cadastrian plots that will be bought, folksally speaking. Analyzing the proposal for this law, we from New Serbia are confident that these people will be respected by the owners of these parcels, i.e. having everything forward in mind, as well as the fact that the land for the construction of the pipeline system extends to close to 10,000 cadastrian parcels, as well as existing laws that regulate this area, there was no other solution, except to pass a special law, so this law that we are discussing today that will determine public interests for expropriation and at the same time prescribe a procedure that expropriates urgency. What is absolutely most important from the aspect of the protection of the rights and interests of the owners of the expropriated land is how to determine the compensation. Therefore, this law in Article 16 also confirms that the provisions of the current Expropriation Act in terms of establishing the market price for immovable property as the basis for the payment of compensation are also in force in this expropriation procedure. This procedure has proved to be a safe protection of owners from the arbitrary conduct of investors, even in the case of doubtless state interest. All other provisions of the proposed law go in the direction of creating conditions that are rapidly and efficiently solving any potential external situations that will surely arise in the future, taking into account the size of this project, i.e. the length of its course. If we now ask the ordinary Serbian citizen what he expects, what he has learned from the media, from the messages politicians have given, believe that a large number of citizens see not only that energy benefit, i.e. obtaining energy security and security for Serbia. An ordinary man expects us to get cheaper gas, therefore, that we will not only get gas through Hungary, but also from another part of the world, and it seems to me to be in some EU directives, when we seem to have signed some agreements there and become a member of the energy community in Europe, each country is destined to have gas and energy supplies in two ways. It's not negligible, I really don't want to politicize this because all the discussion seems to me to be going in the right direction today, it's not negligible either. What an ordinary citizen says - where the Russians lower their hoses won't be able to get someone to cross that path, and the path goes well through our country as well. So, I don't want to talk about it anymore, but it's not negligible either. Of course, it's not the subject of this law, but I still needed to say it. For the sake of history and stenograms and an open-source site where all our discussions are presented where citizens can read what they said, I want to say next. So, on December 11th 2007, Aleksandar Alekseyev, then Ambassador of the Russian Federation, presented a proposal for an energy agreement to the state of Serbia. Furthermore, on 13 December 2007, Serbia formed a working group for the negotiations on 22 January 2008, the Serbian government decided to sign an energy agreement with the Russian Federation. Furthermore, on January 25, 2008, Velimir Ilic, then the minister of infrastructure on behalf of Serbia, signed an oil-gas arrangement, and the signing was attended by the then president of Serbia and the then prime minister of Serbia. For the record, as the people say, I am particularly pleased, speaking on behalf of the New Serbia MPs, that today we do not have political divisions on this bill, as one law implementing an energy agreement with the Russian Federation, which says that in some way the political scene in our country matures and that we should all, regardless, accept those draft laws that are useful to our country, for all citizens of Serbia. Dear Madam Minister, I am pleased to say that New Serbia's MPs will support this legislative proposal in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11902	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11903	Thank you very much for your discussion. Just a few things I have to do for the citizens of Serbia, and that's the question of compensation, right now, to say that of all these hectares I mentioned earlier, the right to expropriate, the fee right for expropriation, is going to go to what's called the South Stream, or where the pipeline is going to be built, and that's 45 hectares. Everything else is actually underground and there will certainly be a state to pay for what we're destroying, that's its land, because on that land as it's already determined, one part will be able to sow and work, and the other one will be able to plant trees, and in the third part may not be able to build objects. Everything is set out correctly and none of Serbia's citizens will be damaged by such a draft law. Once again, let me remind you, no matter what we talk about, all this time and about the energy agreement, about percentages and participation, transit fees, but this law is a technical law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11904	The word has Vera Paunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11905	Dear President, Ms. Minister and other members of the government, honourable fellow MPs. The South Stream is probably the biggest project in building our infrastructure in the last 10 years, maybe more. Serbia will gain through 416km of pipelines in its territory on a strategic plan, as a very important courtyard for the important energy. In addition to the opening of new jobs, which are understood and go along with this pipeline, we get a number of other direct and indirect benefits, such as the permanent gas supply of our energy needs, the right to charge gas transit fees across our territory, and thus we remain a more interesting and attractive destination for foreign investors. The size and importance of such a project implies that it cannot be built in a relatively short time, and that all preparations for its long-term construction must be carefully carried out, so that there are no unnecessary delays in construction. That's what this law is all about. This law will organise a special procedure of expropriation and immovableity which will be located on the path of the future pipeline. The route covers a range of 600 metres, the entire length of the pipeline, which means that this belt covers more than 34 thousand hectares on the territory of 10 cities and 22 municipalities. The fact that there are some 10,000 cadastrian parcels on it immediately gives us the right to know what kind of work the departments responsible for solving the problem of property relations on that land are doing. In this regard, it is the right intention of the legislator to speed up the procedure as quickly as possible, by prescribing this legislation to a special expropriation procedure. The carrier of this job will be a limited-responsibility "South Stream" based in Novi Sad, which is 51% in Russia and 49% in Serbian ownership. This company will receive a number of responsibilities in the procedure of expropriation, and the main one will be related to the proposal of immovableity on which complete expropriation, temporary takeover or acquisition of the right of service will be carried out. The administrative procedure itself, which will be adopted by these solutions, will be as simplified as possible, so that the proposal is not delivered on the contrary, and the solution will be taken without hearing parties in the process. The deadline for a solution will be eight days. Also, the essential provision is also related to Article 12, which states that the expropriated land will be automatically considered without the re-purpose procedure as building land, which will also save time needed for the re-design process. It may seem to someone that such proposed legal solutions are the administrative process that will be applied, rather speeding up, that the necessary legal certainty is lost, but on the other hand, we must bear in mind the value and importance of such a project, as well as that the pipeline route is mostly passing away from populated places, and that expropriation will least be affected by residential businesses. In any case, it remains a legal obligation to pay fair market-price cash for expropriated immovableities, and I hope that the state authorities will do everything possible to minimise any failures in the process. Personally, I think that no reason and any problem is insecure against the benefits our country will have after this project, and therefore the PUPS parliamentary group will support all the laws that bring good to all citizens. With great pleasure, and this one on the construction of the South Stream pipeline through our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11906	The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11907	Madam Minister, LSV is for who knows what time in doubt and is thinking about how the agreement with Russia that has really been favoured over the past few years will look and what it will bring to Serbia and, above all, Vojvodina. We have a negative experience of NIS sales. We know how NIS paid off and how much money he has given himself to the Russian Federation in some way and according to this agreement that is signed and according to all works and investments, which will be introduced to the Republic of Serbia regarding "South Stream", we are in great doubt. We are considering why only one country is favored under such conditions and why only investments from Russia really come recently. So, four years after 24 December 2008, when an agreement on the purchase of NIS was signed, and documents on the construction of the South Stream pipeline and the gas storage facility in Banatski Dvor, Russia has many reasons to be satisfied with the work it has done with our country. It certainly is very important for each strategic partnership with Serbia. The partnership should be about deepening, improving Russian-Serbian ties in all principles and continuing joint work on co-operation projects, above all in energy and investment. Given previous experience in co-operation with Russia, only one question is raised, what should Serbia and Vojvodina expect from the announced agreements and how much will it cost us? What I would give the biggest objections to, the agreement is that Serbia is the only country in the region that has formed a joint venture with Gazprom to build, the "South Stream", and that has not happened with any other country and in principle 49:51 in favour of the Russian Federation. In some other countries, in Austria, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Hungary, Greece and Italy, this relationship is half-half, 50-50. Serbia, in no media, could read that it was fighting for this different percentage, which Russia most likely took advantage of. There we can only attribute that it happened, this relationship 49 to 51, that it happened because of these, say, brotherly relations with Russia. That's what experts have warned you many times, but the deal was made to be that way. I really want to express that doubt, does Serbia actually sign various loans, various agreements, at perhaps its own expense because of these brotherly relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11908	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11909	At the very beginning, when you're wondering why the percentages are like this and since you've turned your entire discussion solely towards the agreement, even though today the subject is the draft law, or the bill, that's the question of the previous government, why is the percentage as it is? What I can say about this draft law today is that Serbia definitely needs a second turn of gas flow. I said that 10 years ago and now, because if the country wants to be gassed and if the country is Serbia, as we already have, we have a national gasification plan, even though we have turned to this energy that is certainly both green and energy efficient than what we have, then it is a great shame that we have only one direction of gas flow, especially since we are really small consumers compared to other large consumers. In that sense, the second turn of the gas flow called the South Stream, which is an international project, certainly means to us, as it will mean to us, that we have signed the Memorandum of Construction of another Nish pipeline – Dimitrovgrad, through which one other gas, possibly Azerbaijani or another, will flow, but we will certainly have a diversification of suppliers. So, for Serbia, it's significant from the point of view of its gas policy. Secondly, for every country, whether it is Serbia or any other state, when a certain international pipeline such as this passes, and this is an international pipeline, it certainly provides other types of stability, so from the point of view of the South Stream, it certainly needs Serbia. In a previous period, years ago, another pipeline called Nabucco was discussed. In the end, it turns out whether because of the economic crisis, whether everything that's been going on in Europe, etc., that pipeline has nothing to do with it. That gas pipeline that we already know is going to be built, it's going to be South Stream. When you're talking - why is a country favored? If you call it favoration right now when we talk about South Stream – yes, because they're building South Stream. To make a little joke, but if Greece starts to build South Stream, I mean, "We'll favour Greece." When we talk about South Stream, he's definitely needed. When we talk about the previous period, which since 2008, as negotiated, who negotiated, whether or not, this is a question for those who previously committed government or government and who negotiated in such a way that Serbia did, yes, there is 49%. What I'm saying right now is that, through the talks on transit fees and everything that might be done, we should push the maximum for Serbia to have a better status. I'm sure this ministry will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11910	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Olena Papuga, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11911	You didn't log me out, I didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11912	Here was your name. Okay. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11913	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, at first I would like to point out that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the bill, as it did earlier in the period and supported the agreements that have been made as a prerequisite for the adoption of this law. Why do we support this law, and why did we support earlier agreements? The reason is very simple and simple. We of Unity Serbia believe that building this natural gas transport system will result in all citizens of Serbia and Serbia as a whole. I don't like hearing stories here, asking questions in the system – what will Serbia and Vojvodina get? I can ask the question - what will Serbia, Šumadija and Pomoravalje get, and someone will ask me later - and what will Serbia and southern Serbia get, etc. This is where the whole state of Serbia gets it and all citizens of Serbia get it. By building this international transport system for the transport of natural gas, Serbia is entering a circle of countries that will be protected in a certain way in terms of transporting natural gas. On the other hand, I am sure that we will have financial benefits, because the transport of gas that will go through the state of Serbia is paid, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be fuller, and thus all citizens will feel the indirect or direct benefit of transport, i.e. after the completion of the construction of this natural gas transport system. What we in Unity Serbia, to say a little bit, is creating a dilemma, it's not some big dilemma, it's only in Article 10(3), where society is said to be able to deliver an expropriation solution without providing evidence that it provided money at the level of the market value of immovableity. I am saying this because, in some earlier periods, we have had cases of full or partial or temporary expropriation, to deliver some evidence, even to deliver evidence that money has been provided for compensation of the damage done or for total expropriation to pay the market value, and that sometimes it is not paid at all or paid in some negligible amounts. Therefore, I think it is necessary to make sure that the company still provides secure cash, which will pay off those to whom complete or partial expropriation has been made. In particular, this should be borne in mind that it is about expropriation or land, or perhaps even some real estate and that people remain, or they will be left without their fatherland, grandfatherland, etc. And that they should still be cash-settled and paid for what was taken from them. However, this certainly must not be and will not be an obstacle to the construction of a natural gas transport system South Stream is going on its uninterrupted course. We shouldn't, because we have antagonism towards some countries from a previous period, in a particular case towards Russia, some in this room at least have, to put it as an observation why this is done with the Russians, and it's not done with others? We used to work with someone else, so we were friends with them 50 years back, so we got NATO bombs all over our heads. Therefore, it should not be seen so historically, but should look into the future and watch what Serbia has to do with and what our children and our grandchildren will benefit from after building this system. To conclude, not to repeat what the predecessors said. Once again, be sure and confident that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will always vote for every bill it assesses and considers to be beneficial and beneficial for the benefit of all citizens of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11914	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11915	Thank you. Just for this part you've been commenting on about article 10. So the solution to the expropriation is already deposited or some other payment instrument, or guarantee that there is money, so this would be practically double, in two places, just for that reason, it's not in Article 10. No one will be left without their grandfather or fatherland, more specifically, 45 hectares will be taken away because of the above land, and everything else will be compensated for the fact that this land will certainly not have that quality that it has now that the pipeline is not there. I agree with you, it's good for Serbia to have another direction, and in that sense, it is this draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11916	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11917	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, just to be clear, the LDP supports every investment and we support every effort by the state in the sense that the flight and swings the development of the economy and economy. And it takes this country to reduce that unemployment because every third citizen of this country is unemployed. I don't think there's any dilemma about whether certain legal jobs that have these ambitions should be supported to achieve these positive effects of foreign or domestic investment, anyway. During today's debate, we have heard a lot about this 2008 oil-gas deal and it is clear that all MPs have realized that this is actually about a legal business that started in 2008. This oil and gas agreement is one umbrella for both jobs and for the sale of NIS and for the construction of this "South Stream" pipeline. When we analyse one and the other segments of this oil-gas agreement that has been raised to an international level or to an international agreement, which gives the agreement an automatic priority to other positive regulations in this country, then we can see one important fact, because we already have experience of how the first segment of that agreement actually works. First, it is clear to all of us that this NIS privatisation was, in fact, the sale of NIS to a foreign state company and the sale of a majority part of that NIS. It is clear to all and it is a notorious fact that NIS has been sold for a far lower price than the price to be achieved. However, since the tender was gone, we had no clear indication of what someone else might have offered to buy the NIS. The tender has in fact been avoided by making the international oil and gas deal. It's also clear that the 3% oil rental was found, the rudely low oil rent. It remains current and I think that all MPs who spoke today about the sale of NIS or the agreement have made it clear and determined according to the low oil rent. That oil rent is scheduled to be paid for 30 years. However, when we look at the essence of things in about 10 to 15 years, we will no longer have oil that can be drawn under some optimal conditions, given that oil is currently being sucked into value at a rate of 650 million dollars a year. When we compare the price of NIS at which it was sold and the value of the oil to be exhausted annually, then we can see what kind of business it was done by selling NIS. That tells you enough about the fact that the oil-gas deal is positive for Serbia's interests. Fifty percent of that job was done and done as it was done, and the negative effects of that contract are pretty much negative. I'd add a monopoly NIS has to explore oil and gas. Madam Minister, that monopoly is scheduled to last until 2020. It is currently in Serbia until 2020, in Vojvodina by 2015, with a request for the monopoly to be extended to Vojvodina by 2020. So here's the thing about selling NIS. We need to point that out so we can continue talking about this South Stream pipeline. Several times it was announced that the construction of the pipeline would begin, and then it was delayed and we haven't actually started that construction yet. I note that the oil-gas deal was concluded in 2008. So this is the fifth year since there's been a possibility that some jobs will end that would allow for further work on the pipeline. Then a bill of law comes to parliament to establish public interest and special procedures in the land expropriation process when it comes to "South Stream". It is not enough that it is intended to be in an emergency procedure, but is intended to take effect immediately the next day, when it is published in the Official Messenger. Now there's a big emergency on the agenda about this South Stream. Let me tell you just a few facts about "Gasprom" the majority owner of this society, which consists of majority Russian owners and minority Serbian owner, or "Srbigas". Gazprom made less profit last year by 23% of what was planned and what was achieved last year. In the course of last year, he was removed from the list of 20 of the world's largest corporations. Meanwhile, the price of gas is decreasing, predicting that the price of gas is moving around $366 per 1,000 cubic metres by 2015, although it is previously predicted by the Russian partner that the price of gas will fall much slower. For 2012, the price is often estimated to be $39 and $393 per 1,000 cubic metres by 2015. There are some cracks in power, with regard to the feasibility of this whole job of building the South Stream pipeline. It is not as favourable to this extent as it is presented to Serbian citizens. At first, I pointed out that we are for investment, for energy stability, and there is no dilemma. However, when we look at this bill, several facts become very clear. One of these things is that you provide for a special procedure for expropriation, you provide for specific rules for handling in administrative procedures, and you also foresee rules for the conduct of organs when determining how to pay fees and taxis in these administrative procedures. This is all in Article 1. When you press this proposal, then it becomes clear to you that there are special procedures and specific rules in the administrative procedure when it comes to expropriation. However, in addition to this Article, Article 10(3), which also provides for a rather strange situation, when it comes to compensation, i.e. providing money for real estate owners, you have a situation in fact that the law regulates the way of expropriation in the fastest possible way, favouring the user of expropriation, while losing sight of the interests of the property owner, whose property is subject to expropriation. Therefore, it is very important to say to the public that the expropriation procedure is done in such a way and implemented in a administrative procedure, that it is not previously sent to the owner of the property for expropriation, that the user of the expropriation, i.e. the owner of the property, is not heard by the parties in the administrative procedure, that the solution is made that the execution of that solution is not delayed and that the user of the expropriation is not obliged at all to show that he has stored funds at the level of the market value of the property being expunged. So, you have a situation where, on one side, the user of expropriation has all the help and favoration of the state and you have a citizen who doesn't even have to know that his real estate is in the process of expropriation, which doesn't even have to participate, who doesn't have to receive a fee at the level of market value of that property, which, at just one point after the implementation of that flash of the expropriation procedure, comes into a situation to take away even his property, which is not paid under some market conditions. So, on the one hand, we have a maximum shortened procedure, which is regulated by one lex specialis, because this is a lex specialis and it is a serious political nature, and we have a procedure of compensation that will be extended and left to some future court proceedings, and then this citizen, i.e. the owner of the property, will be able to enjoy a lot of hearings and actually be a participant in this reformed judiciary. Therefore, you extend the payment to a longer period of time, when we know how the courts operate and how these proceedings take place, when any compensation is sought, especially when compensation is asked for by someone who enjoys all possible state support. So this is actually the right state of things when we talk about South Stream. It would be very good for the public to be aware that between 8,000 and 10,000 parcels are exposed to this kind of expropriation. When you multiply it by the number of owners, when you multiply by the number of families that depend on these parcels, you get one enviable number of those that will be hit by this lex specialis. So this is one of the jobs, I'm talking about building a South Stream pipeline, which was concluded, you say, in the interest of Serbian citizens. However, the fact that political elite participated in the conclusion of this legal deal does not give it the right, nor does it, but neither does the current authority to question in any way the fundamental human rights of Serbian citizens, fundamental human rights in respect of the rights of private property and does not give it the right for this government to point out the public interest, and I remember very well when this public interest is in the form of an amendment and supplementation in the Expropriation Act and precisely because of the construction of this "South Stream" and does not give anyone the right to make such a big difference between legal transactions that are concluded and implemented in Serbia, especially in this case, the majority owner of a society that is a beneficiary of the expropriation of a foreign state company. We can't marginalize things. This isn't about a technical store. This isn't about simple implementation of a contract. This is about seriously jeopardising national interest, because the national interest is that there is legal certainty, and with such legal work and the adoption of such a lex specialis, it is hardly possible to provide that kind of security in the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11918	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11919	Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear from the discussions so far that it is a very important law, or a bill concerning the certainly most important project for Serbia, perhaps in this century, at least so far and everything that is about "South Stream" is big, is mega, anyway, as always when it comes to Russia. The figures we've heard say it's a project worth more than 16 billion euros, a project that will allow more than 30 million households in Europe to be supplied with gas and electricity through the South Stream. The length of the pipeline is 2400 kilometers, of which 925 kilometers goes below the surface of the sea. Eight compressor stations will also be built, two of which will be built in Serbia. The part relating to Serbia is worth 1.7 billion euros. So it's definitely the biggest investment in recent history, I think, after Gerdap. The stock is 420 kilometers long. Our construction operation will be in opportunity, and of course everyone else who participates, hires 2,000 people and earns a profit of between 600m and 800m euros. Serbia will have revenues of 200m euros, etc. All that I have stated is that the project is of exceptional, particularly economic, energy, geostrategic, and therefore political importance. All of this could justify the adoption of a law like this, which is a lex specialis, and which suspends a certain part of the law and part of our legal system, shortens the deadlines, speeds up procedures, actually enables one of these projects to be realized. I imagine this law as one broom that goes in front of the pipeline, clears the terrain and allows this project to be implemented in a way and within what is foreseen and that's good. But I want to share here with you and a common dilemma, or thinking that isn't just about South Stream. What about the South Stream if we don't pass a law like this? In what time would it be realized that we don't have such a shortened and accelerated procedure? Surely we'll agree that it would take decades or maybe it would never come true. This is about a common problem that we all have, especially the Government, both these and the previous ones, and perhaps the future, that we have huge bureaucratic barriers, we have no institutional capacities. We're having problems with corruption, local self-government, a disaster, and a whole series of legal solutions and procedures. This is one investment, though large, very significant, but Serbia expects other investments, and other investments do not have this kind of treatment. Once again, this project deserves special treatment. I ask the question – what are we going to do with some other investments, investors? Will we give them a chance to overcome the objective barriers and problems they face in this way? Let's remind ourselves of the Fiat. If we had this kind of treatment for the Fiat, that investment would have gone faster. We have an announcement from Emirat investors, Al Dahra company. Does she deserve a similar treatment? We have a whole series of other investments that are announced and unfortunately some that are being questioned, some investors who have left Serbia in an inability to resolve our galimatias, our bureaucrats and our mazes to realise investments. This law, i.e. the bill of law, has led me to think this way and to the idea that I suggest to the government that, in collaboration with the population of foreign investors, try to find a solution for all those who intend to invest in Serbia, to employ people to give some kind of priority in making a solution, to cut deadlines on this or similar model. Why does it matter? It's important for a simple reason because last year we had a record low inflow of foreign investment. That's only about 135m euros. Some of the investors gave up their investments. Some of them put them off for a better time. Many have complained about problems that we are all aware of, which are the problems of corruption and bureaucracy and complex procedures, misunderstandings, whether at the level of local self-government, ministries or some other institutions. So I want to use your presence as a member of the government to share my thinking with you and ask you – when will the papers begin, do we have an announcement of a specific date or period in which we expect the beginning of these papers? Also, if I remember, this law we're adopting today we announced for the end of last year, why is it delayed? What's also important is the question, and I'm particularly interested in it, is defined in Article 15, but we'll discuss it in particular, the formation of this occasional working body that will monitor the realization. I don't think there are enough operational functions or measures to be taken in case anything is questioned. Once again I want to take advantage of your presence to hear if the deadline is known – when the work starts and this is about the competences of this working body, if you can explain to me – what, apart from monitoring the realization, will it be able to do in case some things do not go in the direction in which they are expected? In the end, I mean I won't use it all the time. The URS parliamentary group supports the adoption of such a bill and considers it justified, with the conclusion that it shows to all of us that we have institutional problems when it comes to the capacity to realise such large projects and investment in general and that we need to make additional efforts to enable other investors to pass more easily and make investment easier. We will certainly support this legislative proposal in the voting day and make our contribution to making such an important investment happen in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11920	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11921	Thank you very much. As for the start of the works, the start of the construction of the South Stream through Serbia, I would say that perhaps some of the announcements were more symbolic. What can be done now is possibly the basis for the compressor cells. I think it's much more important now that after this, among other things, the bill, which I believe we're going to adopt, is that urban projects are being done and all that needs to be done in the municipalities. It's 32 municipalities. It's not a small number. There's a lot of work to be done. As far as starting works are concerned, the government will certainly define the funds within the next 10 days, so there will be enough resources to move forward with the construction of the compressor stations. The commission you mentioned, it is here to oversee the project itself and to be some kind of link between the government, the municipalities and the company itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11922	Dr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11923	Dear President, Madam Minister, fellow MPs, the DSS strongly supports the adoption of this law. The law stems from an interstate agreement with Russia in the fields of oil and gas economy, which was signed in 2008 during the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica. It was supported in the National Assembly with over 220 votes "for" the MPs. The law will allow the construction of the South Stream pipeline to begin through Serbia, which means the start of new investments and the creation of new jobs. The century of coal and wood was the 19th century, the 20th century was a century of oil, but the 21st century was a century of gas. All over the world, there is a strong rise in energy demand. The estimates of all analysts in the world are such that the need for energy will increase by 30% over the next 20 years. Of these, 50% will be in developing countries, and only in the EU dependence on imports of energy will increase by 20% by 2030. The largest trend in growth is recorded in the production, i.e. the consumption of natural gas, which has been estimated to be the energy of the future because of two things. One is a relatively low price, and the other is not less important is high environmentality. The gas will leave oil behind in 2050. We often hear, especially in the last ten years, how energy should be drawn from renewable sources. That was the theme of hundreds of conferences. It was the topic of election speeches by many politicians in the world, but because of their unpredictability and inability to obtain large amounts of energy, it was thought that gas would be the main energy in the 21st century. The question of renewable energy is always useful, but because of the economic crisis that has taken place in the world, and we know that renewable energy sources are the most expensive, this topic has been put on the other side. Look, President Obama's campaign has recently been completed. It's his second campaign. In the first campaign of 2008, he spoke of renewable energy sources, permanently, more than 300 times, and in this campaign, US President Obama mentioned renewable energy sources only once, but spoke very much about gas. What are the geopolitical implications of energy security for the Balkans? Unlike oil that can be transported by various routes, gas is often transported by pipelines. Gas pipelines usually go through several states, and these countries have their own interests. This means that gas is a very sensitive product of political, geographical and security influences in the transport chain. We can conclude from that that gas is a geopolitical commodity. With Serbia and other countries participating in the project, Serbia is becoming the most important Euro-Asian node on the South Stream path. It is a factor that will definitely affect the future of the entire region, which Serbia can benefit greatly from. Today, superpowers in the world are called countries that, apart from nuclear weapons, have energy, large sources of energy. A few days ago, the Munich Conference, famous, was concluded, and the last ten years were the most discussed in the conference about terrorism and nuclear weapons. For the first time, a few days ago, one of the main topics at the Munich Conference was go-political change in energy. Right after that conference, former US intelligence chief John Dutch said there was a new revolution going on in the world that called the energy revolution. This tells us that Serbia cannot wait and should make its long-term strategy on energy security. As for the South Stream pipeline, many forget that the project is a joint project of Gazprom, but also three major European companies: Italy's ENI, France's EDF and Germany's BASF. This is with the North Stream project that was jointly built by Russia and Germany's largest pipeline in the world. He has no competition. As Mrs. Minister Nabucco once said, he had a perspective, but the project gave up because of lack of funding, due to the economic crisis, but also because of a lack of gas. The South Stream will spread from the "Ruskaya" compressor station on the coast of the Black Sea to Bulgaria, under water at a depth of more than two metres, and in the length of 925 km, and then take a land route of 1,453 km. Construction of the pipeline was started in December last year. Full capacity of 63 billion cubic metres is expected by 2018. A 411km pipeline will pass through Serbia. The expected transport through Serbia is 40.5 billion cubic metres annually. The construction of the pipeline itself will be accompanied by large investments, greater than a billion euros, perhaps several billion euros, will be monitored directly and indirectly by thousands of jobs, while the existence of a long-term pipeline will allow the Republic of Serbia to develop its economy stable and sustainable, as gas, except as energy, can use enterprises in production, as raw materials, as it does in Germany. Close to two billion euros will cost the construction of a pipeline through Serbia. About four billion euros could be paid through gas transport fees over the next 25 years. Once again, several thousand workers will be employed. Of course, Serbia is providing its citizens with energy security. At a time when energy becomes the most valuable commodity on the market, Serbia provides stable gas supply from Russia. Russia is the one who currently owns the world's largest gas reserves. Again, Russia owns the world's largest gas reserves, and that's what really gives Serbia security, primarily energy, and in other words economically, for the next 50 years. It should be said that Republika Srpska's energy security is also growing, as one arm is being separated into the 250km-long Republika Srpska, which will allow the security of Republika Srpska's energy. Repeatedly, Serbia is becoming the most important Euro-Asian hub here in the Balkans. Of course, on the other hand, Serbia must do everything to ensure the physical safety of this pipeline, because Serbia, where virtually all EU countries are, will depend on the security of supply of almost all of Europe. We were lucky, we had brains, wisdom, and Serbia got this big deal. Strategic partnerships in energy, in the last few years, have happened in a completely different way than it has happened in the 20th century. I'll give you one example. Until recently, it was unimaginable that Russia's largest oil company, Rosneft, had a foreign shareholder. Today, Rosneft bought the joint venture of the Russian company TNK and England's British Petroleum, and Rosneft bought the company, became the largest oil company in the world. Now it's 19.25% in Rosneft in the hands of British Petroleum. These are the new strategic alliances in energy, although British Petroleum was a great pressure from many major forces not to enter into this biggest job that has ever been done in Russia, which is worth 63 billion euros, although there have been great pressures on the UK not to sign that contract, i.e. British Petroleum, British Petroleum is in the interest of its state and its shareholders, its companies signed this biggest contract and became almost 20% co-owner of the world's largest oil company. This shows that there is no more cold war, that there are no more clean relations, that only EU countries can make contracts between themselves. Here, this is the best example of how the largest Russian company and the largest English company are building strategic alliances. Of course, I would like to add that by entering this project Serbia shows that it is possible to be part of major energy projects in Europe, although it is not yet an EU member. To conclude, the South Stream pipeline together with the North Stream pipeline is a project that ensures Europe's energy security. In Serbia, I will repeat myself, he does not know that, besides Gazprom in the South Stream, Italian ENI shareholders, French EDF and German BASF are. All these three companies are practically absolutely supported by their governments, because they are giant not only in their countries, but also in the EU. By entering this project, Serbia shows that it is possible to be part of major energy projects even though it is not an EU member, so political neutrality is something that is certain in the future, given the relations with the Russian Federation, the best for Serbia. Of course, once again, I would like to say that this very project shows that the proper definition of a government, a strategic commitment, when not meant by a party, but only when thought in the long term, strategically, can bring enormous benefit to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11924	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11925	Dear colleagues, a lot has been said and I will watch not repeat myself. What I'm going to say first is that the SPS parliamentary group will support another step of the Assembly and another step of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it doesn't matter in which composition, that the largest post-war energy project in Serbia, which is the "South Stream", is built right. Eventually, we may be able to compare the construction of Gerdap infrastructureally with this, but I think the effects of the South Stream will be very significant and very large. So, the SPS will back it up, like we've been supporting all along. Today I see much more political consensus on this matter than it was in earlier years, and it makes me happy. Even in the means of public information, from this new government, there is a much smaller communication noise in understanding what the South Stream is and what its consequences are. I'll see if I don't repeat myself, but there are some things I have to say and I'll talk a little bit wider than you expected. Yes, the company is 51/49, but when we negotiated "South Stream", unlike the NIS, there are two sides in the South Stream Treaty, they call it "the more notorious", which means that a Russian partner can't do anything without agreeing to "Serbia", or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is 51/49, it is inherited and it is that it is not the responsibility of this government, but they can spend 250 000 euros and stop there. For everything else, the partners in the project have to agree. Did we negotiate right or wrong? We could've been better off around NIS and there's the minister right and the government's right. NIS and oil rent, when you look at the profits of NIS, it mostly stems from the exploitation of the one from the country, not from market circumstances and the like, but it's not my theme. Then we could figure out that it's bad and that gas finds instead of "Serbiagas" stayed at NIS. But when we talk about the South Stream, the South Stream will put Serbia in a position of a truly energy hub. So, 40 billion cubic metres will go through Serbia, the South Stream gas for Croatia will go for Serbia, gas for Republika Srpska will go from Serbia, for the BiH Federation, we will do an interconnection towards Bulgaria and we will do an interconnection towards Romania. What else is important to understand? Gas, apart from having ecological characteristics, it's not just energy to burn it in heat and heat up, gas is basic raw material for a lot of things in the chemical process industry. It's an example of "Metanol-Serretin combination" and "Azotara Panchevo" and maybe tomorrow some other facilities. Furthermore, what's important and where I think there's going to be a big race in the region, because the Russians know what they're doing, they're going to offer to build gas stations. It's already been done by Cermak in Croatia. It's already been offered by Republika Srpska. He already wants the Federation of BiH to work one at Tuzla, and in Serbia, at least in some way, we should work at least four. So this isn't just a billion and 700m euros for the South Stream and it's not just a valve in Serbia, as some Serbian nationalist says, because that valve we won't control, this is a huge developmental opportunity. Add to that "Corridor 10", "Corridor 11", add to "Corridor 7" – Danube, and what will you get? It's the key to this story. There's the benefit of this story. You will receive infrastructure with a favourable tax policy from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is already present. I don't agree with this payment just for strangers, but never mind, so be it. It will actually be an opportunity for Serbia to re-industrize. There is no forward in Serbia unless we lead Serbia to re-industrialisation. So what Minister Mihajlovic said -- great energy security -- we have a new direction, significant cost-evaluation of transport, at least three times less than through Hungary, so we at least took into the banking of the project, security in the sense that Ukraine can't blackmail us, the fact that Serbia can build up to five billion cubic underground gas storage sites, and you know that the pipeline would work in a technical sense. Now here when it comes to whether or not the "South Stream" works are started – well, Banatski Dvor is the first "South Stream" facility in Serbia. Later on, I'm gonna go public with what's going on. So we can compete with the primate of Hungarian warehouses. If they're fighting between each other, it's not that important. So we can have both warehouses and gas power plants and the chemical-processing industry and a major inflow of capital in these investments over the next three or four years. That's how I look at the South Stream project. We can give you more details as much as you want, but we have important questions ahead of us. This was initiated by counterpart Markicevic, and the ministry headed by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic is fighting well. It's a matter of gas price. Systemic matter, which is that the market is at least regulated by law, or liberalised, has already been done. But we don't have real competition. All the gas sources that can reach Serbia right now are actually Russian sources. It's hard for us to buy on the video, so it's just like that, maybe some small amounts to intervene. We're hardly able to make it off the Western exchanges in Hungary, we don't have that kind of money. The gas from Central Asia, as you know, can only come from Russian transport systems for now. A big story and communication noise in the Serbian newspaper is so-called "Shell Gas" or "Slanc's Gas," that's what Americans have now invented technology and everyone's hoping that America will now set up gas ships in Europe and gas prices will fall terribly, as the LDP gentlemen have spoken. It won't be like that. First, Serbia must observe what is happening in the world today. A dollar is a leading currency, but it's not the only currency. There are also BRIKS countries, growing economies -- Brazil, Russia, India, China. Russia has diversified its budget revenues, not only to Western Europe, but also to build pipelines for China and oil pipelines for China. It reduces the pressure on its Siberia where the resources are, which means Russia will no longer be so simply interested in just selling gas from brotherly relations here. Will Americans or those who get tech to produce go gas appear as exporters? I'm sure it won't take a short and mid-term. On the other hand, if we look at global currents today in the economy, I'm not sure that the rich Western countries will just, just the choir fighting Russia, want to be exporters of cheap gas because they too need to be cheap in a global game of their energies, so that their economy is competitive. I didn't say this because the MPs don't know it or because they don't understand people who do it professionally. There's a lot of pressure in our public on every job with Russia. A serious lobby group is working against it. For Nabucco, we knew it wouldn't be. There is no Southern corridor, which is also an EU project. I'm a Serb, I'm not a Russian, but I choose rationally. In perspective, you should expect, I don't think there's going to be any brotherly relations at all, but I'm looking at where there's capital. It needs to be sought in Russia, it needs to be sought in China, and it needs to be sought in Arab countries, or in their banking systems. I can tell you, there will be loans from the West, but it will be difficult for the Serbian economy, as it is, uncompetitive, if we have it at all, to go out just like that on the overcrowded Western market. What we're talking about today, no one mentioned today. It's a special trade agreement with Russia. No one knocks it down. How much is our economy able to compete on a very selective market? These are the questions we have to answer. So, I'm going back to the theme of the South Stream itself. Here was the question of whether or not we would pay off every man whose plot was passed. I've got maps here. If anyone wants to, I can make them available, she's safe with the Ministry. It's gonna be minimal, there's not even a building, there's no salsa there. It's a temporary expropriation. There won't be any building land where the pipeline passes, since that's not the case. In Belgrade, he has to work at 16 bars, not on high pressure, to be in the city. This will be a 100-bar pipeline with satellite surveillance, which will have control next to it the most modern, but very little will be violated by what would be someone's grandfather and property. I'm responsible for telling you -- we have this project here and the cost of rentability, all the funds will be found, paid in time, and no one will be harmed. Nowhere where we've done anything on this subject so far, no one's been damaged. Why does he have to do this? I don't see that, apart from speed, we've violated anything in existing legislation or property owners' rights. It's got to go fast. I'll give you an example. When we were supposed to sell the Serbian glass factory, we solved property-legal relations for two years. The Banatian Court, when we got a warrant to do it and fill it up, we did it in eight months, and we booked it for two years. Now that we've done the highway bypass up at Novi Sad, E-75, again it's the same story, the pipeline-oil pipeline, we haven't solved the archaeologists yet, nor the expropriation. You can't do a project like that, where all you have to do is locate in the next year is 350 thousand tons of pipe diameters a foot and a half. Do you know which one is logistics, in a traffic sense, and in a safe sense, the challenge to locate it, to keep it safe, to keep someone from cutting off the pipe that's going to work on that pressure, to drive, that he can get three pipes on the truck, that he can get ships. They're currently in progress, when it comes to the South Stream, so-called "South Stream." The final round, I want to answer the question that I am most responsible for – when will the "South Stream" begin? I gave information that it would be October 20th, they trusted me in both the Ministry and the Government and the President of the Republic, but they told me to start on December 20th. We can really start somewhere at the compressor station. I think the 28th director of Gazprom Alexei Miller will come if they confirm it by the cabinet of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. Maybe it'll be a chance to get something symbolic started. We're talking about this year. Don't worry, it won't be next year, this year, the 28th will be over. By the end of March of the month we will be working on so-called long tenders and they will be called out. They're potato cells and pipes. By June of the month, and we have already recorded in Serbia the possibility of a construction operation. We have a gentlemen's agreement that must be subdued under everything that involves international standards and that our companies compete, that all of the services or God's equipment, but there's not much of the equipment that Serbian companies can do within this project, do Serbian companies. Out of a billion and 700 million, I've calculated here, since some have sent me messages, up to 30%, that's 510 million stakes, that's how much it takes to give us and Gazprom, out of half, 51%-49%. This means that in the next two years, Serbia should give about 250 million as its stake. The other billions and 190 million, as long as it remains, will be loans that we have already received confirmation from Russian banks that they will finance. We're also expecting confirmations from some Western banks. So, fund it entirely. The projects will be worth 25 years from now. The initial figure collected by the government of the Republic of Serbia, based on taxis of about 120m dollars, in full capacity of around 200, is 8%. At 40 billion, it's three comas a few billion cubic metres of gas and the company, for example, should make a total of about 500 million euros for the next ten years. I made a small comparison, which we might talk about some other time. We spent about 800 million dollars on social policy, which was unselective. How much we helped the economy, how much we helped the households, I don't know. Whether it was selective or unselective, that's what we'll see when these social cards come in, how unfairly we've spent on such things. Many companies, unfortunately, went into restructuring, and still to keep jobs we have to give them gas. So, one social policy that is not sustainable on a long-term basis. If we spent $800 million on these last five years and if we stick to the agreement that there is no additional borrowing, the Ministry of Finance, and if we manage to establish market circumstances, it'll cost about that much of a country. This means that in four years we will pay off everything we dropped through the chimney or give to maintain non-existent jobs or poorly privatised companies through the South Stream project. It's just a cab. Maybe that comparison isn't much. When the South Stream is done, it'll be eight shares. It is believed that a 50km stock, a well-equipped company with 650 workers, can equip, set up in six months, provided it's a good logistics. So it's going to be hired, depending on the way we work, whether in one year or in two years, at least two thousand people, and maybe three, four thousand, when you look at it indirectly. In the end, according to the project we have, in South Stream, as a firm like that, they're going to be working around 500 people. I'm just saying, we'll see what's going to be done during the visit, just so much time I have, that there's currently been pre-investment research done, that somewhere around four thousand people whose parcels we have to go through, we've already visited them, we've paid some small money to get through their plot, to see if they're fruit trees, orchards, to see how much that's going to cost in perspective. So over four thousand parcels have already been made, and there will be only one expropriation. A general project has been developed, the Serbian State Audit Committee's positive conclusions have been received in a justification study, a general project. Gazprom and Serbiaagas jointly established a plan of measures to provide conditions for a final investment decision in 2012 to build the South Stream pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which we did in fact. Contracts on the construction of technical documentation have been signed, complexes of engineering research carried out, the clearing of territory at the site of engineering research on exclusive subjects, the preparation of a spatial plan of a specific purpose area also done and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the resolution of property-law issues. I want to tell you that, except for the demining of all other businesses, they do Serbian firms. A harmonised project base document has been drawn up and I sincerely hope that the GIPR consortium will also receive the South Stream project from the special building "Srbigas", which is how we conduct the talks. Public insight has been carried out, so this special plan has been adopted which we need, a plan has been developed and established not for the implementation of the South Stream project on the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the period 2013 to 2016, when it will all be over. Otherwise, I want to tell you that there will only be two compressor stations on Serbia's territory, i.e. in two places the gas will be removed. One will be at Paracino's, the other will be on the mountain of the Greek-gentlemen. It is currently working to develop an additional plan to go along that highway from Nis, down towards KIM and possibly consider whether it has the potential to go towards Macedonia as well. Now, if I didn't read you any further, I just wanted to tell you something. If someone asks you if you're working on a South Stream project in Serbia? Yes, it is very serious with the full support of the government of the Republic of Serbia, with full support from the ministry, state guarantees are provided, communication with Russian partners is good. The gas price question is going to be a serious question, and since I have ten seconds left, I just want to say, I think we're about to sign a deal where we're going back to partnership 50-50 percent. I expect long-term contracts to be signed on the visit of the CEO of Gazprom. I want to tell you that we are currently on an arbitration hearing in Zurich with the FGSZ, a Hungarian transporter who has unwarrantedly charged high costs. I expect a reduction in costs through Hungary, and I hope that with the initiatives that will be launched by the government of the Republic of Serbia on this plan and bilateralally differently, we will also have resolved these issues that have been, as such very often, a target and the way in which "Srbigas" was attacked, sometimes the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but essentially everything that was to be done with the Russians, everything was controversial. The market is liberalised, all who have surpluses of gas are welcome to Serbia. I apologize, Mr. President, for taking two minutes more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11926	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11927	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ms. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the adoption of this law ensures the creation of conditions for the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream". The need to pass this law is quite undeniable and the DS will vote for the adoption of this law provided that the way in which the expropriation is implemented and how the building permits for the implementation of this project are agreed with the Constitution and the existing laws of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, DS submitted a series of amendments to this bill. I want to highlight the provisions that are controversial to us. Article 6 provides that an expropriation proposal is not to be submitted to the applicant's opponent. The basic principles of democracy tell us that every man has the right to vote and that every man should have a chance to plead, especially about something concerning his personal property, even in constitutional provisions, the right to property of Article 58 is guaranteed. Furthermore, Article 6 provides that the competent authority shall adopt a solution without prior hearing of the parties. So we have a situation so that we don't allow our citizens to make a statement about the proposal for expropriation, and then we also make a solution without deigning them to listen to them. We have submitted amendments allowing citizens to plead on an expropriation proposal. Article 10(1) of the proposed law provides that the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism shall issue information on the location in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction without submitting a copy of the plot plan. So the idea is to issue information on the location without knowing which location information is being issued. Again and here I am calling for a violation of the Constitution, which is contained in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is forbidden discrimination. So this member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen that all are equal before the Constitution and by law. I'm asking you, are any of them more uniform or equal? Why are some not subject to the Law of Planning and Construction, and others apply? Why is it important and necessary for some to submit a copy of the plot plan in order to obtain information on the location, and some can get information on the location and without submitting a copy of the plot plan? Article 2 of the same article provides that a local authorisation may also be issued without submitting a copy of the plot plan and without a copy of the underground installation catalogue. I'm asking you, if we amneste the South Stream with this kind of suggestion from a possible damage that's going to happen, for example. By tearing out optical cables or by disrupting high-voltage underground cables, who will bear the damage? Because if we give them a location permit without establishing which underground installations exist on the plots so that we can secure existing facilities from harming them. Article 3(3) of the same Article provides that Article 135(1), etc. it may provide an expropriation solution without providing evidence that the company has provided cash at the level of the market value of the immovable property. I'm asking you, is this about a proposal for nationalisation or expropriation? So, Article 6, we predicted that our citizens could not be declared, that they could not be heard, and in Article 10, we allowed the South Stream to take away their property without a clear guarantee that the property would be paid. We have submitted amendments to these provisions of the law and we want them to protect our citizens from nationalization and we want to give them a fair expropriation. Article 15 of the same law provides that the government will form an occasional working body. I'm asking you, is the realization of the South Stream going to be occasional and continuous, or are we just going to keep working on it, or are we just going to follow the course of realization from time to time? We have submitted the amendment that this working body must be permanent and that this working body must also submit reports to the National Assembly on the implementation of this project. Also, the same member is scheduled for the working body to be representatives of energy, finance, construction and spatial planning ministries. With all respect to experts from these ministries, we think it is necessary to include top experts in the monitoring of the implementation of such a project. That is why we predicted that representatives of the University of Belgrade Civil Faculty should be involved in this working body. So once again I want to recapitulate, the DS will vote in favour of this law provided that the way in which the expropriation is carried out and the way in which the building permits for the implementation of this project are adopted is in line with the Constitution and the existing laws of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, we're referring to the Law on Planning and Construction. So, we need to allow our citizens to make a statement about the proposal for expropriation, if we can't because of the procedural stuff, to let them all be heard. We must provide them with a fair fee for the property we take from them, because it has been declared public interest and we must assume that the law applies to the "South Stream" just as it applies to all other people who want to invest in the Republic of Serbia, that the Law on Planning and Construction is fully applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11928	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11929	Just a few notes. First, when you mentioned this working body, the name of the working body, it's according to the Government Act. So there are precisely certain occasional working bodies, so that's the name, that's the word occasionally, that's what you're talking about. Of course it will work during that period of expropriation determined by this law that I hope we will adopt. When you talk about citizens, I've mentioned it a few times here, and that's why I wanted to answer now. So no one's gonna get hurt. Even that 10th term you mentioned, I also explained it in the previous period. I'll explain it again. It has already been specified in one of the previous members that the company "South Stream" must show by certain guarantees or other payment instruments that it is capable of making all payments. The second thing, the tax administration estimates, as you know, and the municipalities do it. When you mentioned underground installations, etc., it's almost 90% agricultural land. So there's almost no such type of installation. At the very end, and perhaps I should have told you at the beginning, this law determines that it is a public interest, that we are building a "South Stream" and that it is a public interest, that is, the speed to do, that is, to prepare everything we need to be able to build a "South Stream". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11930	Replica, MP Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11931	I have no doubt the South Stream will provide funds. Why don't we put that in the law? So, if they're already going to provide evidence that they're being provided, why are we allowing them in Article 10(3) that without providing evidence that they've provided money at the level of the market value of immovable property, they can apply for a building permit? Mr. Bajatovic said the funds will be found. I'm quoting it, which means she's not being provided right now. He also said and I quote him, it takes a whole year to drag a pipe to a construction site. I don't think it's a rush. So, if it takes a year to bring the pipes to the site, we have the opportunity to fully comply with the Law on Planning and Construction and without shortening procedures and without the privilege of "South Stream", in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, we issue all the necessary solutions and building permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11932	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11933	For the solution to expropriation, the company had already to show its evidence. So that was double proof. Another thing, when you say it's not a rush, I'll tell you that only a hearing would take at least a year and a half. Take and divide, etc., do pure mathematics over 30,000 plot owners etc., without talking about situations where you always have one percent that can or doesn't have to make a problem. I'm going to give you an example, let's say, of the construction of a simplest small hydropower plant in the Bolec municipality. In the municipality of Bolvac property over land and other heirs, there are some 150, five hectares in question, five years of providing the country, one hectare standing, and the biggest problem is that one hectare, and the others have agreed with those who build a small hydropower plant. So, for five years, they've been agreeing on it. In order to avoid such things and not get into a situation where 80% of all things might be done and 20% of all problems remain, for that reason we have made a proposal for this law and for it to be done as soon as possible. Of course, it wouldn't be possible to finish in a year. So, if we let go as you say, then we could talk about age, between five and seven years to expropriate land for building South Stream. We can't wait five to seven years. Once again, Serbia is not the only country that has passed such a law. So all these countries that are signatories to the construction of South Stream have passed laws like this and similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11934	Replica, MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11935	From what you've exhibited, I've concluded that you had no insight into our amendments. I ask you to read them, because we have accurately and accurately predicted that we give citizens the opportunity to plead without their statement affecting the length of the expropriation. We simply allow people to say what they think about what their assets are going to be taken from them, and on the other hand, we have predicted to these same amendments that their statement will not affect that length of the expropriation will be more than, for example, six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11936	Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, and until the search is completed, which is under way because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11937	We're going back to work. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11938	The Honorable President, Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, I am sorry that the last word of the Parliament's largest group on the draft of this law is practical in this environment, but one aspect that I do not think any proposings have given is essential – what does the bill give us? So, for declaring public interest and obtaining all documents for the establishment of such an infrastructure project. We also presented Mr. Bajatovic and the ministry today on the state's position on such important projects that began in some previous state. The first framework has been since 2008, when the first agreement between Serbia and Russia was signed. Then, we had a piece that was defined by article 194. The constitution, which refers to work in general by projects covering infrastructure and those covering the part relating to the public interest of the state, when it comes to such projects. What is important to say, which is that the jurisdiction of several ministries is above this project and that is now at the moment the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Natural Resources, Mining and Spatial Planning, as well as the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism. So, just how much responsibility these ministries have and how many areas are covered, as well as the Ministry of Finance, of course, without which no strategic project in this country can be adopted unless it is covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, shows us the importance of this project. When we talk about infrastructure projects, we have this financial and economic aspect that we've talked a lot about and heard about, that's 1.7 billion euros as investments, about the possibility of projections of revenues at an annual level, and even up to 500m euros, if that part is precisely defined by this price of compensation that will only be the subject of some future negotiations. What is important, and today no one has mentioned, and this is the social aspect, i.e. the social contribution of such infrastructure projects. When we talk about infrastructure projects in general, before we even start building such important energy facilities, then it is the so-called "pre-investment study" or a study that, in some ways, the Russian-Serbian partners, i.e. the joint venture already took over those actions and did. When we talk about this price that some parliamentary groups have always put under question, it is at the beginning of a pre-investment study as one projection, as one forecast of how much it can be. Since we have projects starting in 2008 and coming in 2013, so we have a projection that should end in 2015 and that gas stations should be built in 2016 and 2017, you will agree that this affects the investment environment that is changing. After all, the economic situation in the capital market is changing, and therefore this price of two to five dollars, I don't know about a thousand cubic meters, a hundred kilometers away, always within that range of maximum and minimum. What are we supposed to do? The minister very well suggested that we actually have important negotiations with the Russian partner, namely that the "South Stream" as a joint venture should still stand, in terms of the viability of this project. What is the social contribution of this project is that the direct investment itself and the rise of this level of economic growth, which is, in fact, important to us, because in the region we know that economic growth between up to 1.5, but in countries that are former SFRY, namely Russia 5%, the most interesting thing is that this branch will pull development and those non-profitable activities, means, non-productive entities in society. That's the most important part for us right now, because we're small, and that's education. So, contact with new technologies, learning, mutual exchange in this technical and technological sense, then improving this complete education system, as well as high education, improving the health system and improving, ultimately and developing culture, because somewhere culture is put to the last place, but it is the result of one country's economic growth. Why are we talking about this in the end as one of the most important aspects? Because little is said when it comes to investment that there is this so-called social contribution of every infrastructure project other than this economic one. It is economical and most important because it goes if you have an increase in investment, you reduce poverty, you have an increased degree of standard for citizens of Serbia, but you also have this part of the aspect that the minister himself has highlighted, which is the degree of energy security, i.e. the degree of security in the region. With this project, Serbia would indeed have one comparative advantage over countries in the region, referring to the former SFRY, and could also be part of a joint project of the route that detached from in 2010, during last government, which is why people south of Nis somewhere and regret that part of the route has not passed. It's probably going to be part of the subject in future discussions. Interestingly, now that part of the route, which may have been bypassed at this time, has become very interesting for some other investors not related to Russia's economy but rather related to the EU. With this project itself, we are opening up to ourselves many other opportunities for business and some new projects in the field of energy that I think Serbia has great advantages at the moment. In the end, I would say that there is practically one political meaning, one message that Serbia can co-operate not only with countries in the region, but can also co-operate with large countries, with large economic markets in a way that is only as full partners if it proves to be a serious partner in the whole business. Mr. Bajatovic explained on what principle practically all this works, but given that many things are not yet defined by these contracts on us now as the state to prove to be the most responsible and that perhaps all of what is a 51:49 ratio with a fee system, with a system of work control defined by these legal proposals, that for the realisation of this project the Government will form a working group in which they will be representatives of these ministries in which they will be responsible, shows that we can essentially return a lot to the 50-50 ratio. In that context, I think that if we prove to be serious partners in the negotiations, then we can also seriously count on the support of large markets, i.e. large economic forces. Russia has defined its relationship with the EU by making a partnership with the strongest, most economically developed country in the EU, which is Germany. I believe that according to this principle, Russia, if it can make good relations in the region, in general, the Balkans, will not have a problem either Germany or the EU itself, nor Russia, the problem that it can co-operate with Serbia on an equal basis, especially when it comes to the price of gas. In the end, it should be said that this law opens up that investment environment so far, the paperwork we talked about going very slowly, is being solved in the most efficient way. What is most important and what most EU members have always insisted on is to show whether it is in line with the Stabilisation and Accession Agreement, and it has proved indeed that this law is in line with this. We think it's simply in a way that we've gone beyond these limits here to divide whether it's going to be an energy policy of the East or the West. We are simply in such a geostrategic position, a state that politically and economically sublimates all interests, on the one hand, in an economic sense, and in another sense can deal with such challenges which are indeed one of the biggest concerns of all those involved in such a process. It's a good thing this bill came on the agenda. It's a good thing the ministry can handle all the jobs, since there's a lot of jurisdiction on this project. So, not only in relation to the Ministry of Energy, but also to natural resources and construction and urbanism and spatial planning. Due to such widespread competences, energy is, in fact, the fundamental proponent of this law and should be practically the bearer of such initiatives that will protect the public interest, which it does. On the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, we received a promise from DS, which practically started a job in the past as a ruling party, to vote in favour of the bill, because it practically opens up opportunities for such an infrastructure project to be in the state interest, to support independent of which is now the political party in position or opposition. We thank them for this and hope that the following projects, which are of the same interest, will be monitored and supported in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11939	Thank you. We are now moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11940	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this bill is concerned, my colleague Mirko Chikiriz has already said some general things, so I won't repeat them this time. Of course, we said that the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group would support and vote in favour of this bill, but it must also point to some of the things that we believe can be changed, which we have done in that direction by submitting the amendment. We've filed a total of six, and I hope you'll be able to read them. In Article 1, I must quote it, it is stated: "This law regulates the determination of public interest, the specific procedures of expropriation and the procurement of documentation to implement the construction of the natural gas transport system "South Stream", the specific rules for the conduct of administrative procedures in order to implement the construction of the said system and the specific rules for the conduct of the body in determining how fees and taxis are paid in these administrative matters". Reading this article. The bill is often referred to as "special" – special procedures, special rules, which may in some ways lead to the conclusion that these basic procedures are either not enough or are not good enough for the implementation of such a large project in which Serbia is engaged in the case of the "South Stream". By reading this text of the law, we see that these special procedures are introduced with a view to making business easier for the company "South Stream" doo as a user of expropriation, and very few legal provisions are those that go in favour of the owners of exploited immovableity or even in some cases and lead to a completely unfavourable position. However, we must go in order and present some things to our citizens, because I think they need to know who actually is the beneficiary of the South Stream expropriation doo. The founder of this company is the company "South Stream" Serbia AG, which, according to public reports, founded "Gasprom" and "Srbigas" in Switzerland. According to a copy of the Agency for Business Registers, its assembly consists of the Board of Directors, one of which is director Dusan Bajatovic, while another Russian citizen, so the signings of both directors are necessary for increasing payments. The main activity of this company is pipeline transport. So this is about a legal person who normally operates in the market, who has nothing to do with a public enterprise. It is a private company of strategic interest that invests its money and wants to ensure for itself maximum guarantees that what it buys that no one will take away from them and that no one will stop them from doing so. However, what our parliamentary club finds worrying is that the state is nowhere in any way behind such a huge investment. There is no guarantee of a state if this project fails or if this company does not pay the money to the citizens. In this regard, it should also be envisaged that in order to ensure the overall project, the Republic of Serbia gives some kind of guarantee. This company will most likely be an investor of the pipeline itself, which means it will hire those producers itself and determine. This is a chance for new jobs, but I think the chance for a better or wider domain of corruption is also a chance. As I have already said at the presentation, this bill makes it much more difficult to meet the company itself than it does to meet citizens who are the owners of the immovable property that should be expropriated. This is seen in a member in which a reduced administrative procedure is laid down and the possibility of the opponent of the motion to declare the proposal for expropriation and to hear it, which provides for the provisions of the Expropriation Act. What has also been neglected is the neglected fact that expropriation is always a two-party procedure and that each party has the right to do so without the economically weak side having to and should never be deprived of the rights or rights achieved. I think some of the provisions of this law can lead to unnecessary situations. That is the provision of Article 9. Proposal for a law under which society acquires the right to take possession of immovable property within seven days of the date of its decision on the proposal. It raises a fully justified question - how can the owner charge a fair fee when the user immediately enters his property and destroys everything he has, and the user is entitled to such a thing according to the provisions of this law. There is an absurd situation even if the delay proposal is reached by the owner, so that it can be fully justified to come along with the solution by the user, along with the demolition machines. The main shortcomings are that the expropriation user does not have to provide evidence that it has provided money at the level of the market value of immovableity when supplying documentation for the issue of a building permit. We can only hope there won't be any inconvenience in the realization of this whole project. The deadlines in the administrative procedure have been shortened and have been shortened in order to increase efficiency, but what is not foreseen is that it is not a clear start of the calculation of deadlines. The fees were left for payment after receiving the necessary acts, which is why the user of the expropriation is completely detached from the system that exists with us, which is to pay the tax first and only then to obtain the requested act. In this way, the law provides for freedom and that freedom which would allow abuse by the users themselves, since protection is not provided in the event that the user does not pay the fees for the acts which he has already received and which certain authorities are obliged to issue immediately. Since the South Stream is crossing several cultural and historical sites, which my colleague Mirko Chikiriz was already talking about... (President: Mrs Batic, time. I think we should look for an expert opinion and deal with finding a solution to that. Thank you. I don't have any more time, so I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11941	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11942	Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been informed by counterpart Tomic that an agreement has been reached with the DS. Because of it or because of you, I'm looking forward to it, but the rest of us have something to object to this big job of yours. I'm afraid that the kind of consent you've reached will not be enough convincing argument for us to agree to the adoption of this law. As well as the assembly that you achieved in 2008, it was not convincing enough for LDP, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and SVM to enter into a deeply misorganised and placed business called – an energy agreement or an oil-gas agreement. Today, four and a half years later, you can see very clearly how right we were. I do not expect Minister Mihajlovic to repeat in this debate today as a minister all the arguments she had against such an arrangement at a time when he was adopted or something later. We expect minimal, elemental honesty. I'll tell you very openly. I think it was fairer to write a law or a legal member that allows "Gasprom" and the Russian side to enter Serbia's tanks and take over Serbia. This is the practical consequence of this law that you adopt and the direct consequence of this initial problem that has been incorporated into the entire energy agreement, which is the ownership ratio. Such a terrible inequality of the two sides. You can use this law of euphemism to say - society, user of expropriation, holder of property rights, holder of service rights. In real life, this means that the other state through its state-owned company is the majority owner of everything that will come from the South Stream project in the same way as the majority owner or the absolute owner of everything in the NIS. It's the result of everything you've been doing for the past five years. Let's explain to the citizens of Serbia. In this country, when you tell people the Constitution, human rights, they are not topics that are so receptive to people at first sight. When they realize that this law wants you to take away their country under very intransparent conditions in a procedure that is obviously against the constitution and with a very vague ultimate goal for them, believe me, they will object. They have already rebelled in history several times when there were similar attempts, at the end of the 19th century and afterwards and after 1944 and 1945 and on several occasions. They'll fight back after the law's passed. With this law, you will divide Serbia's territory into two physical acts. On the left and right, there will be Serbia's territory and territory in the middle will be owned by another state, through a company called Gazprom, or a joint company from Switzerland, that is, through its daughter, a company registered in Novi Sad. It's the only real consequence of this law. Don't diminish the negative effects of the law. I saw a president of the municipality, the mayor, a few weeks ago, who tried to explain to the citizens of Serbia that it was a few meters away and that the left and right would be able to move everything as it has ever been, that they would be owners, users of their land at full capacity, and if someone objected, we could move the pipeline 10 or 15 meters to the left or right. I was shocked by such amateurism and then we heard a kind of similar explanation today from you, Minister. Of course, around such a large, uniquely large and significant facility that has thousands of repercusions on everyday life whose value is enormous, it will not be possible to left and right by the country's owners or today's landowners and users of normal weapons, thirst and sowing. Of course that's not gonna happen. This is what your colleagues from Mr Ilic's party, your colleague, Minister Ilic, honestly tell you. This is kind of a security-military facility. That's what this is about, and no one will be able to get near him because it's a normal legitimate interest of whoever's the majority owner in this. It's not Serbia. Serbia is not even an equal owner. Serbia is a minority owner and is also a poor, small country with incompetent political elites, unprepared to fight for Serbia's interest. Mrs. Tomic, I respect you very much, but you and I both know that no working group or commission will be able to fight for better conditions. Russia and Germany have not achieved a serious strategic long-term partnership by negotiating some commissions and working groups, occasional and temporary working bodies, but have been strategically agreed on by the political peaks and political elites of those countries. One of the former German Chancellors went to work for Gazprom after completing his professional political career, but left behind clearly regulated relations in which Germany is not a slave, such as Serbia's slave in an energy agreement with the Russian Federation. It is quite obvious and it is embedded in that initial step made in 2007 and 2008. It doesn't make any sense to keep it quiet today. If you want to change the essence, nature, our rights, the relationship of rights and obligations in that agreement, then do it at the highest level, or try to do it at the highest interstate level, and you will have LDP support for it. You can't do that on a small door. We cannot do this as Mr. Bajatovic announces, that there is a chance that there will be equality owned by Jugorosgas in the next few months. That's what we asked for four years ago, so police investigations were announced about how it happened that Serbia missed the right to stop buying, so nothing happened. What's the price for buying our 25%? Will it be a ticket that another bank or another business partner enters Serbia through the business, as similar jobs, you know well, are being prepared in the EPS? I didn't understand what these remarks meant that this would help develop nonprofits. You mentioned culture at one point. It is nice that there is a culture, that there is a cultural exchange between Serbia and Russia. I guess that's what you meant. I support that in every way. But, as I recall, when the great success of joining the energy agreement was celebrated, the concert, among other things, was organised by the Russian music "Srbigas", the Serbian public company and paid "Srbigas", in fact paid by taxpayers who for years supported this incompetent "Srbigas" or "Serbiagas" which has hundreds of millions of euros of losses, which are technically covered by the debt each year for not knowing how many hundreds of millions of euros and for that is guaranteed by this Assembly, i.e. you who agree to constantly issue guarantees in favour of "Yugorosgas". There is no doubt that this law is unconstitutional, as is basically an unconstitutional and arrangement that we entered into. In 2008, the U.S. The Constitutional Court did not have the strength to seriously consider our initiative. We'll see if it's 2013 or 2014. The Liberal Democratic Party will launch a procedure for the constitutional assessment. Please remind your associates that when they come to parliament they have the right to consult with you and give you advice. I don't think it's polite for them to gesture as the MPs speak. I'm sorry, there's some elemental order in this country. So I hope that in 2013 or 2014 the Constitutional Court will be able to decide differently. We will call on other political parties who have opposed even entering this business under these conditions, LSV, SVM, we will also invite DS. I hope that, perhaps with a few years late, it will be clear how much trouble the country has made in the way they have at one point agreed to this relationship with the Russian Federation. Once again, I don't blame Russia or their company who will participate in this business. Like any serious political entity, state, businessman, capitalist, if you will, they tried to get the best conditions for themselves and they succeeded. The responsibility for today's adoption of such a law is on our side, by Serbian politicians who have agreed to such a thing. Serbia does not get any kind of certainty, no privilege because it has entered into such an arrangement. Don't mix two things. Even if this project itself is terribly useful for Serbia, the mega useful, as Mr Ilic said, it seems to me, is it the same for those to whom this law will apply, to the owners of these parcels? Don't mix those two things, because if you so brutally put one interest that you can declare in this procedure public, general, national interest, then you permanently trampled the sanctity of private property, which is the essence of the modern state organization. So you need to find a balance between private, personal interest, owners and some kind of general, state and public interest to complete the expropriation procedure as soon as possible. You're, of course, right when you say that at this point the system is so set up that it would last five, six or seven years if you were to conduct a regular procedure under the regulatory law, but I'm sorry, there's no harm done by these people you're going to apply this law to. At the same time, I would not much call for people from southern Serbia or people around Nis, because the "South Stream" route is like this or something, so they will not participate in this project. There are other people around Nis. Some of them have been having problems for years with the construction of another pipeline, run by Jugorosgas. People were destroyed economically and financially in the business, practically without everything. There's no way they can get satisfaction in the end. When it happened in one case to some kind of regional or small pipeline, what will happen, what are all the dangers that threaten us in this process? Ten thousand parcels, how many new potential Ken cases in a few years? That's what this is about. It's always about credibility and trust. This country has gambled on him in a thousand ways and, of course, it didn't start with this government. It's been going on for years and decades. The way out of this is not this kind of shortcut you're setting up by this law. We have often said that Serbia is in a hurry and today we say this, but the hasty to solve a particular problem in this way will ultimately cause much greater damage. When people bring court proceedings, when they reach the Strasbourg court, when it burdens us in the further process of European integration, how will we go back? The Gazprom or the Russian side will not be held accountable. They're protected in this business. They will make their pipeline, they will satisfy their interest, and who will owe in the end the damages of different kinds of satisfaction and satisfaction to the people who are damaged? That's not the answer to this law. He'll pass, of course. Different other laws have passed, which later, following a decision by the Constitutional Court or by some other bodies, change or come at a charge. The last time is for you to listen to us at least in this and not bring this to the question of the relations between Serbia and Russia or Serbia and the EU, Eurofanatism or Euroscepticism. It's not about that at all. It's about property rights, commercial, national, military, political, whatever you want the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. I think it must be the only criterion in our work. Each of us can be fascinated or dissatisfied with Russia. We can expect or say that every project that comes from Russia is impressive, but these are our private political opinions, emotional preferences. It has nothing to do with the work that we as politicians have to do. That's why I'm asking you to try to pull out and change this law. Of course, the LDP has submitted six or seven amendments. They are trying to amend or correct some of the specific problems that exist in this law, in terms of the procedure, the protection of rights, the duration of the proceedings, etc., but is not the essence. The point is, in relation to 51:49 and the fact that this relationship with a bad energy agreement has been nailed for at least 30 years, and of course it is actually permanent. These aren't assembly facilities and time-armed deals and contracts. He'll stay here permanently. I think we're wasting our last moments when we might be able to do something and maybe make something right, or you'll come to this situation at every step that you have to ask the Russian side to maybe make a slightly cheaper price of gas because we're in brotherly or sisterly relations. That doesn't have to lead us. I expected you to react as minister at the moment Mr Ilic said this was the biggest investment project in Serbia. I expected you to protect your colleague Bačević and say that his project is to build a channel to Thessaloniki is the biggest project not at this time, but in Serbia's history. It seems to me that, as in some other situations, you were not the most in the mood to represent the same attitude as Mr. Bacevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11943	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11944	I'm always for every kind of investment in Serbia. The current topic is the South Stream, which is the draft of this law that you are not in the mood to accept, you have your arguments for it and amendments. For now, I know that we have accepted one amendment, and we will see for the others. What I think is important and what is to be said, which is what I want to point out several times because of the citizens of Serbia, since it spends all the time here that Serbian citizens who own these parcels will be damaged. So they won't be damaged. I'll explain how. When you talk about taking away land, to remind me that out of the 34 thousand acres of land that are the subject of all of this, 47 acres is taken away, or expunged. So, only 47 hectares are taken away and, of course, an appropriate fee will be paid for it, as the fee will be paid to reduce the value of the land of all these other hectares, because it will not be possible to sow that crop that was sowing, but it may be able to some others. There's exactly how many acres it is and exactly what it's going to look like. I think it's important to say. Secondly, the amount of compensation will be determined by the Tax Administration. The whole story is being conducted by the municipalities. Why is there a working body, I think we have to make a difference, because I'm afraid you've mixed two things. One is a story at a high political level about, say, transport prices, transit prices, etc., which we will discuss and what I specifically said at the beginning, and the other is a story temporarily or occasionally, whatever it is called, a task force that will only deal with the implementation of this law. She's here to oversee law enforcement and try to solve any problem as soon as possible. This second part of the story, which you're absolutely right about, so of course it won't work any working groups. Of course there's gonna be a lot of other things to talk about on a much higher level, and you and I both know what that's supposed to be like. There's one more thing you've been through here, and I don't think you should -- the question is that someone is announcing something about "Yugorosgas," that similar things are being prepared for the EPS, etc. Although it is not a topic, and I will try to be very brief, no privatisation of the EPS is mentioned, does not talk and does not exist in any single version of this government, or this ministry. What is currently happening in the EPS are financial problems that are inherited and I can say that they can be solved. The second part of the story, related to the EPS, regarding a new business society and a public supplier, which we have to do under the Energy Act, because we are opening the market etc. It has absolutely nothing to do with what's been tried to penetrate the public, to prepare for the privatisation of the EPS. This government is not preparing to privatise the EPS. Just to let you know. I'd be here for a while. I believe you will answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11945	The replica was first reported by Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11946	Yes, since Mr. Djuric mentioned DS in the context of one, I would say, inappropriate speculation. The very fact that we are strategically defending the agreement that we have and how we have positively influenced it does not mean that we have some agreement that has been made here. There is no agreement, we simply point to very similar shortcomings, like you, with the hope that our amendments will be adopted in this sense, which would allow DS to support this law. I think it's quite clear that when it's said that there's a deal here about this going through, I don't think it's a target shooting, and it doesn't match the truth. I repeat, we support an agreement in which we have been very actively involved and that Serbia can, in a strategic sense, connect to one, I would say, an extremely important gas project. Since other projects have disappeared from the map of European events, I think we will always repeat what we have said and so far, we will always support that project that passes through the Republic of Serbia in relation to one that does not pass or one that does not exist, in this case. If it is necessary to "pay" by an appropriate arrangement, which does not bear all the market bases, the Republic of Serbia has been ready before, and I believe it will also be in the future because it is a much greater profit for the citizens of Serbia. That doesn't apply to these expropriations and other shortcomings that we've seen as well as you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11947	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, at the presentation of Mr Đurić, i.e. the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11948	Dear Chairman, first of all, I wanted to explain to Mr. Djuric why I said that the DS Committee accepted her vote in favour of this bill. For the simple reason that they have declared directly that they will support this law with a certain number of amendments. Your representative at the Committee's session has not spoken. You were probably against it, but then that's what you should say. So, you're saying that we should simply put this agreement out of force, or break it up as a state. We have been put in a situation that, as a new assembly meeting, a new government, some international agreements, which have been signed in recent times, realised, with certain studies done, to establish a strategic, in the interests of Serbian citizens towards them. We set ourselves up that way and we couldn't get into that ownership structure, at this point, when they've already been defined in the way they've been defined in the last five years. It was up to us to try to bring some new negotiations into a state that would be in the interest of all Serbian citizens. In the end, I ask one basic question -- would any country now, if we left the EU, Germany, break this agreement if it had one? Would any country in the region, if it had such a position, a signed agreement and a job like this, break the contract and say, no, now we just don't want to do it, we want to go to re-negotiation, new market conditions? It is simply not how one responsible government behaves and one responsible state. I'm going to deny you your story about a task force watching the job. Article 15 of this law says... (President: Time. ) You can take away my time from the parliamentary group Okay, I'm sorry. [[President: I can't, when I give you the right to replication.]] Just one sentence. In Article 15, you have been defined to define one working body that will monitor this entire project. This means that the government, on the basis of a decision, makes joint decisions by all resolution ministries, makes certain decisions and controls such large-scale businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11949	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11950	Don't get me involved in those discussions. You said that you had reached an agreement with the DS that she was voting and I repeated it, and in the end, Mr Stefanovic attacked me to make up something. After that, you confirmed the same thing. I've just repeated your words. I don't have any emotional relationship with that. Meanwhile, counterpart Hajdarevic has arrived, he is a member of the committee you are talking about and tells me he voted on that committee against this law. Therefore, I think it is very clear from this store that the LDP was against this law. I think we've said it so many times, there's no need to say it again. You also said that these working groups will work to improve the general conditions and agreements. That's what I said again. Of course I don't think, as well as the minister, that it's realistic that someone who follows only these, let me say, technical segments of the project can change interstate relations. Also, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I did not put so directly in Mr. Bajatovic's announcement that, let's say, the return of the old ownership structure in the company "Yugorosgas" and what I think will happen at the end of the line, or that there is a danger that it will happen in the EPS case. What you certainly cannot argue is that there is a serious problem in the EPS, that the executive of the company, the director of the company and the Management Board, which is also under the authority of the Government, or a government representative in a company that is 100% state, should run the company in a strategic sense, have very serious considerations. There's nothing to hide. If the EPS is in such a big problem and it has to be so much in debt, if there are serious problems, I have seen the announcement of the finance minister that they will not give a guarantee of such a thing, or that they will not ask this Parliament and simply ask – what will be the collateral in this business? I think we'll be able to conclude everything from that answer. (President: Time. Once again, I apologize to the DS. I'm not getting into whether you made a deal or didn't make a deal. I only reacted to what my colleague Tomic was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11951	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11952	Thank you very much. Just a little extra for the EPS. It's normal to have problems. There can't be any problems in a public enterprise that's been disinvested for decades and in serious problems for decades. The problems are huge. Since it's a big system, then these problems have been coming together for years and there comes a year when we realize that this system can literally break. We are in the year, and I have announced it before, with serious problems in electricity, or EPS, but it is far from saying that EPS should be sold because there are not only internal reserves in Serbia's electricity industry, which we as a ministry are asking to exploit. But there is also that other part of the story, and that the government adopted the basics of restructuring a few months ago, i.e. the corporateisation of EPS, and I will try a little bit to make these things real, precisely because this EPS would slowly start to function like any normal public enterprise. You and I agree that the damage, I'm sure, is for the EPS for the Serbs to be in serious trouble financially, as they are. The task of the government and the ministry, at least that's how I see it when it comes to a state-owned company, is to do everything, but not to the harm of the citizens and not to the harm of the economy. That this company is starting to change, and that the way it is run within that company is changing. It's my mission to the EPS, and so is the Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11953	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11954	Dear Chairman, I'm sorry Mr. Djuric didn't listen when I spoke about the temporary task force, Article 15. It is defined there to deal with this government-defined working body. It will deal with the monitoring and realization of this project and no negotiations. Don't put something in someone's mouth that he didn't say, which is not the point of this law, not this government, not this parliamentary group, but you stick to your course. If you are against this law and agreement, it's fine, but then say so – we are against it and we will not participate in it, we will not give amendments either. You've given the amendments. To have the space to tell now a nice opposition story about how this project is harmful to the citizens of Serbia and the country, which is not true. No one here can take the responsibility not to open such an investment, take so many jobs that are being opened and let go of something called financial support and economic growth in this country. No one can take responsibility like that. You are comfortable with the situation in the opposition and you can afford it and even allow it to be said that someone is agreeing or not agreeing on certain agreements. Each party shall give its opinion on whether or not it will support a certain law. The Democratic Party has come forward and said it will and will make amendments. You said you wouldn't and you gave the amendments again, and that's legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11955	Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11956	I didn't want to report to an esteemed colleague, Mr. Đurić. I just wanted a mild intervention. I didn't attack anyone, I was just trying to make one thing clear. If DS representatives come out in a very clear way on the board and say they support a project in which we and previous governments, not only DS and many others, participated very actively, with the fence that we want to improve this law to the amendments, I do not see how it implies that we have an agreement with anyone. That is why I accept your apology, because no parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament has a crystal ball, nor should an interpretation of the DS move be conducted except the DS itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11957	Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11958	Mr. Stefanovic, this is the last time, and I hope we finish this, I think, rather pointless controversy. I didn't mention this agreement. I mentioned Mrs. Tomic. It wouldn't have occurred to me to mention it at all, and for some reason she felt the need to emphasize it in particular. Speaking of which, I would ask the SNS representative not to interpret the LDP proceedings, since it seems to me that we can do well enough on our own, or at least take care of what your minister is telling us at the same time, since you accused us of just so that we could have some comfortable opposition story about the agreement submitted amendments to the law, and the minister said that for now at least one of our amendments has accepted. So she accepted one of those unserious non-serious amendments that we submitted to preserve our favourable position as the opposition party. We've never behaved taking a comfortable position. I'd say it was your party. Let's finish this debate at least once with the truth that we're going to get to. You can't come four years after the adoption of the agreement and you say -- that's how it is now, that's the founding state, that's the reality, that's what we do, that's some before us, and we as a state have to run a responsible policy. I agree, but Mrs Tomic, your political party voted in this parliament for an energy agreement in which Serbia has a permanent minority participation and for such a thing there is some kind of political responsibility. You can be proud of something like that. I don't dispute that right at all. I'm just saying that this didn't happen suddenly and overnight, that it was the result of a single vote in this House in autumn 2008, in which your political party is under another name or in a period of metamorphosis... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... at that moment of voting. I don't have anything against it. We have not voted for such a thing and this is a situation that has been known to citizens for several years. I apologize for the overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11959	Veroljub Arsic, a replica on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS is not negotiating with the DS and don't pay any more respects to us. If they want to vote in favour of a bill, it is their legitimate right, such as the legitimate right of LDP to use the situation in the DS to score political points because they have a similar or the same electoral body. All these political moves that are now being drawn in all these discussions want to be valorised in some of the next elections. Also, when you mention all these agreements that are very harmful, I would like to say that NIS was evaluated in March of 2008, before the outbreak of the global economic crisis, at about 900m euros. At the time of the official sale of NIS, NIS because of the global economic crisis was five times cheaper than it was estimated, and the Russian partner paid that assessment that was in March of the month. We can talk about a variety of things and put it on the political ground where someone will always present that the Serbian side is damaged, but no matter how hard you try, you still have to admit that at this point this is one of the biggest investments Serbia has or we're going to open up stories about Sartida, about how it was sold, how 600m euros have disappeared through our banks, which the vice-presidents then were current and how it went with some other flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11961	Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11962	She's mentioned DS. At one point, dear colleague Arsic, you don't have the same degree of insight and knowledge that you know if we're a party to a problem that's bigger than you, say. The other thing is, is any member of someone's electoral body, maybe we're all part of the same electoral body now that politics is the same as ours, and the LDP is approaching as well. I don't think you're mad at me for mentioning you in this context. The third thing, some smaller parties often need not to attack the government but the DS thinking that it will strengthen their position. That's where we agree. We're as big as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11963	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11964	I wanted to pay attention to this debate, but I tried to stay away. I guess you know why, too. On this subject, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Stefanovic, I see no conflict between parties. On this subject, in fact, I see differences beyond our political actions. If you're describing yourself as a stickler, I would never personally do it to you or to myself, but I'm not going to add anything. This isn't a job for the thongs, and that's how Serbia got into this business. Am I wrong, Mr. Michael? Did the president and prime minister grab that chair in Moscow, and someone estimate that his presidential mandate was worth it, and someone else believed that Kosovo was worth NIS? That's what to say. In May 2008, we demonstrated in electoral silence that people who could not see each other, Tadic and Kostunica, put together DS and DSS to vote for the SAA and ratified an agreement signed in Moscow, so that the pressure on Moscow for fear of the possibility of the LDP entering the government, block at the government level what cannot be blocked in the assembly, because there are radicals that Russia loves more than Serbia and whose leader, and today Serbia's president, regrets that Serbia is not Russian Governor. I remind you of the words of Tomislav Nikolic a few years ago. What we did then as a country has a price to pay for our children. What's going on right now is the realisation of an agreement that is disastrous for Serbia's interests, and good for Russia's interests, but that's what we've already discussed here and the story ended with Putin... (President: Time. We now need to see how we will proceed and what we will do with what is before us. We have a problem with this law because it leaves the practice that existed in this country. The fact that people won't respect it will push us into the problems we have too much. Stop doing that for all the reasons you didn't do it in Kragujevac, so you moved the factory to another location in the case of the Fiat. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11965	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11966	Paraphrasing your former leader, Mr. Seselj, Mr. Arsic, I will say this. As soon as you're buried in this debate, you're so easy to become that old radical and you're constantly back in 2001, 2002 and 2003, and in the case of Sartida, we can talk at the moment when you finish your new job and new investment in Sartid, and we'll see what price will be reached. If you reach a price of one dollar, I will say it is not a dirty and corrupt privatisation, I will say it is useful, it is done under those conditions that can be achieved on the market and that it is good for the citizens of Smedereva and for the citizens of Serbia and for the economy of our country. That's why we don't take the easy position of the opposition, but we behave the same way in one, both in the other and in the third situation. Please don't judge who shares whose electoral body. I'm not going into your ability, your insight, etc., but just worry about your concern, let go, like some others I pray they don't talk about LDP as a small party that uses the opportunity to attack a bigger one, while all their attacks point to this vast and large party of the ruling coalition, which is called the URS. No offense, I don't mean to offend you, but there are bigger parties in that government that can be criticised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11967	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11968	I guess now we should say something bad against SNS, and that's what we say every day. You're kind of more noticeable than that. I was just saying there's no need to use this party as a tool, my party, which you will occasionally attack the government. That's why I'm thrilled that Mr. Jovanovic joined us and immediately showed how it should be done. So, I'm really pleasantly surprised and I like to see any opposition party when brave, as well as DS, directly stands before the biggest party of the ruling coalition and tells them in their face everything they think about any project, including the South Stream, and not to use DS as a tool, in this case listed as a stick, which you're going to hit someone else. Only in this sense did I say that it was too heavy a tool and too much for the capacity it provides.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11969	The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic, on behalf of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11970	I want to respond to the allegations that have been made here. The Democratic Party of Serbia and the government of Vojislav Kostunica supported the conclusion of an oil-gas deal with the Russian Federation because it considers it an extremely good and important job for Serbia. The thesis that NIS was given for Kosovo was presented here. We think that this whole job that will come now, hopefully, by adopting this law is good and will bring new investments into Serbia and ensure its energy stability and employ new people and certainly solve many of the problems Serbia has at the moment. These were basic motives, and we through a partnership that was developing within this business and the cooperation we had with the Russian Federation thank the Russian Federation for the support it gave the Republic of Serbia in defending its territorial integrity, especially in the UN Security Council when the adoption of Ahtisaari's plan was prevented. As far as voting for this agreement is concerned, one claim has been made here that at the session at which the DSS oil and gas agreement was adopted has voted in favour of the SAA. That's not true. The Democratic Party of Serbia and its members then went out to the government and did not support the SAA, because it was signed at the moment the EU decided that by recognising a large number of its members, the Republic of Serbia would take away territorial integrity by recognising Kosovo's independence. We thought it was a wrong step, and that's why we didn't support the SAA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11971	The word is by MP Dejan Mihajlov, a replica to Mr Jovanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11972	Mr Jovanovic, it is true that the abduction of the chair was, but it only speaks in favour of how good this agreement is and how accurate the interstate contract that covered the three segments: the construction of the South Stream, the privatisation of NIS - 51% of the shares and the storage of gas in Banatski Dvor. It just shows how good this agreement is and how much someone, at that point, wanted to take credit for this whole process that was over. I personally participated in this process, very actively. I'm proud of it. I think it's a good job for the Republic of Serbia. This is seen in the way NIS develops, according to the gas storage facility, the Banatski Dvor is the basis for Serbia's energy stability compared to 51% and 49%. That only adds to the fact that the government and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, and all those who voted in favour of the agreement, contributed to Serbia becoming an energy-stable country, independent of anyone. Under the agreements reached then, Serbia has the right to use the amount of gas needed to develop the economy. In the future, when business activity expands, Serbian firms work in the construction of the South Stream and Serbian firms work on all investments in the Pancevo and NIS oil refinery. More than a billion euros have been invested in NIS so far. There's still so much going on. Debts that were around 800m euros were recovered at the time of the takeover. NIS is becoming the most important oil company in the region. I think it is something that should be enjoyed by the citizens of Serbia and that NIS actions are worth five times more now than they were worth at the time of taking over the NIS by Gazprom, and all in line with the interstate agreement that this assembly has confirmed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11973	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why this story is coming back to no one to criticize the former government for what it was doing and how the current government should only worry about those concerns while it was in power. To be clear, we took care of Sartide and when it was first privatized, when a billion euros were lost that Sartid owed to banks, so he sold for 25m euros, bought for one euro with 300m euros in losses. That's the result. Or "The Oil Industry of Serbia" which was sold at some cost with losses, which the state has not taken over on itself and which should now be one of the leading exporters in the Republic of Serbia and supplying oil products to this whole part of Europe. So we're taking care of Sartid and 2002 and 2003 and 2013, because that's where our citizens who are currently out of work live. Don't worry, we'll find a strategic partner for Sartid to put an end to that question, but not the way other governments did it. That's the difference between you and me. While you're talking about doing your job responsibly and loving this country, I admit that you love it, but you can't love it more than we do, you can agree on it, too. Now, as whoever did it, the people will again in some elections appreciate both us and you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11975	Thank you. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11976	Mr. Stefanovic, we owe you nothing. We feel a great commitment to the people who live in this country, and I personally and to the members, the DS voters, to many fellow MPs, but that certainly does not mean that because of this respect and respect you can go through this debate to pass the spared criticism that we rightly refer to you. This agreement we're talking about today is a scandal and a disgrace to this country. Milosevic would never sign such an agreement. He made an agreement on Serbia-Russia's strategic partnership, so we had a control package in the agreement. You wouldn't do it today either, no one would do it the way it was made in 2008, no one. Yes, the NIS actions jumped, but Serbia does not own these actions, but Russia does. Yes, it's invested in Banatski Dvor, but it's not Serbian, it's Russian. No country in Europe has ever done that. Yes, today NIS is making profits, but in this NIS Serbia sees no benefit to itself, unless in favour of subsidising the fact that someone is receiving a regular salary, that this NIS pays failed Serbian clubs, it may no longer be, that it has entered some new corporate mentality, order, that it is being stolen there, but why should I praise them, let them praise themselves, let them pay the agencies, I am interested in something else. Three times more gas in Serbia is being extracted, am I right, today than it was a few years ago. The resources of this country are empty, the wealth that will never return. Which one's the mine rent? Three percent. Who's damaged? Kickinda, local self-government, this country. The same thing as oil, four times the amount of oil is now being extracted than a few years ago. Who owns all that? Russia. Who pays the price? It's like he's from Siberia. End of story. Good job for Russia, disaster for Serbia. There is nothing more to change with this law, but you must pay it politically, and you, Mr. Stefanovic, and you, Mr. Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11977	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11978	First of all, I'm not going to go into the ownership relationship this way that the gentleman who spoke before me does. Sartid was sold 70%, with the state accepting to pay back the debts of Sartid to foreign banks. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: It is not true. It is, it is, for 25m euros. That's how much it's sold and there's evidence of that. Furthermore, the benefits of one country have from that infrastructure that exists on its territory. How does it bother that the Russian partner, the partner of the Republic of Serbia, owns 51% and did not mind that another partner owns 70%, the same from abroad? That doesn't bother you then? That's not privatisation? When you talk about profit, the Republic of Serbia owns 49%, 49% net profit NIS belongs to the Republic of Serbia. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the scene: It is not true, we are now in the status of a small shareholder. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11979	Please, don't get out of the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11980	So, I'm not looking, when it comes to investment, where the money comes from, it's important to me whether the investment is healthy, whether the state benefits from it, and the state benefits if its citizens benefit first. It's the state's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11981	Thank you. Please close the circle of replicas. The first reported a replica of MP Dejan Mihajlov, so Bojan Djuric and Cedomir Jovanovic. I ask you to close the lines with this, so that we can allow the MPs who have applied for the word to speak. Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11982	The state owns 49% of actions in "South Stream", and slightly less in NIS because shares shared by citizens under the law passed before Boris Tadic's 2008 presidential election and in Banatski Dvor, the state owns 49% of the shares. In NIS, the state owns about 36% of the shares and has 49% rights because small shareholders have not yet taken over management rights within their actions. Secondly, the problem is the previous government because it did not agree with the Russian partner in Gazprom, in NIS to be a partner in NIS and to enjoy 49% of its rights by having a number of directors who would participate in planning and business. Thirdly, the state will also have the income of NIS citizens in terms of dividends that shareholders, small shareholders and states will receive from NIS as soon as it is agreed and voted on by the board of directors. Now, as far as I know, there's the Minister of Energy and can better explain, mostly all the funds, the 50 billion-dollar profit goes into investment. How good this agreement is is seen by Croatia, which has made an agreement with Mol before us, looking at how to break this agreement, because Mol has reversed INU and contributed to INA becoming marginal on the regional market. The second thing was that there were large polemics in Croatia why the "South Stream" does not go through Croatia and who is responsible for it. Serbia signed the "South Stream" Agreement among the first, although there was a likelihood and a great pressure from EU countries to bypass Serbia, to go through Romania, and thus all the countries through which the South Stream would go, the main route would be the EU countries -- Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Austria, Slovenia, and all the way to Italy. (President: Time. ) I think it is very important for Serbia that the "South Stream" goes by and that we are all here, primarily through the government, and through this assembly, we have contributed to Serbia thus providing itself with a stable energy position in a situation where energy...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11983	Thank you, Mr. Michael. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11984	Mr. Mihajlov partially explained to Mr. Arsic what the ownership structure of NIS is, but I don't think completely, I think that the state stake still fell significantly below that percentage you said, but well, it's not crucial. It is clear that Serbia is a minority partner. Of course it is true that Serbia was among the first to enter the South Stream Project, and it paid dearly. Others or others came in a little later, a little longer, and they negotiated more seriously. They did not rely on brother-sister relations, but on pure interstate negotiations, with clear rights and interests, and therefore are now equal partners in each segment of energy business with the Russian Federation. The example of Bulgaria, which is mentioned here, may be the best. I wouldn't mention the example of Romania so easily and her grief that she wasn't in the business. I think Romania has succeeded in other ways, meanwhile, to raise its energy potential, to seriously impose itself as one of the leaders, at least in this part of Europe, but well, Mr. Michael, that was probably less important in those jobs or political arrangements that you wanted to achieve, and I don't blame you for that. You, Mr. Arsic, would really have to be a little more careful when you represent as a crime business... (President: Do not address the MP directly, please. ) Mr. Arsic, I believe, should be a little more serious when as a crime it is a business in which the state makes a certain kind of decision on the taking of debts, on how to change the owner or in some way privatise one of the state, public or any enterprise that is owned by it, then he would have to take care of the state-owned, governmental announcement of the fate of JAT. This country is just talking about taking over JAT's obligations and creating a fictitious new company that will start from scratch, and it will only include what are the rights and property of that company, and then it will be a crime. (President: Time. You have to understand the basics of these affairs. Start with what you're going to learn at least what the percentages are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11985	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11986	The key misunderstanding between us is the fact that you're always talking about something that is absolutely not controversial for us, which is that today are not successful companies. We are trying to explain to you that there is not much room for our pleasure in this success. It's a successful Russian company. The second question was the incompetence of those who had led the NIS before, making it an untapped potential. We're talking about something else, the fact that our energy system is practically under the control of another state, that no one has done it except us. All those countries you listed, Mr. Michael, have signed a South Stream agreement. We have nothing against him, let him pass through here. Let them all pass through Serbia. But no country is a minority partner in all this, not one, only Serbia, not Bulgaria, not Romania, not Slovenia, only Serbia. Nobody paid that ticket so expensive, privatizing a national oil company and giving something that's a natural wealth, and that's that Banatical Court. We don't have another one. That's what we did. Now we need to look for the best solution. For example, we should ask the Russians to buy these remaining actions of the state, but to reassess the value of the company, so maybe that's how we'll get to the sum that would be appropriate to what we could get in 2008 for what we were selling back then. (President: Time. Introduce order in the country, bring normal laws. This law will create problems for both us and those for which we are passing this law, which are those who want to build this "South Stream" in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11987	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11988	Not only did this series of replicas take us away from the topic, unfortunately, because we started to discuss whether the South Stream is good or not, whether it's meaningful, whether it's a good job and, of course, who's responsible and who needs to pay the price. I'll remind you of the condition this company was in when it was sold to a foreign partner. It's completely irrelevant whether it's Russian or some other capital. If some have managed their emotions, as you say, and brotherly love, I can tell you that the government that led this negotiation process has not been governed by any love. We, Mr. Jovanovic, were faced only with some hazy promise now of one, I apologize for speaking directly that the company would be sold to an Austrian partner for billions. (President: Do not address the MP directly. ) Of which, of course, there was nothing, in the situation when the Russians came to us and said that NIS is worth 160m euros. I happen to know about it because I've been running a negotiation process. Why 51 to 49? Because these things were already agreed in Moscow at the state level. They tell you it's worth 160. And the field was there and the debts that no one in this country has been able to pay back for decades and the workers who got 750 euros a year to leave the company if they wanted to. No one's been expelled from the company. Who else can boast? In the end, you get a company that makes a profit and pays over 90 billion in the country's budget. You say, "It doesn't do any good." How is it no use? Why we in the DS need to explain to you, who are supporters of liberal capitalism, what it means to sell the company to a foreign partner. No emotion, no Russian love. We sold at that moment to whoever was able to secure at that moment, given the price of oil, the best price, based on what they did as an estimate of the value of capital. (President: Time. It's not a question of love or a raid at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11989	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11990	I'm not picking up any more lines. The gas storage facility is not some warehouse that is built, simply, it's hollow rocks or it's rocks of natural formations from which oil or gas has previously been extracted and which remain so empty that after a certain procedure gas is pumped and certain compressors and plants are placed that regulate whether the gas is pumped or empty and the rest. Such cavities and such deformities, as you say, are still in Vojvodina and they are not owned by NIS. They are not owned by a Russian partner, but owned by Serbia. This was discussed in 2007 and 2008, so that these warehouses could function and be owned by Serbia, filled with gas, Serbian gas or other gas, and that after that we could sell the gas in the best way and how it is most business and at what times we wanted. Those warehouses are there, and this isn't the only one. Secondly, NIS fills 10% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's a simple fact. Seven hundred euros per year of work experience mines, no one has ever won or won in Serbia. We are talking here about a socially responsible project that has been made and that will contribute to Serbia's development. At these times when there are few foreign investments, NIS is one of the few companies that drags Serbia forward in its development and technological development and the inclusion of all Serbian companies working and contributing to the development of NIS. When the South Stream starts, it'll be even more. It is an investment worth about a billion and 500m euros. Surely, Russian companies from Siberia will not come or from there to dig up the country in Serbia. That's what Serbian firms will do. It is a simple job that will be tied to Serbia, as well as to maintenance, transit charges and everything else. (President: Time. We think that this is a good agreement and we are proud that this agreement has been adopted by this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11991	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic, a replica of Mr Jovanovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with many of my predecessors that it is necessary to carefully assess what the state is selling. I don't know where Grandpa's grade is, I think, at the economic college on the value of "Sartida" of $450 million. It's gone. There's a big difference when something is sold by government decision, especially if it's a public enterprise, compared to selling social property, out of bankruptcy, where one man decides, like it was in the Sartide case. Not to mention that the local court was a court in Pogorevec, which was done by the Commercial Court in Belgrade. Something can't even this situation with JAT and the one with Sartide can't be the same. Don't hold onto that story anymore because for the first time in years, during the time of the global economic crisis, Serbia has one serious investment. We can talk about how justified she is, whether we could do better or worse and whatever you want, but if we miss this opportunity, believe me, we won't have a new one. Just deal with it, as we have reconciled that the damage that has been done to the state of the previous years, that someone will have to work long and long to make up for it, and we haven't been involved in it. But we accept that part of responsibility, that we have to change something and do it. (President: Time. That's what the difference is, instead of just criticizing itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11993	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11994	It's gonna take a while. Mr. Stefanovic, I apologize, but he came to me personally, and I don't know what qualified you for the job. The way you're talking now, the Russians came to you and said it was worth $125 million. No, the Russians hired as legal advisor the most relevant legal house in the Freshfields world from London, and for financial Mary Lynch, and against them you moved. Does that look normal to you? Do you realize how funny that is? No one knew what was going on at NIS. That's not true. NIS reported the last year, I mean plus 70 million, and then they wrote off some claims and it turns out it's minus 80, plus 70. The way you sold that NIS is the way you ran the state. It's a good thing we have something that we can stand on this Serbia. As for this idea of yours, Mr. Michael, let's put gas into some hollow rock. Well, first you need to build a gas company after we sold it. You need to find the infrastructure for it because we sold the infrastructure, all the wells we already didn't give. So you have to be very good with NIS to give you this job, which is why he's here, and he's doing very well in the meantime. Much more successful than anyone before them. Mr. Arsic, in that Sartid, it seems that many valuable mushrooms were growing, and in 2001, when the Faculty of Economics estimated it to be 450 million. In 2001. Sartide was a mushroom factory, not steel, not steel. It was sold as a failed company for $25 million. He's worked here for ten years, and I think today the people who worked at that Sartide would be happy to come back to work with those Americans. Whoever comes will have our support and stop criminalizing the people who were pulling this country out of the hole that you destroyed as radicals along with all those who led Serbia back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11995	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11996	I would really like to finish, but not on our side sat Borsko Stefanovic, I was one of 30 people on the negotiating team and of course we were doing very serious assessments where the best experts were involved, not just from this country and representatives of unions and companies and whoever you want. I don't understand why this malignancy and such representation of the conduct of the already agreed state business. I understand that you have a foreign concept that is not the question of Fidelinke, I understand that. But you must understand that it is not the same to run a private company and a state company, and long ago you led a state, Mr. Jovanovic. Since your reaction was inappropriate, I may have responded in a similar way in your opinion but at the same time you have to understand, there are really significant differences. In situations where you can't tell what a state's business is of strategic interest to a job that's a naked market business, a matter of privatisation, I really don't see why such hard words and qualifications about the DS government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11997	Thank you. It's Dejan Michael's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11998	This way, not to defend Borko Stefanovic but Mary Linc was a government consultant in this process because the government in the international tender chose Mary Linc, as financial adviser in the NIS privatisation process, which I think was then done by Minister Dinkic, as finance minister. The second thing, we have our oil company, a gas company, which is "Srbigas" and "Srbigas" is 100% state-owned, but "Srbigas" founded a new company on behalf of the Republic of Serbia to build the "South Stream". So it is "Srbigas" who is responsible for taking care of all other wells that exist, which are also available with the Ministry of Energy in Serbia, which he has and which can serve as the basis for an independent investment in an oil warehouse, such as the Banatski Dvor. If, of course, there is a need in Serbia to pass the Banatski Dvor despite the "South Stream" that will pass, the amounts of gas that we need to be able to withdraw and we have that warehouse. So it took care of everything and I don't think that in any way the Republic of Serbia is threatened by the conclusion of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u11999	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12000	First of all, let me tell you, I'm really sorry that I'm wasting my time here with you, maybe I could have done something useful, say, in that Fidelini. I will remind you, Mr. Stefanovic, that you have hired at the last moment as a legal adviser here, the reputed office "Popović-Jankovic-Mitic" and that as they knew and knew the agreement from the phase you brought him to. Minister Dinkic withdrew from the negotiations precisely because Mary Linc was not a financial adviser, a public call was called and Mary Lynch came forward, but was never hired. You know that very well. It's a good thing we had a place to stand. But what you definitely can't expect is our support in your intention to avoid a whole series of compromising facts that completely disqualify you. We're not talking about Russian management, we're not talking about the 90 billion we're going to pay in the budget, we're talking about everything that's been taken away from Serbia because of incompetent politicians and politics, because of the demagogy, because of the kidnapping of the chair, the lack of dignity, the elemental order, the government's session in electoral silence, the implementation of one party's ministers, but with the agreement to keep the quorum needed to make decisions. Who called that government's session? Did he call the president or anyone else? Kostunica called a cabinet meeting Friday before Sunday's elections. We all know that very well, and we're talking about it so that nothing else would happen. Call a tender. Could someone else have called? Could he offer more? He couldn't. Can anyone else come to Serbia today and work? It can't, because we've committed ourselves to the monopolies that we've passed on to another country. In the end, we're passing a law that will compromise us in front of those Russians. We climbed to the top of our heads, only their money for failed basketball clubs or football clubs. Whether 700 euros per employee. I don't know if that information is correct, but in many other companies, employers pay employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12001	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. We're moving on with the subject. The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12002	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, after more than 50 minutes to finally get back on the agenda. If we've waited exactly five years since the signing of the gas-oil deal with Russia, I don't think this 50 minutes is a waste of time and it won't mean anything in the further realization of this project that we're at the beginning. Its beginning is determined precisely by this law that enables us to realize the first step, which is to solve property-legal relations. The solution to legal and property relations in each investment is among other things the hardest job, but as the Chinese proverb says – the journey from a thousand miles begins with the first step, and here. In particular, it is a complex job here because of the fact that it is a line construction facility, an infrastructure building, a length of some 400 or 500 kilometers, on which over 10,000 catastrian plots are located. To continue, if possible, in this respect, the NS parliamentary group considers the proposed law to be the first concrete step in the realisation of this capital international project. In addition to the remarks we heard during the afternoon from authorised applicants, and very few of these debaters who spoke on the basis of the replicas of each other, few were heard and I think it is worth it for the public, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia to note that this law confirmed the economic financial security of all the owners, i.e. the user of the plots on which the route lies, the broad route of the pipeline and that, in terms of establishing the market price of immovableity, it will be fairly determined through the expropriation fee. As far as the following elements contained in this law on expropriation and preparation of property issues are concerned, the question of the realisation of the South Stream gas pipeline, we believe that a definitive and final differentiation has been carried out in Article 4, and a final difference has been made between total expropriation, which we have heard will be applied to only some 45, 46 or 47 hectares of a total few tens of tens of thousands of hectares compared to one which is carried out as incomplete or partial expropriation or that expropriation which will determine the temporary status of access to these parcels to the purpose of some ongoing, or investment maintenance of this pipeline. I think that this law has been quite concrete and directly directed towards the obligations they make to themselves, both the state authorities and the institutions, and the republican, or local, in order to make a faster supply of documentation which, as we know, unfortunately, in our practice is very long, very slow and there is always that bureaucratic, when an ordinary investor appears in front of a counter, it is a famous sentence, or form that is missing, and that is FT1P – you lack one piece of paper. In this case, just by the provisions of this law, I hope that it will be applied both in the future and in, not only to the South Stream pipeline, but also to other gas pipeline systems that will be interconnective with neighbouring countries, Romania, Bulgaria, BiH, Republika Srpska, Macedonia, to deal with property legal issues more quickly in order to allow faster realization. In particular, I say troublesome civil objects that extend a great length, a large direction, that is, these infrastructure objects that are of linear character. I think that the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has also taken a comparative step that is fully compatible with EU regulations on ensuring market security, both the EU itself and the countries applying to EU membership. But I think that only the Ministry of Energy should pay special attention in the future to that lower pressure network that will diverge from this main pipeline, from the high pressure network, in order to allow a steady supply of Serbia's entire territory with gas. Why do I say that? I say for this reason that five years ago, when an oil-gas agreement was signed largely then the idea of both sides and both sides, on both sides, and on the domestic side, that the pipeline is on track, this "South Stream", is headed from Bulgaria via Dimitrovgrad, Piroth, Nis, and then, for all of us, ladies and gentlemen, in 2009, or from the beginning of 2010, it was a shock when we found out about this famous Regulation, the then government of the Republic of Serbia, from October 2009, which adopted a spatial plan of special purposes and envisioned a new route through Zaječar. We don't mind, going through Zaječar, but we believe that in this sense the government was supposed to take more care and make sure that, in order to reduce and cost construction, not only the cost of construction but also later on, the current investment maintenance, that it was a more natural route through the valley and through the river Nisava cauldron, further down South Morava, i.e. in the broad corridor of Corridor 10. This mistake is no doubt impossible to correct now, and we are now where we are. But, therefore, I ask you to, in particular, Madam Minister, pay particular attention to the long-term strategic development plans that "Srbigas", say through several versions offers back a few years, and Mr Bajatovic hopes to confirm whether or not this is true, which, among other things, provides for the construction of gas power plants in the Republic of Serbia and which is in this document, that through the construction of New Belgrade, Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica, Zrenjanin, Subotica, is foreseen for a total of 1470 megawatts, which is electric, which is warm, and that below the Sava, below, what is central Serbia, south of Belgrade, is envisaged to build a total of 320 megawatts of electricity and heat. I ask you – is it in principle that the parity relationship is more than almost 1:5 in terms of energy capacities planned to be built in the Republic of Serbia. Is such a schedule natural and necessary and ultimately, the question arises whether it is normal? I do not dispute that Vojvodina and Novi Sad need electric heat, but whether or not based on what parameters are drawn there in these projects, that it is 300 megawatts of electricity compared to the town of Nis for which only 100 and 100 megawatts of electricity are drawn. If we consider other indicators, demographics, spatial ones, these are cities of the same size, and there's a dead race in those respects and in those parameters. Does this mean that now that there's no wood to cut in Vojvodina, they're going to heat up on gas and produce electricity on gas and produce heat on gas, and we're going down to the south to go into the woods and cut wood? Please, this is an important issue that needs to be clarified and now, I think it's important, because it's not natural to ignore almost four million citizens living south of Belgrade and Sava, and at the expense of these two and a half or three million who are on these geographical and spatial coordinates. I expect one answer that will tell me that this information that I have...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12003	Thank you very much. Time's up. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12004	Just a few things to explain, that track you're talking about, if it wasn't over Nis right now, I'd say, the route across Nis would have made that pipeline 90 kilometers longer and much more expensive and for that reason, that's one of the main reasons why it's not over Nis. When you talk about gas power plants, they're definitely welcome, and where exactly they're going to be fenced, all the ones you've counted, it's a matter of further conversation. When you mention a portion of the Vojvodina, I must remind you, that the Vojvodina is the most gassed, or 95% of the Vojvodina is gassed in that sense, the basis for the construction of gas power plants, and from that point on, it's much simpler than that other part of Serbia where the gasification is somewhere below 40%. Given that we have a national gasification plan and that we have defined ourselves to use that gas, in this sense gas power plants will be. What's important is that it's not just gas power plants, or such cogeneration plants, that produce both heat and electricity, and that's the possibility that they can be more than 90% efficient. We have power plants that are efficient 30, 35, or 45%, and everything else is thrown at us. It is our interest, that we have cogenerative plants, that we have gas power plants, that they be like such plants and normally, to provide each part of Serbia at a more favourable price and heat and electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12005	The word has Dusan Bajatovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12006	The answer was actually given by the minister. I'm a Vojvodina Serb, also a local patriot, but I don't like these discussions about Vojvodina or Nis, where we differ. To be clear, gas stations such a high capacity, I don't know where I told you that, because I've never seen in any official document of the Republic of Serbia that someone made such a distribution of gas power plants. If we're going to make it a cogenerative type, as it is the only and correct approach, so far, the conditions for thermal energy acquisition have only Belgrade and Novi Sad, and it's logical to build there and there are opportunities to bring gas. Nis must still work on the amount of heat that can be taken. Furthermore, we should also take into account the characteristics of the EPS transport system, because we must also take care of it. I suppose somewhere in the centre of Serbia, perhaps a gas plant will be built at Paracino, because they are very flexible, they can iron peaks and so on, and if the promise is kept, but I didn't want to pollute with Mr. Jovanovic, if the gas plants are signed, they're built here, and there's gonna be a race in the region, I'm telling you again, then you'll be able to build them only if you have special gas deliveries, which means the gas that's at a significantly lower price, or the gas where you can produce electricity at market price. Serbia has excellent assumptions, precisely because of this strategic agreement and I think they would do so. So, I just want to say, I don't know where your data came from. I suppose that, in fact, the location of gas stations, the determination of power and everything else will, above all, be the job of the Ministry of Energy, any strategic partners, and eventually the decision will be made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So what you read is simply not so. As for the route, I was in Nis in my time and I tried to explain to people, this route which is now designed is a technical route, because in order for you to sell the pipeline, both Croatians and Bosnians and Hungarians and Italians and Austrians must agree. No one's going to pay the long way of transport, because it's practically a mile away. The second route in Serbia was not even possible. What we pulled out was the maximum length of the course engineering technical in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12007	Thank you. The word is Mr. Rajcic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12008	Thank you. First of all, Madam Minister, I think the length of the route would be good if it were as long as possible. By doing so, you pull the primary platoon as long as you can through your country and you have more capital. After all, we'd pick up a bigger tax every 100 kilometers. Is that right? As far as the data is concerned, where does it come from to build these gas power plants? Of course, at this point neither Belgrade nor Novi Sad have the ability to build these power plants, a cogenerative type for reasons that they do not have simply enough gas capacity, a sufficient amount of gas coming from Hungary. He'll have the moment the South Stream arrives. That is why you have advanced and amputated the city of Nis to participate in the production and construction of these plants in the same way and participates in the entire energy balance of the Republic of Serbia. So the question is, where did I get that data? It is, I see here, a document called strategic projects and a public company called "Srbigas", based on projections by 2015. So you're saying this isn't your document? Then we can take a look at yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12009	Thank you. The word has Mr. Bajatovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12010	As long as it's not disputed, Nis can build a 450 megawatt gas plant tomorrow, plus 150 cogenerations, as far as the amount of gas that can reach the city of Nis. So Nis has not been damaged at all. Besides, "South Stream" when done, the compressor station will be at Paracino's. The amount of gas that the city of Nis will be able to afford, if we have the opportunity to build an industrial or gas plant there, will be more than enough. So, already today, there are all the conditions for a gas plant to be done in Nis as planned. By the way, maybe you got a presentation from someone from Srbigas. "Srbigas", we are almost reregistered for electricity production and at this point official paper "Srbiagas" does not exist on this. We intend to suggest it, but to the Ministry. First of all, the government needs to come up with a proper strategy and know what kind of conditions we're going to have. Maybe someone was doing a presentation, but there's already a thermal power plant in Novi Sad, a heat plant, there's a smaller capacity in Zrenjanin, and in principle, I'd only take advantage of those capacities when there's a problem with the amount of electricity. So, it's quite complex that question, but so that my friends from Nis would not remain denied for an answer, Nis and at this point, there are amounts of gas that he can build a gas station with.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12011	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branislav Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12012	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the South Stream bill is a strategic and important law, because it supports the construction of a pipeline through our country, which is of great national interest. The documentation is being obtained and the ground is being prepared on the pipeline route. The conditions for the start of the pipeline construction are created by the rapid expropriation of land, to get all the necessary permits on that track on which the "South Stream" will be placed. It is necessary to declare the importance of the project of national interest in order to eliminate the possibility of contesting the purchase of private parcels. The South Stream system, parallel to the North Stream system, is being built to strengthen Europe's energy security. This achieves the goals of the Russian company on the one hand, as a supplier and a number of European countries, including Serbia, on the other hand, as a consumer of gas, a very important energy that should also ensure greater sustainability for the development of the northern and southern parts of Europe. In addition to economic reasons, the construction of the South Stream has ecological reasons. The "South Stream" will significantly replace the consumption of coal, oil and other fossil energys, which extremely endanger the environment and which influence the formation of the phenomena of the glass garden, i.e. climate change in the global sense. This will make natural gas a reliable basis for the European energy sector for a long time, and thus also for the energy sector in Serbia. The planned change in the course of Serbia's industry will require greater gas engagement, which can meet the expected rising energy needs. The quality of natural gas influence on the environment is also of particular importance. Among fossil energy sources, natural gas is considered least harmful to nature and the environment, with a percentage of carbon dioxide emissions that is 20% lower than oil. In this respect, the "South Stream" meets international conventions that oblige both Serbia and its legislation on environmental standards. The South Stream pipeline is a strategic project, both in the length of the pipeline and in the capacity, which is transported towards southern and central Europe. Realisation of the South Stream pipeline will allow for the management of modern transport and distribution, reduction of transport tariffs compared to other supply routes, increased employment during construction and exploitation, creation of new social values and higher levels of environmental security, with greater efficiency and reliability of transport. Transit through the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the achievement of connections with the "South Stream" pipeline is a capital gain for energy and the economy of Serbia. Transport technology is at the highest level for this kind of facility. The pipeline is completely independent of other influences in space and is fully automated with safety factors that are first. The energy efficiency of the entire gas system is very high. The pipeline will pass through 21 municipalities and 11 cities, and there are at least 50,000 plots on the track. It's a great opportunity for development and municipalities and the whole country. An idea project and geological research have already been carried out for the route, and a tender for the purchase of large equipment is being prepared. "South Stream" is a project that is not only of international and national importance, but also of gas security for Serbia. The share of gas pipelines across our country is 470km long and will cost a billion and 700m euros. It is expected to get 2,000 people in the construction of South Stream, and the state will have 49% share in ownership. The foundation of the pipeline system of the Republic of Serbia is made up of the Horgos-Senta-Batajnica-Great Plana-Paracin-Pojate and Nis with a system of feed and divorce pipelines and urban distribution networks of medium and low pressure. Today, about 800 industrial and over 240,000 individual consumers are connected to the pipeline system. The next period envisions the construction of new pipelines in Vojvodina, 420km and in central Serbia hundreds of kilometers. A signed memorandum on the construction of the South Stream transport pipeline across Serbia's 500km-long territory, the capacity of a minimum of 300m cubic metres on the day of natural gas is to be realized by 2015, thus achieving other supply principles. The planning and functioning of the "South Stream" pipeline system will be based on the following principles: the principle of sustainable spatial development of energy infrastructure, the principle of reducing the adverse environmental impact, which includes the preservation of safety, improvement and quality of the environment and the principle of the protection of natural resources of natural and cultural heritage. The basic principle of building a large system such as the South Stream pipeline through Serbia is based on standards of the Russian Federation and the EU, with respect for Serbia's spatial development principles. The "Southern It" general goal is to build and function part of the South Stream pipeline through Serbia that will contribute to Serbia's spatial and energy integration into a European environment with a regular, stable and environmentally justified supply of gas from consumers in Serbia and gas transit to Central and Western European countries. The operational objectives are to improve the quality of the environment with the use of gas, the development of infrastructure and to strengthen economic competitiveness and territorial integration with the European environment. Many reasons are to establish political support for the realisation of such a project, which would achieve Serbia's strategic national interests for development in the perspective of European and world standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12013	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12014	The respected presidency, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, today's debate on "South Stream" and the "South Stream" law has been expected in one part of the controversy over what preceded this project, that is, this law and that Serbia has come in a position to find itself on the South Stream track, so I would like to say a few words in favour of this law and in support of the construction of the "South Stream" is one very useful thing for Serbia. Thus, the need for water, food, and energy are today the main challenges in the world, and many wars and many instability in the world revolve around energy, water, and food. Energy needs are growing rapidly every year, forcing Serbia as a country to take care of its energy stability for a long time. The need for renewable sources is also something that has been current for the last decade and will be current and for the next decade, but at this point, according to the forecasts of all world experts in this area, gas needs as an environmentally acceptable energy, which comes from fossil fuels, are at least a priority over the next 50 years. That is why both serious and large EU countries, as great consumers, have come to think of how to ensure their own energy stability and security and the reliable supply of their consumers with sufficient amounts of gas, so they have launched the project, both the North Stream and the Nabucco project and the South Stream project. In 2004 and 2005, the talks on the "Nuguk" and "South Stream" and Serbia, unfortunately, did not take part in these negotiations and was not intended to be a country through which a route and a pipeline would pass, neither the "Nuguk" nor the "South Stream". In 2006, there were first contacts between representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian partner about Serbia being scheduled on the map of construction and the route of the "South Stream" and only thanks to these contacts and the resistance of the then government and prime minister who led the government, Prime Minister Kostunica, there were intense contacts and there was an agreement in 2008, just after the establishment of the joint firm ENI and Gazprom and the agreement made by ENI with Gazprom to build the "South Stream". Just a week after that, Serbia signed an oil-gas agreement with Russia that envisions the construction of the South Stream pipeline through Serbia. Had it not been for that agreement, Serbia would not have been on the South Stream track and we could not have talked at all about any investments, any kind of energy security, security and the supply of our consumers with this energy. So there is a complete replacement of the thesis that Serbia has done itself harm with this project. Unfortunately, the only country that has a minority stake in this business, but Serbia was not meant to be the country through which the South Stream will pass, so it is probably the price that had to be paid in order to even enter and be the country through which the South Stream will pass, and on which basis Serbia will be an energy stable country and collect good income from taxis. Through Serbia, in the original version of "South Stream" was supposed to be 500km long and passing from the Bulgarian side, entering Serbia at Dimitrovgrad, passing the course of Corridor 10 and moving further towards Belgrade, Vojvodina and reaching from Nis towards KIM, Albania, Republika Srpska and Macedonia and Greece. Unfortunately, that original route foreseen for the South Stream was not adopted. I can freely say, while respecting the facts Mr. Bajatovic was saying that EU partners who are the main gas buyers have a lot of influence on the track and determine how much they will be, but I am sure that Serbia might have been better able to tear up in this business and that this route goes through the originally envisaged route. Almost everywhere in the world where infrastructure opportunities exist, routes of such large projects are projected as common and are usually built either parallelly or at least in the same corridor. It is not logical or normal that, at the moment Serbia intensively builds the corridor 10 from Nis towards Greece, it expropriates the land for it, that on the same cost and perhaps the same corridor does not set up the pipeline route, but it is a story that is unfortunately finished. The path is set as set. I don't think there was an adequate study to take into account all these parameters and say what's most favourable for Serbia, how much money would cost that variant compared to the one that's shorter, that goes through Zaječar and Paracino, and it's not in the vicinity of the roads and it's going to be much harder to maintain. The law must respect the fact that more than 50,000 parcels will be expunged and Serbia will have to allocate considerable money on this basis to buy land from owners, to pass through their parcels the South Stream pipeline. In all, 415km of pipeline through Serbia is a significant infrastructure project. The value of building the South Stream pipeline will be over 1.7 billion euros. Related projects that will be implemented along with the implementation of the "South Stream" will be worth about 1.2 billion euros, with respect to underground storage facilities, interconnection with Bulgaria and Romania, and the construction of gas heat, thermal power plants, or co-generative plants that will be worth more than a billion euros. The fact that Serbia also needs the Ministry of Energy to take advantage of that sufficient, or large amounts of gas passing through Serbia should be used to build co-generative facilities so that Serbia and in this part of the supply, in particular its own population, can satisfy electricity. A variety of studies have been done and I have listened to Mr. Bajatovic's controversy and my colleague Rajcic's about planned co-gerative facilities a little while ago. I suppose Mr. Bajatovic knows that the Ministry of Energy ordered a study paid by the USAID American organisation. A study on the construction of a co-generative facility in the city of Nis. The study cost $450,000, and it showed that the optimal solution is 450 plus 150 megawatts of power plant in Nis, so a total of 600 megawatts, and I believe that when the ministry does a study of justification and analysis of what needs to be done and in which places and what strengths should be made of co-erative existence that this fact will be taken into account. It's a multiple benefit to build a pipeline. The Democratic Party of Serbia will, of course, support this law, considering the continuation of those first initial, successful steps by bringing "South Stream" to Serbia that will naturally benefit the population, 200m dollars per year of minimum transit, more than three billion euros through investments, which through related projects, energy security and stability and a significant factor in supply, a regional factor in the supply of surrounding gas markets. So, Serbia should take this opportunity to make as many investments as possible to the South Stream pipeline as possible, to make as much of its construction operations as possible and to use, of course, through the construction of the South Stream later on, the amounts of gas it will receive for the production of electricity and heat. Thus, the population of Serbia will also win, as the price of gas will be significantly lower, due to the lack of transport costs to be paid to other countries. So, all in all, regardless of the objections that could be heard that it was a harmful agreement for Serbia to take over NIS, when all the facts are taken into account, it is quite clear that this project is of paramount importance for Serbia's development, it brings far greater benefits than it would possibly be damage to the sale of NIS. So the overall benefit for Serbia is multiple and, in that sense, the DSS will support, of course, in the voting day, vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12015	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12016	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the establishment of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation to realize the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream". What I want to say at the very beginning is to go back and, given that there have already been words during today's debate on the agreement, to say that the SPS parliamentary club in 2008 supported the proposal for a bill to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy. At that time, we made it very clear that we believe that this is one of Serbia's best strategic projects, that we should not miss this chance, that it should be used, because the realisation of the agreement as a whole will make Serbia not only energyy enough but also interesting to a number of potential investors. The agreement gives Serbia great energy stability, but also a leading position in the gas economy, oil production. Most importantly, it may not matter to some parliamentary groups and it doesn't matter, but we also care about the strategic partnership with Russia. In the long term, the agreement we adopted in 2008 is won by Serbia for general support in the Republic of Parliament. What are the concrete results of this agreement? Gas shelter Banatski Dvor, reconstruction and modernisation of NIS and part of the European gas pipeline, which means big investments and employment and long-term income, i.e. profits for Serbia. The bill we are talking about today should speed up land expropriation and obtain documentation for the construction of a share of the international pipeline through Serbia. The adoption of the law is necessary because we are talking about an extremely important single project, as stated among other things in the light of this legislative proposal. The existing legislation has created a number of obstacles to its implementation. The specific rules for land expropriation on the pipeline route are laid down here, covering about 10,000 parcels. The land owners' fee is determined in accordance with the Expropriation Act and I am convinced of what the Minister said, that citizens will not be damaged because there will be clear and precise rules. They won't be damaged, but they won't get rich. On the other hand, it should be kept in mind that this is a national interest. The adoption of the law creates conditions for the start of the construction of pipelines with accompanying facilities, and that has already been the case. What is essential after the adoption of this legislative proposal, Serbia is ready to start building this extremely important energy project. This means the maximum engagement of Serbian construction operations and, on the other hand, the maximum engagement of the service sector. Over the next two years, some estimates of between 600m and 800m euros will include a domestic construction operation on the project. Serbia has reason to count on economic growth because of this project, due to the "South Stream". After completing the money from the "South Stream" taxi, it also gives us a favourable climate for investment and for consumers. When the first phase is completed, 60 billion cubic metres of gas will pass through the system annually. The end of "South Stream" is a guarantee of a better quality of supply, a price, but as a colleague and energy stability just said. The share that passes through Serbia will be 470km long, will pass through 21 municipalities, through 11 cities and the state will have 49% share in ownership. Once again, I would like to say at the very end that the MPs of the SPS in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12017	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Djukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12018	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as is known, Serbia entered the project in 2008, when an oil-gas agreement was signed, and the goal, deadlines and way of implementing the South Stream project was envisaged and set out in the agreement, as well as subsequent negotiations by foreign participants in the implementation of this project. One of the biggest problems we face in the construction of the South Stream pipeline is in fact the problem of land and land ownership where the pipeline route will pass, as well as the temporary use of land to build pipelines. For the purpose of building an expropriation process, it would be practically the only way to acquire land rights. In order for all problems to be solved before they arise, it is necessary to adopt this law. This law provides for the creation of conditions for the construction and implementation of the system, the South Stream pipeline, which will be of great importance for the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Why? The law defines the public interest in expropriation, incomplete expropriation and temporary takeover of land on which the "South Stream" pipeline would be built, as well as the accompanying facilities necessary for the installation, use and later, of course, maintenance of the pipeline. In this law, the company "South Stream" doo Novi Sad defines itself as a user of expropriation, i.e. incomplete expropriation, and temporary land takeover, and thus this company assumes all rights and obligations and responsibilities of users. This would mean that a local self-government company can apply for expropriation, as well as other land needs needed to build and operate the South Stream pipeline. It is also foreseen that the competent authorities issue without delay acts on the construction of the pipeline, for which the application was submitted, with the establishment of the company to pay the prescribed fees and fees. Another essential feature of this law is that all requests for these items will be resolved by a shortened administrative procedure. In the time of the crisis in which Serbia is located, the most important thing is that the adoption and implementation of this law do not require financial resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The pipeline construction project is a project of national importance for Serbia, as during its construction, the capacity of the construction industry will be employed, which means that Serbian businesses will do all the work on gas pipelines for which they have the necessary qualifications. Of course, economic development will be accelerated, and by realising the project itself, Serbia will become one of the most important energy states in the Balkans. There are expectations that when the "South Stream" is built, Serbia will have an annual income of around 600m euros from a gas transit taxi, which would be a significant contribution to filling the Republic of Serbia's budget and, of course, what we mentioned here today, another benefit from this project is that we are supposed to have a more favourable price of gas. In addition to this, by passing the law and its entry into force, conditions would be created for the start of the "South Stream gas pipeline", of course, with all the following facilities, which would encourage the economic development of the Republic of Serbia in many ways. That is why we believe that in the voting day this law should be supported, because such a unique project will bring both financial and economic improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12019	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12020	Madam Minister, Madam Vice-President, fellow MPs, in today's debate, much has been said about the positive effects or at all about the effects of such an oil-gas agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation, and those well-intentioned and unwittingly different interpretations of the ownership structure, the effects that we received on the basis of the privatisation of NIS, revenue in the budget and all that followed and the dispute, but in most cases by the MPs support the 2008 agreement. It is not only the financial effects of those who need to point out the importance and the positive side of this agreement. You, Madam Minister, said at one point the two qualifications I support, which are stability and security, including stability and security, and that stability and security in the domain and economic security and stability and in the domain, if you will, national security and stability. Had there not been an agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation in this domain, as planned by the EU itself, which had an idea of how to solve its gas supply problems or how to solve the problem of its gas diversification, we would have had, that the Nabucco concept had been revived, a project aimed at bypassing Serbia. All who followed the controversy or the development of the idea saw that it was about to bypass Serbia's border. The agreement signed with the Russian Federation, the EU's intention not to provide Serbia, is exactly what it has provided. He has ensured that Serbia gets a stable gas supply and becomes, let's say, one of the most important segments on the road to the South Stream pipeline. There is no need to repeat here the parts of the discussions concerning the energy strategy that defines gas as Serbia's most important energy source in the 21st century. There's no need to talk about how much gas demand will grow. That's what my colleagues used to talk about. I want to point to a segment that I think is also important. The fact that Serbia will be an important hub on the South Stream pipeline, that it will provide a large number of surrounding countries with gas, puts the issue and the national security of Serbia first, not only the Serbian state itself, but also the gas user in the environment, as well as all those countries directly involved in the construction of the "South Stream". One of the essential positive aspects of this agreement is that Serbia's national security will be strengthened. Certainly, such a significant project, which depends on the lives of millions of people in different countries, will raise the level of our security that we will never be able to get into a situation as bombed as it was in 1999. In addition, the fact that Serbia's stability depends on supplying a large number of countries in the region will allow Serbia to strengthen its security through co-operation with other countries and that they will have an interest in Serbia's stability and that the security risks and threats that Serbia's state today is at risk from different sides will be greatly reduced, as no one will be in the interest of Serbia being a non-secure and unstable state when it depends on gas flow towards the largest number of countries its users. This aspect is the aspect of economic security and stability that we will achieve by solving gas supply, that we will no longer be exposed to the problems that we have now been exposed to. Of course, those involved in national security policies should also be encouraged to keep an eye on their strategic plans in which they define the state, because all of this is highly connected and all of this is very complex that national security is difficult today in the modern world to imagine without energy security and economic security. In this sense, this aspect of this agreement is extremely important, in addition to deepening our country's co-operation with the Russian Federation, which has since begun to consider and develop a number of other projects with the Russian Federation and in the perspective we expect to deepen co-operation with the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, which would help our economy come out of the situation it is in today. In that sense, our parliamentary group will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12021	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12022	The Honorable Chairman, your Honorary Minister, my statement on the proposed law will be exclusively from the aspect of the procedural nature of this law and the procedural and legal reference to the essence of what the law provides, so before today in the principle debate some authorised representatives have combined certain and doubts and dilemmas in this law. The question is raised from the point of view of these dilemmas, i.e. doubts and since the proposed law regulates issues which are otherwise regulated by other laws – the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Expropriation, the Law on the Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations and the Law on Administrative Procedure. An ordinary Serbian citizen would ask a question, given the number of laws and legal acts, why do we need this law? An even more logical answer to that same question is that it is precisely this law that is necessary, like "ex specialis", or a special law that regulates the matter that is just the subject of today's debate. If it comes from that – what it means to expropriate, to establish public interest, to place burdens, or to act on immovable property, then the next answer should be given to an ordinary citizen. First of all, this law is an armed duration, so it has a certain duration of time and its importance extends only for as long as it takes to implement the implementation of the "South Stream" natural gas transport system. During this time of law enforcement, procedures for expropriation, determination of public interest and temporary take-up of immovableity will be carried out through an accelerated procedure, in any case, simplified and far cheaper. This procedure is already prescribed by the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, however, these provisions do not bring and do not contribute to the effective implementation of these procedures. In these proceedings now participates the holder of the expropriation, which is a newly formed or newly established society, which has the same name – "South Stream". It is this limited liability company, as a business entity, that will be the initiator of the proceedings, in particular the procedure of expropriation, to acquire property rights on immovable property, which will be in the function of building a gas transport system, and thus regulate property-legal relations. In order to remove any doubt or dilemma from all Unbelievers Tom, with regard to the establishment of property rights, those legal norms and provisions which are defined, firstly, the market value of immovableity, and this market value of immovableity is given by the Tax Administration, based on the parameters used to determine the basis for tax accounting. There is absolutely no possibility of anyone being in any way damaged. It is also the process of incomplete expropriation, through the constitution of burdens and the burden is called service, so that those who will suffer the burden of service will be completely compensated. What are the officialities? Usual citizens and how well they know that these facilities also require access routes, that land is also needed for the regular use of buildings, that land that will be burdened with some other types of use is also needed. For all these loads, so-called. In principle, restrictions on the service, that the cadastral parcels covered by this project are used as optimally as possible and that their owners are able to feel as painlessly as possible. What is very important in the end is that this whole procedure could have been carried out in the usual procedure. If we had implemented it in the usual procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the Planning Act, we would have come to an enormous problem because they would not have applied the provisions so-called. A shortened administrative procedure, and this shortened administrative procedure precisely implies that construction, location and other permits are issued as quickly as possible, more effectively and for that, normally, as is said today, or defined, there are certain means of security. It is not true that unless a copy of the cadastre is submitted, or evidence is provided that money has been provided to start the expropriation, that it is at the same time a trap in which eventually the owners of the cadastrian parcels would be, possibly or not God forbid, deceived. No, it absolutely doesn't stand, because other security means are used for these situations, such as bonds and mesmerized covers, publishing rights, or mortgages, so there's absolutely no concern about what's being set up today as a dilemma. What is most important to point out from the application of this law is that this law has already come from another legal norm. It is an agreement that the Republic of Serbia has concluded with Russia and, according to the agreement, we are now carrying out a kind of obligation. By adopting this law, parliament, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, implemented an agreement that ended with Russia. Since I have been looking at this whole situation from a legal point of view, that I am not an economist, I will not engage in economic categories and economic effects of this law, although they are undoubtedly clear, starting from the engagement of a construction operation in the construction of the South Stream, the employment of the workforce, the fill of budgets, the engagement of economy and economic resources at local self-government units, all of these are the positive effects my colleagues have discussed, so I have no need to comment on this in particular. Finally, what has been pointed out precisely for these reasons and the reasons that have been presented, the SPS will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12023	The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the importance of "South Stream" has today been a lot of words and I won't be long on it. It will be the beginning of a major investment, with a huge impact on the future economic development of our country. It will run a good part of Serbia's economy, and around 2,000 workers will be directly involved in the work, indirectly and more, domestic construction operations, the construction industry and employment will be employed. That's enough reason for this project to get special status. Serbia needs investments and investors over. As a state, we must be prepared to meet the high criteria and requirements of such an investment. This project is complex and specific by its many characteristics. Unfortunately, the existing legal framework in certain segments creates obstacles to its implementation within the envisaged deadlines. It was therefore necessary to find solutions that would overcome existing obstacles. In this way, we will be able to respond quickly and effectively to the requirements that such an investment puts before us. The construction of the "South Stream" through Serbia will be a sort of test for our country and will show how ready we are to meet the high criteria of large investments. We can't embarrass ourselves, we have to show we're at the height of the mission. The adoption of this law will create conditions for the construction of the South Stream to be implemented quickly and efficiently. I sincerely hope that we will succeed and send a good signal from Serbia to future investors, which we really need, in order to hire people. Of course, in the future, we remain to do everything to remove the many bureaucratic problems we have and to regulate our legislation so that Serbia becomes a favourable place to invest. We're about to have a big investment in Al Dahra. The Ministry of Energy has made a list of major priority projects. It will be difficult to realise them quickly and efficiently, unless we simply break red tape and create a favourable investment environment. The South Stream will also pass through the Kovin municipality from which I come. We're proud of it. I hope we do everything we can to make this investment happen in our community as well. We also have two major investments in the field of energy, which can give our municipality a great chance. It is therefore necessary to create such legal conditions that future investments can be realised successfully. The "South Stream" will in some ways be a test and a signal to other investors that Serbia is a favourable place to invest. That is why I sincerely hope that this investment will be implemented quickly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12025	MP Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12026	Dear Madam Minister, representatives of the government, the Honorable President and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the South Stream project is of strategic importance for our country and certainly has the character of the project of national importance and is in line with what the DSS is talking about. The law on the agenda today speaks of technical things to speed up the implementation of the South Stream project through Serbia. In the basic data on the South Stream pipeline itself, we heard so much about several tens of thousands of parcels passing through, over 30,000 hectares of land that will be exploited, from dynamics when the first phase should be completed and when more than 30 billion cubic metres of gas would reach South Europe in the first phase, etc. In any case, it should be pointed out that the creation of a spatial plan of the area of special purpose for the part through which the South Stream pipeline is passing is prepared and completed, and it was the basis for this spatial plan to prepare this law that lies before us. The "South Stream" is certainly one of the biggest investment projects in the last few decades here in Serbia and the DSS strongly supports the realization of this project, and above all I can say that my heart is a lot in the sense that the government, led by Vojislav Kostunica, has actually started this project and laid the foundations for what we are doing today through this so-called "Such". A gas deal between Serbia and the Russian Federation. By building "South Stream", Serbia becomes an energy force, where we strengthen our political and geostrategic position. We have heard so much about the benefits of realising this project, from hundreds of millions of euros of transit taxis for this pipeline through Serbia, to reducing the energy dependence of RS compared to this one gas stream that we currently have, over a few thousand people who will be employed on this project, using or employing domestic building operations, and we should also point out the ecological dimension of natural gas that we have heard today, probably in some part by reducing the price, manage to make use of this gas as much as possible, to replace the mule and coal that pollute our environment very much. It should be said that through the investment "Gasproma", through NIS we are coming to the development of domestic economy, i.e. to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises that are based on NIS. The existence of this "South Stream" pipeline provides a stable and long-term development of the economy, primarily of the manufacturing industry, which is important for the RS to run and continue the course for which the DSS established the foundations. The main shareholders of South Stream are Gazprom, a 50% Italian company, 20% and 15% German and French companies. Behind them are the governments of their countries. It is important to point out that Serbia is also working with these EU countries in any case, although we are not EU members, which is very good. Serbia needs foreign investors, such as Gazprom. Extremely large world-renowned companies that can bring their fresh capital to Serbia and invest in new projects in Serbia and also invest that money that could possibly be very easy under favourable conditions on the global financial market to invest in Serbia and be the engine for the development of our economy. It is also important to respect these investors through stable institutions and clear arrangements, to respect the conditions given when these investors came to the country. I refer to this gas agreement and the foundations that it has set. By not doubting any moment, or by supporting the complete South Stream project, which is extremely important for Serbia, I might ask a question – why are we trying to speed up something in this period, that is, by adopting a "lex specialis" law? The DSS fully advocates that the implementation of the "South Stream" is resolved in the fastest possible way, but it is certainly necessary to pass some system laws, to set legal frameworks in relation to the Law on state diameter and cataster and the Law on Expropriation, the Law on Planning and Construction, and not every time it is necessary for individual capital projects to pass specific laws. In the opening part, the minister said it took several months to prepare this law. And we're late here somewhere. I believe that we have a quality legal framework and the system laws that I have mentioned, and if we had changed them in that sense, we would surely have made it much easier to pass such laws as would in part recognise the public interest. Also, if we've defined some capital projects, if we know what our goal is and what our idea is, then we have to determine the public interest throughout the gasification process. When we were doing the previous pipeline, I heard it on the board, there was a public interest in part of Nis to Vranja, but when we were working through Zlatibor, where I came from, between Užica and Nova Varoshi we had big problems in solving property-legal relations and we couldn't deal with it for long. I believe that certainly for some capital projects, such as complete gasification, what we stand for, as the minister said, we should establish public interest. Negotiations on the implementation of the "South Stream" began with the DSS, as my colleague said, we were able to agree that the South Stream pipeline would go through Serbia. This resulted in "Gasprom" arrival and an increase in investment in Serbia. We acted as a shortcut to go to Republika Srpska and in this part to strengthen the Republic of Serbia economically and energy, which is in the interest of RS, the development of the NIS-related sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. And there's this Banatski Dvor warehouse, where we could store these extra amounts of gas flying, and in some future period, we could achieve a higher price and sell it. We provide stable gas supplies throughout Serbia. This is a strategic project not only for Serbia but also for Europe and the alternative in that part, given that there is a problem between Russia and Ukraine over the passage of gas across Ukraine, so this is an alternative and it is very important. Stronger economic and political influence, which one of my colleagues spoke of. We become part of a transnational system, transiting energy through Serbia, and thus safeguarding national security through these infrastructure projects. I must point out that we need to know and see that it was a clear desire, intention and goal of the RS government led by the DSS to create a long-term strategy to ensure national security. (President: Time. Thank you. One more sentence... and the stability of the country through this project and that we need to know that even in 2008, the goal and strategy that the DSS wanted to lead the country was seen. So, to lay these foundations both in the country's energy, economic and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12027	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12028	Like you, I think we need to pass the system laws and use the existing laws we have. The reason you asked as a question – why now this law and why "lex specialis", I tried to explain it several times and I will repeat it – because we certainly need to speed up the process and we need to create conditions so that the "South Stream" can be built. When it comes to land, there are huge problems in Serbia and it would not last for years, not one, two, three, but five, six, seven, eight, nine years. For that reason, this bill is before you. When you mentioned Nis-Wrath, it was a highway pipeline, so for that reason it is a general interest. When you mentioned this second gas pipeline Koserić-Užička Požega-Zlatibor, I will remind you that it was done without permission, so when doing something without permission, then we have a situation that four years cannot be allowed to work. Now, as Ministry, we're going to make a proposal to the government to sort this out through the government's conclusion, because eventually that pipeline is also needed. So this bill is here to speed up the process. Of course, there are certain suggestions. Some suggestions will be accepted through amendments and I believe we will pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12029	The word has the People's MP Bojana Bozanic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12030	I thank the Minister for his reply. I would certainly like to appeal in this way, not only for this law, but I have already said that we should take care of these system laws and deal with these things in order to really create a quality legal framework and that we should not, in this way, pass laws, fully agree that we need to speed up and make it happen as soon as possible, but to deal with these things in the next period and define what infrastructure projects they are. So, in the next period, four, five, ten years, as we did when the government of Vojislav Kostunica, whose prime minister was Vojislav Kostunica, was when we simply defined which projects, namely this project "South Stream", defined relations between Serbia and Russia compared to the oil and gas economy. I'm glad I can see that it's one continuity and that this project that's well-established continues. So any foundation that is well set, which is quality, will be able to serve for some other projects. I thank you and hope that this project will be implemented very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12031	The word has a People's MP Ivana Dinic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12032	Dear President, Madam Minister, honourable representatives of the ministry, respected fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, we have before us a proposal for a law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation to realize the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream". I come from the southeastern part of Serbia, from Nis, and I think this is one project of great importance for the development of the southern and southeastern parts of Serbia, but also for the whole of Serbia and the region. The proposed law is a special, special law and by all means unique in the legal procedure. So, the adoption of this law for our country is immeasurable, because the benefit achieved by the realisation of the natural gas transport system "South Stream" project is enormous and in the economic situation, in which Serbia is, long-term and multiple. The proposed law from the legal point of view is mostly procedurally legal, as it regulates the procedure for determining the public interest, expropriation and obtaining documentation to implement the project mentioned. In this respect, it should be pointed out that the essence of this law is procedures, which, in relation to regular procedures of public interest, expropriation and obtaining documentation, involve simpler, faster and cheaper procedures. What is of great importance is that the adoption of this law begins the realisation of the common objectives of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation set out in the Law confirming the Agreement concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the Oil and Gas Economy. This law stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation will provide assistance in the design, construction and use of buildings under the realisation and project of the Master's Gas System on construction from the Russian Federation to the Black Sea, the territory of third countries and the Republic of Serbia for transit and delivery of natural gas to other countries of Europe and construction on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This project is specific and very complex by its many characteristics, and since this is the first project of this kind and scope in the Republic of Serbia, the existing legal framework in certain segments creates obstacles to the implementation of the project within the envisaged deadlines. It is therefore necessary to find a solution which will overcome the existing obstacles and implement the project within and as provided for in the provisions of that Agreement. In order to overcome the observed obstacles without infringing the existing system established by the applicable regulations, and by amending and supplementing a number of regulations, it is necessary to pass a special law that prescribes specific rules applicable exclusively to this project. Such regulation would create a framework for the smooth implementation of the natural gas transport system "South Stream". Therefore, a law is necessary to establish specific rules of complete expropriation which leads to the acquisition of property on expropriated immovableities by users of expropriation, then incomplete expropriation that leads to the acquisition of a permanent right of service on exploited immovableities, and thus temporary occupation for the needs of construction. The user of the expropriation shall have all the rights, obligations and responsibilities provided for in the Expropriation Act and the provisions of this law. In order to protect the right of interest of the owner of the land, as regards the determination of the expropriation fee, the relevant provisions of the applicable Expropriation Act should be left unchanged for reasons which have proved to be good protection of the owner of the immovable property against the will of the investor, regardless of the state interest in the construction. What is also necessary to regulate is the issue of obtaining appropriate building permits, but given the specificity of the building being built and the specific right of investors, on the one hand, rather than changing the essence of the existing system of permits, on the other hand. Therefore, in order to more effectively realise the overall project of building a natural gas transport system "South Stream" it is necessary to prescribe certain precisions and deviations in certain stages of work, shorter deadlines for all bodies involved in the implementation of the project and the urgency to prevent adverse consequences that can arise as a result of the postponement of the start of the construction of the natural gas transport system "South Stream". The application of this law creates real conditions for the construction and implementation of this project for the reasons that the adoption of it can overcome existing problems in the form of a legal framework defined by already established regulations and thus enable the development of an international pipeline project on our country's territory. This government of the Republic of Serbia has since the first day of its work, so far, shown its consistency and capacity in every effort to raise the state to a higher level of development, both economically and economically. With EU intervention, the status of the Republic of Serbia has been raised to the highest political level. With its work, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made a valuable foreign policy breakthrough in the most significant national and international issues and has shown by its continuity that there will be no gap between words and deeds, and thus its willingness to preserve the integrity and sovereignty of the state in the current situation. The draft law that lies before us today represents a very important part of the project to build an international pipeline, and it is of great importance to launch a new kind of energy development in our country. Given the seriousness of the project, the government of the Republic of Serbia has provided all conditions for the implementation of the project, bank guarantees and money needed for construction in 2013. The government of the Republic of Serbia's responsibility shows its readiness to join international flows in this way. Realising this project will make the Republic of Serbia one of the most important energy hubs in the Balkans, but also wider. The project also depicts a good relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia has people, personnel and businesses capable of carrying out a large part of these works and employing a large number of workers and equipment. In order to monitor the realisation and construction of the "South Stream" natural gas transport system, the government of the Republic of Serbia will establish a working body that will form representatives of energy, finance, construction and spatial planning ministries after the entry into force of this law. What is very important for our country is that the adoption and implementation of this law does not require funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The benefits and economic effects of applying this law to Serbia are multiple positive, which are: the engagement of a construction operation with the employability of a large number of long-term workers; the completion of the Republic of Serbia's budget by charging various charges charged by users of expropriation; the addition of gas to international gas pipelines in the Republic of Serbia, which ensures the long-term energy stability of our country due to the broad spectrum of gas use as raw materials, as energy for heating, as an alternative fuel, in the chemical industry as a source of hydrogen in the production of nitrogen. A greater amount of gas, apart from energy security, also promises competitiveness, both on the European and on our market later, which should allow for greater benefit from the energy price, an increase in security, as well as quality in gas supply, regulation of property property property and legal relations, as well as the establishment of co-ownership stakes in companies that will be established for the realisation of the Agreement with the Russian Federation or, more specifically, the company that will deal with the construction of the natural gas route through the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In view of all the facts and responsibilities taken by this bill by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has shown its ability to do so through its programme objectives, the SPS will support this draft law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the delivery of documentation in order to realise the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream", in the hope that the conditions for the start of the "South Stream" pipeline will be created as soon as possible and the implementation of a single project in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12033	Thank you. Mr. Andric isn't here? No, I don't. ) Mr. Chizik is next reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12034	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the field of oil and gas industry, has been prescribed by the parties to assist in the construction and use of the South Stream Project. Such projects do not know the state borders. This pipeline passes through many countries, through many state borders. The total project value is more than 16 billion euros, and from that the portion that passes through our country is worth somewhere between 1.7 billion and 2 billion euros. The importance of this project is enormous, above all for Europe and also for our country, for Serbia. I'm under the impression that humanity is expending its energy in the bahato, and we need to know that natural gas reserves, i.e. methane are not unlimited, are very limited and will be spent within a certain time limit. I think the construction of this pipeline is quite late, it's being built in 15 to 12. The reason is that Europe wants to use its part of the cake from those gas resources before the Chinese spend it all. We're lucky we're on the road, we're on the track of that pipeline, and the normal thing is that it's a great opportunity for our country to reduce unemployment and to build some facilities that are supplied with natural gas. We need to know that methane, natural gas is not only energy, but is also a significant raw material for the chemical industry. Methane is made of many significant chemical raw materials. It is very important that this will provide an opportunity to gas the southern part of Serbia, to reduce unemployment. In addition to all these positive sides, of course this project has certain negative sides. I have to, unfortunately, talk about those negativity. First of all, one of the weak sides that almost all the speakers in front of me said were these property relations, that famously 49% to 51%. It's even worse, even harder if we're watching other participants in the South Stream project. All other countries have a fifti-fifti relationship, i.e. they have equal relations, and only Serbia has remained in such a relationship, in a minority relationship. The other negative we see is that all these negotiations, talks and agreements, or agreements, have been held without question by the Duke. So all the institutions of the AP Vojvodina have been bypassed in this South Stream as well as in the sale of the Oilagas, which you call NIS. Another negative thing I have to mention is oil rent. That oil rental usually goes up to 20%, and we're at 3%. It was said of 5%, 9%, possibly 9%, and in some normal countries even up to 20%, and here, probably, as we can see, it's going to stay at 3%, which is very low. Because of all this, this maternal relationship to the AP, the LSV, in the voting day, cannot support this item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12035	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12036	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, representatives of the ministry, today we have the Law on determining the public interest and special procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation to realize the construction of the South Stream gas transport system and it is clear that today is not on the agenda for the adoption of the agreement that we had in 2008. I would remind the DS that it supported the implementation of the South Stream Project, which was a majority partner in the government that negotiated the agreement, a majority partner in the government who signed this agreement, and after that was part of the majority that voted with Russia on "South Stream". The significance of this agreement is triple, at least triple. This agreement is important for economic reasons, energy and security. Economic because it is quite clear that the state of Serbia will make significant revenues based on the taxis it takes to pass this pipeline through our country's territory. The very investment that will be over 1.7 billion euros will mean serious jobs for our construction operation, and these are purely clear economic reasons. Security reasons for the adoption of such an agreement are also clear. Security cannot be separated from energy today and no one can feel safe if there are no serious energy sources provided, and this agreement further strengthens Serbia's energy security. The energy target is quite clear - the purest source of energy at, hopefully, the more favourable prices, and we are sure that after this pipeline is built, the price will be lower. What DS puts as an objection to this bill is, I think, incomplete text, not precise enough, with a lot of gaps. We have submitted a number of amendments and we expect, Madam Minister, for you to come forward about these amendments, so that we know if we will support this text of the Expropriation Act. We believe that although you said that this text was prepared for several months, we do not think that it was the best way to ensure that citizens feel safe about whether or not the right way will be provided for the property they will hand over to the use or ownership of society. Why am I saying this? At the Committee on Economy, the ministry's representative said the length of the pipeline would be 450km, that some 10,000 parcels would enter the expropriation process, eight thousand hectares is a narrow zone of expropriation, and 230 hectares of a complete zone of expropriation and that funds from eight to 24m euros are needed. On that occasion, we heard that a 70m-euro guarantee was provided. Today, we hear from one of the ruling majority MPs that they are not provided with funds, but that they will only be provided. Because of citizens who, in the end, should be the ones most protected by the law, which any law MPs in the National Assembly bring to the most, they should be sure that the proposed solution will be most favourable for them. We make objections to Article 6 and Article 10. We believe that there are changes needed to remove these remarks we're talking about. Article 6 states that the proposal for expropriation is not being submitted to the execution of the opponent of the proposal. We believe this is quite a restrictive solution and there is no reason why at least a minimum deadline should not be left to the opponent of the expropriation to plead. It can be a few days, and it doesn't have to be an obstacle to the speed of realization of this project. In Article 10(3), it is also said, this is also our key observation on this proposal, that the company can deliver an expropriation solution without providing evidence that it has provided money at the level of the market value of immovable property. If funds are provided for the realization of this project, including expropriation, then why is this in the text? Citizens feel insecure about this. I think we should accept the proposal to complete this part, simply to make sure that the citizens will receive compensation for their property that they are entitled to and use, or as a lasting value to society. If there are funds, there is no reason not to write it in the law and there is no reason not to accept the DS amendment, which wants this law to be in line with the Constitution of Serbia, to comply with all the system laws, and most of all wants citizens to be absolutely sure that they will receive the just compensation for the funds they need to be paid. Because it seems to me that in Serbia today there is great uncertainty in citizens, that there is a lot of difficulty living, that there are a lot of difficult economic opportunities, and we do not think that we are going to fix these solutions. We must remove this uncertainty primarily through the institutions of the state, through this Parliament. If we accept an amendment that's only for the benefit of citizens, no party, I think we're going to make the citizens feel safer, feel safer and feel more secure about their assets and, let me say, some economic position they're in. I'll remind you one more time, it's 10,000 families whose assets need to cross this pipeline's path. I don't think it's right for us to get over this easily. I think we need to find a solution, sort of alter these two attitudes. In that case, DS MPs will, of course, support this bill because we think this is also a system project, that this is a system thing, because we have started this project and we want it to end and implement it properly. It won't be the right thing to do if one citizen is unhappy with the procedure that has been hurt and the procedure for which he is damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12037	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12038	Thanks for the suggestions. At the very beginning, today when I was speaking and making opening statements about this bill, I thanked all the benevolent not only criticism, but also for the contribution. Thank you especially for the Members of the 6th and 10th because I believe the DS will vote in favour of this bill, because we will certainly classify your suggestions from the amendment, so on Article 6 and Article 10, because I believe and can agree on one thing, that the citizens of Serbia have been for years and have often been deceived. So that we may not be and think that they may be deceived, I completely agree that we should put in, or accept your two amendments. But I have one more thing. Since you're talking about the full area of expropriation, you've given one false piece of information. So the total expropriation zone isn't 200 and a few acres, as you said, but it's 45 acres. That's one thing. The second thing is about guarantees, so the Budget Law envisions 75m euros. You need to know that it's that 49% actually, and that it's still so provided by the Russian side through the South Stream company. Just for the sake of information, you have that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12039	Replica, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12040	I thank you for accepting our suggestions. I'll say something about the wrong information I had. I heard him yesterday on the board. So yesterday on the Committee is said – 230 hectares of total expropriation. That's what I mentioned in my speech. So, I didn't know that, because you still don't know, there's no clear route, at least in public, so you don't even know how much that expropriation zone is. That's what I heard on the board yesterday. I've repeated that information. You were not present, but were present as representatives of the Ministry. As far as the past is concerned, of course, citizens have been deceived often. I don't think that's supposed to happen anymore, that it needs to be fixed. Of course, citizens were insecure in the near past. When we passed the Amnesty Act, the citizens were uncertain whether their property would be safe. It's also another kind of uncertainty. I think we could have avoided that. Now, if you accept these suggestions, we will avoid being insecure and due to this law of expropriation. I thank you for that. In that case, DS MPs will support this law and we will drop the debate further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12041	National MP Maja Gojkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12042	Thank you. Dear President, Madam Minister, we have been attending a truly comprehensive debate all day about this very important bill. I won't take much time because, first of all, I want to thank you, as a minister, and your associates for really spending the whole day here in Parliament with us, listening to all the suggestions, all the discussions, and those who had no understanding of this bill. I would especially like to thank you for having done everything possible to reach a multi-party consensus now at the end of this session and for having just expressed your wish to propose to the Government to adopt amendments to one of the opposition parties, in order to support as many MPs in this House your bill. My pleasure is also that I am an MP from Novi Sad, from Vojvodina, and I want to assure you that there are MPs in this House who express the views of the people of Vojvodina who are extremely pleased that this law is also very much, I consider it to be a premeditation of the construction of the "South ton", that you have done these preparatory actions and that it is simply waiting for the green light now and Parliament to adopt it and that it is quite certain that the construction of the "South ton" will soon begin, as we have heard from the director of Serbiaagas, who even said here courageously and some of the date of this year. So it is clear that this law confirms that this investment is of national importance and that what has been carried out in public in recent months from not so well-intentioned people, that until the construction of the "Southern It" will not come at all, this is what you have completely divorced. This law, which we can call lex specialis, has done everything possible to reduce certain procedures that in some similar cases have really shown their negativity. So, you've cut deadlines for obtaining building permits, for obtaining certain environmental permits, which is extremely good. The basic goal I see here being implemented and what has caused a little more controversy is actually to shorten the expropriation process. I think that this bill was actually meant for the owners of parcels through which they would cross these laid pipes or build compressor stations, so they couldn't, in the future, cut the price at which the country would settle. We know that there have been such abuses in the Kolubara case, in other words, our people have this manner of saying that something worth two or three thousand euros, when they sense that a large investment is at stake or an investor who has an exceptional money that will invest in that investment, raises even to 25,000 euros. It should also be taken into account that such parcels have 10,000 and I personally think that there may be five or six times more because the whole of Serbia has been paved out and that it was simply necessary to propose such a law which is lex specialis and to reduce to the maximum possible extent all these deadlines but also the price that is set by this law and to be subject to some tax authorities that will determine exactly what the price is. In the end, I want to say that this is the issue of expropriation that you predicted, so it only applies to the construction of compressor stations and to the rest of the land does not apply even though the South Stream will pass there, it will only apply to the right to use, it will still be able to continue the land owners to process it as before they gave up this land. What is very important is that in the voting day, all MPs think about how important this is a national and large investment, which is that building the first phase in our country will bring revenue, unless I am wrong about 200m euros, and that the whole investment, or the value of the route that will pass through Serbia, is 1.7 billion dinars. It's one of the biggest investments in our country. So I call on all MPs in this House to see it this way, economically, in the national interest of our country, and not on some of our perhaps political differences on some other issues. In any case, since you will also adopt amendments to individual parliamentary groups, there will be no reason for us to reach a consensus in this parliament in the voting day, and most MPs to support this proposal, as will the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12043	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12044	Dear Mr. President Stefanovic, a respected lady minister, respected ministry representatives, it is good that the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized in its work immediately at the beginning of its term of office with agriculture and energy, as a priority in its work, as an action that will benefit not only the citizens of Serbia, but the state of Serbia as a whole. That is why we thank the Government and you and your ministry for being here today in front of us with the proposal for a law on the confirmation of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documentation for the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream". The "South Stream" gas transport system is strategically complex and specific. Dear People's MPs, this is the first visionary single project of this kind in the Republic of Serbia, this is also the most important investment of the past 20 years not only in energy but also in a safe sense in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, having gas as an energy resource represents a stable and secure energy future. Therefore, the future of the Republic of Serbia is indeed coming in an energy sense. Gentlemen, as you know, the pipeline itself should transport natural gas from Russia to the EU. It leaves from the southern part of Russia, from the Kraknodar region of Russia under the Black Sea, through Turkish territorial waters to Varna in Bulgaria, and from Bulgaria it would be branched into two arms, one leg from Bulgaria via Greece would lead underwater to Italy, and the other through Serbia, Hungary to Austria. The construction of the current has already begun, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and that 7th. 12. In 2012, on the Black Sea coast, construction will begin in Serbia, most likely as we heard today, in the first quarter of this year. The Serbian and Russian sides are 17. 11th already in 2009 established a joint company "South Stream" Serbia with 51% ownership of Gazprom and 49% of "Srbigas". Gentlemen, it is noteworthy tonight that Mr. President of Republika Srpska, Mr. Milorad Dodik, is 21. 09. In 2012, he signed a Protocol in Sochi with the "Gasprom" representatives on the construction of a single arm for Republika Srpska. The joint venture "South Stream" Slovenia was founded with Slovenia in February 2012 and 13. 11. In 2012, an agreement on the construction of a piece of gas pipeline through Serbia was also signed. Dear People's MPs, this pipeline is not only national, it has not only a regional character, it has a European and a planetary character. The start of the pipeline, as I said, was marked on the shore of the Black Sea 07. 12. In 2012, at the Russian compression station. Why am I repeating this again? Because he hosted no one but Russia's president, the great Vladimir Putin, and all the delegations of the countries through which the pipeline passes. The Serbian delegation was led by you, Ms. Mihajlovic. Let me say in a few sentences, as we heard the pipeline would be 3,600 kilometers long, and 900 kilometers going down the bottom of the Black Sea. In the Republic of Serbia, the pipeline enters Zaječar, passes by Belgrade and goes to Bačka Breg where it passes to Hungary. But Centa's envisions a racquet, a hub and the separation of the arms for Republika Srpska, which enters the Republic of Serbia, as planned, at Bljeljina, heading towards Banjaluca, to Novi Grad. Part of this project, as Mr. Bajatovic said, will also be the Banatski Dvor warehouse that is already in operational use. Several gas power plants will also be built, and two are planned in Republika Srpska. This pipeline will strengthen, i.e. strengthen, stronger economic ties, i.e. connect the Republic of Serbia with Republika Srpska, which is defined in special ties between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. The South Stream will be a capacity of 63 billion cubic metres, and will provide heating, hot water and electricity to millions of households in Europe. This means the total energy supply of one part of European countries. What does that mean for Russia? What does that mean for Serbia? What does that mean for Europe? In one sentence, for Russia "South Stream" is a priority, ladies and gentlemen, and for Europe the necessity, and for the Republic of Serbia energy and every other security. The Russian-Bulgarian share of the Black Sea will connect 900km. The construction of a Serbian stock will employ over 2,000 workers, and out of transit taxis, more than 200m euros per year in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This will give Serbia an important role in Europe's gas map. The whole project will cost 16 billion euros, and the funds have been provided, and some today have said so with the infidel, along with shareholders from the state of France and Germany. Dear People's MPs, this pipeline is a common multilateral, a European project that is interested in a large number of European countries that will use gas. This is how Serbia enters the infrastructure global processes, which is very important, because globalism does not wait, it flows, and with this Serbia really enters stronger global processes for the first time. This law will point to land expropriation and land preparation for its construction in Serbia. Allow me, Madam Minister, to say, for the sake of the public and Serbia, and some MPs who are in doubt tonight, as far as energy projects are concerned, you and your ministry have done what no one has done in the last 20 years. What is it that you did to the public of Serbia? You have defined the strategic goals of energy development and environmental protection and published existing and potential projects in one book, and just before, some have asked if they exist, and I am sorry that they didn't look at that book, and I brought it here, it's called "Projects" and presented it to investors from all over Europe, and among them is the project "South Stream" on page 26 and you could have been interested, see. In time, you gave the investors from all over Europe a hand to build Serbia's environmental and energy security together in partnership with us. Finally, I call on Mr People's MPs, not only the positions, but also the opposition and the MP party who said they would not vote, vote, because this is the common interest of all Serbian citizens, all MPs in this assembly and the state of Serbia as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12045	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12046	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, since the key amendments proposed by the DS have been adopted, our speakers have given up further debate and the DS will support this law. I have listened to all the presentations today, and I want to conclude in the end that this bill is not a ratification of the agreement on the construction of the South Stream, but a technical implementation, but of the agreement that has been initiated and concluded by the DS. We have seriously approached the examination of the law and made our proposals through amendments to this law. By adopting the DS amendment, we have made it possible for citizens to plead on the Expropriation Proposal, and also to make sure that they will charge a fair fee for the expropriation carried out. Once again, the DS will vote on this bill in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12047	The word is Dr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12048	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again that this project, which is a European, energy project in which they participate except for Russia's "Gasproma" and Italy's ENI and France's EDF and Germany's BASF, which was signed, that is, implemented in 2007 and 2008 during the government of Vojislav Kostunica and accepted in this assembly with more than 220 votes for, all political parties have practically voted for it, is probably the best project in the last 30 years that has been going on in Serbia. It was the first idea, as far as "South Stream" is concerned, and thus all the countries in the chain after Russia would be EU members, but thanks to all the members of the government then, and above all to the prime minister, however, the "South Stream" has passed through Serbia, one leg goes to Republika Srpska, which is of great importance to our children, the future, for the next 50 to 100 years. Of course, this project, there have been criticisms, but what I have to say, I wouldn't comment, I think this pipeline and this project would be desired by any country in the world. So, 411km will pass through Serbia, energy is today the biggest project in Europe, and if we don't look at China and its projects, as far as the pipeline is concerned, probably the largest energy project in the world today. Apart from several billion euros in investment, except for about two billion euros, which in 25 years Serbia is likely to enter through transportation fees, several thousand workers will be employed directly and indirectly. What I must stress, apart from our construction operation, is going to be a major project and I have to say that I have been getting calls from many companies from the EU and America and I was recently in America and several American companies were interested in this project. Here now in Serbia, when the construction of the South Stream begins, the world's largest company will arrive. These compression stations, which will be at the highest technological level, will be produced by Simmons, General Electricity, ABB, probably by some other larger and smaller producers. Our construction operation has a great chance, but there is a chance for the domestic industry in the future, because if we all know the role of gas pipeline services in Europe and the world, Serbian companies have great opportunities to become service operators for this pipeline passing through Serbia, 400 and some km, and to work on the most modern technological equipment. That's where thousands and thousands of jobs are hiding, not to mention the service sector. Of course, the gas will be cheaper, transport will be cheaper, at least three times less than it is through Hungary today. Of course, with us today, unfortunately gas is used much more as energy but in Western European countries, especially in Germany, gas is mostly used as raw materials for chemical and pharmaceutical industries. It is also likely that large world companies from these areas will find some interest, to produce or open and transfer to Serbia after passing the "South Stream". In addition, I will repeat Serbia once again becomes a major geostrategic hub and if we had this pipeline in 1999, NATO would never bomb Serbia. The pipeline has an extraordinary security function for the Republic of Serbia in the future, and it is certainly, since it is primarily a European project, European-Russian, that Serbia will benefit the most from this in a safe way. Finally, let me add that with such partners as partners from Russia and European states in the South Stream, Serbia can make great and technological and technical progress as well as a huge economic gain. Once again to confirm that the DSS will strongly support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12049	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12050	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, given that the DSS and DS have told us that they have started these strategic projects, infrastructure projects, very important for our country, I thank you at that beginning and we can only conclude that in five years you have managed to do as much as you have succeeded. Now, the time to realise these strategic projects is on the SNS, our minister and our government. Now, in all that, of course, we're looking for support like through these laws that follow. So this is one of the laws that will support the creation of an investment environment in which this paperwork, what it calls implementation and implementation of the project, will be an expedient environment for investors. Of course, this should not only apply to this South Stream project, because we hope that there will be more such projects in the energy field and that this is only one of the first steps where we will really show full realization. For the sake of truth and the citizens of Serbia, I would like to say that I have a record on the Committee in which I claim that the right information about the number of hectares to be expunged has been given. After all, you can take a stenogram from the session, you will have a record in which you will see that as a committee we have received the right information from the Ministry's representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12051	Thank you. The word has Mr Popovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12052	Of course, the DSS will strongly support this project and any project that the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will implement in the immediate or future, in the greatest possible interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-12-0.u12053	Thank you. I'm concluding a principle search on the bill, and we're working on it tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you.
