ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15624	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 87's Rules of Procedure. Sessions of the National Assembly are normally held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours, with a break from one hour. If you look at the hours, it's 10:16 today. Ask these cameramen, professional services, any employee how it goes when they're 15 minutes late for work. We have been warning you for days that you are each day late with the beginning of the session of the Assembly. We've been waiting 10 minutes for academics, even though we know you're buying these academic calls, for example at Tomislav Nikolic's. But we really don't understand that every day the session of the assembly is 15, 20 minutes late. I'd like to ask you to start working on Tuesday from 10:00 p.m. Here come the opposition, who surrender laws, orni, ready to work. Unfortunately, you won't be able to collect the quorum. I don't want us to start the session again on Tuesday with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15625	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Zoran Babic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15626	Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure has been broken. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like for the sake of the truth, for the public to have us gathered here, so let's see why the previous speaker didn't object when it wasn't working on Tuesday. Business is that the National Assembly is sitting on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is trying to respect the Rules of Procedure, we are trying to attend the maximum session attendance. Here you can see this half of the hall, I can freely say two-thirds of the hall that represents the majority of this parliament, which participates in the work, and let's add the parliamentary group and the presence of the parliamentary group of the previous speaker, so if these benches were full, so if those cards were in the parliamentary units, I could understand this criticism. I don't really understand it like this, and I think she's hypocritical at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15627	Thank you. Mr. Toskovic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15628	You've injured Article 107, since our chief of Parliament said so, but I'm going to say it again. There's no point in criticizing someone without them making some quorum themselves. Why can a gentleman thus criticise most of the MPs present, only at that time they could not put a card or the electronic control did not respond properly? It's always been a delay. When they were in power, we were three days late for the congregation to start working because they had no quorum at all. Therefore, please, the chairman, remind the MP not to say anything that is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15629	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15630	He's now a injured member of 108. The president of the National Assembly is taking care of the work at the National Assembly. I didn't criticise you here to give me lectures. If you look at the library records from the assembly session while we were in power, it never happened that the congregation was three days late. It never happened that the assembly was ten minutes late. You're 15, 20, 30 minutes late every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15631	Mr. Milivoevich, you've begun to replicate. Please stick to article 108. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15632	Thank you. Don't lecture us when we come. We're on time. You can see that from the electronic records, and I'd like to ask the Assembly to start working at 10.00 hours. In the municipalities where you exercise authority employees are punished with 30% salary when they don't come to work at 9:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15633	Thank you. National MP Zoran Babic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15634	I'll just have one sentence. Article 107. This coming in time looks like some stealth technology and stealth MPs, because other than the seven DS MPs present, everyone else seems to be from some domain of stealth technology. Look at the SNS parliamentary group, look at our partners from the government. Indeed, stealth technology does not apply in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The vote from Bodrum is not valid in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The violations of the Rules of Procedure no longer apply in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm saying all this for the public, for the truth. Please do not honor the National Assembly, which has shown both efficiency and political courage and whether in some things we are late for ten minutes a day, but in political decisions we are going much faster and much faster than anything the DS has done in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15635	I'm just going to remind you that we've already lost 10 minutes of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's get back to the subject. Mr. Milivojevic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15636	Now a member of 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where it says - if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly expressed offensively about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and last name, etc., even if you could interrupt him, because he also used the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica. Do you know that you count to seven or nine, and if that's what Tomislav Nikolic taught by buying a diploma, I don't know, and I don't get into it, but I remind you again, we won't let you insult us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15637	Mr. Milivoevich, I must interrupt you, since you abuse the use of the Rules of Procedure. So, the 104 that you advertised determines the right to a replica, so that what you're talking about doesn't apply to Article 104. Please, so we don't waste any time, so we can continue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15638	Thank you. I hope you show up so efficiently on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15639	Thank you. We continue a joint principled search on the bill on patients' rights and the proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. Does one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives, come forward for a word? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15640	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the area of patient rights has so far been regulated, so to speak, by sectoral laws in the field of health care. The bill, which is before us for the first time, regulates patients' rights in a comprehensive manner, in accordance with the modern solutions adopted internationally and in numerous international contracts and conventions of world and European organisations in the area of the rights of healthcare patients, which our country has ratified. Also, the proposed provisions on the procedure and way of protecting the rights of patients, the so far-called non-functional system of protection of rights, have been carried out so far. the rights defenders of patients, who themselves were employees of health care institutions, are moving and descending to the level of local self-government. The law extends the current circle of patient rights, which includes the Law on Health Protection, the introduction of patients' rights to preventive measures, the quality of health care, the right to patient safety and the right to relief of suffering and pain. Also, what represents a significant newspaper is the introduction of a patient's right to leave a health care facility, the rights of a child staying at a stationary health facility, and the right of a patient to another expert opinion. At the same time, the round of duty of patients who are scheduled for the solutions so far has been expanded, by adding to the existing obligations of patients to bear responsibility for their own health the rights of other patients and the responsibilities of patients for treating healthcare professionals. What we consider a key newspaper is a change in the patient's rights system. Namely, without an adequate protection mechanism, all rights can become a dead letter on paper, and with this it is necessary to create conditions that the patient can effectively protect his rights whether he does so alone in a court or in another procedure, whether he engages in the protection of these rights by the relevant institutions. The current system of patient rights protection meant that the duty of the rightholder of patients was to perform a graduate lawyer appointed by the healthcare institution's head, which was a paradox in itself. It was simply illogical to expect that an employee of the same medical institution whose quality of the service is being complained about would take appropriate measures that would potentially result in the sanctioning of one of the health workers. This is illogical because such a thing would result in a violation of collegiate relations, and even in practice it was most often that patients, and that they are not aware of it at all, are aware that such an act will not produce the desired consequences even in cases where there is a violation of the law of guaranteed rights. The proposed system of patient rights protection in the form of patient advisors and health advice designated by the local self-government unit removes that function from the health care institution framework, and could be a good step in the right of better quality protection of their rights. This is because the largest number of health services is provided at the level of primary health care, and the founder of the primary health care facility is local self-government as the organisation of public authorities closest to citizens. However, what would be my objection to the proposed solution is the fact that none of the intended institutions involved in the protection of patients' rights are given executive powers to launch appropriate procedures before competent authorities and organisations. When the procedure determines that patients' rights have been violated, the law provides for high criminal penalties for healthcare institutions and healthcare professionals who violate patients' rights but do not determine who will initiate the procedure. As is known, the court is not in session under official duty, but this procedure in this case must be initiated by filing requests. In this respect, the law stipulates that the supervision of the application of the provisions of the law is carried out by the Ministry of Health Affairs, but does not provide for an inspection on-site, which, in our view, would certainly be the work of health inspectors, so we intervened in this direction with amendments in Article. 41st and 48th, where we appreciate that these solutions could be repaired. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day because it better regulates the matter of protecting patients' rights than the previous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15641	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15642	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have two very important laws, a law on the protection of the rights of the patient and a law on the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders. One of them concerns every resident of Serbia, each of us because we were all either in a situation to be patients or one of us dear ones is in that position. The second law concerns those in our society who were born at birth, either because they were more sensitive or weaker in the structure of a person who succumbed to all the temptations of life and found themselves in a position to be treated in institutions as patients with mental disorders. These are often people who are unable to care for their rights, and that is why it is vital that society and all of us together take care of the rights that must be guaranteed them. Why are these laws important? The nation's health is one of the conditions of its prosperity and development alongside education. It's not just a question of each of us individually, it's a question and all of us together and the development of our entire society. The health system depends on many things and I will not comment on the quality of the entire health system in Serbia now, because I think it is a topic for other laws. It is very important to deal with the rights of patients and the relationship of doctors and patients today, because, in addition to defining the quality of the health system with some measurable results, such as the expected age of life or the mortality of infants or mortality in coronary units, the disease of citizens from non-infectious chronic diseases, it is certainly defined by patient satisfaction, i.e. the doctor-patient relationship. We must admit that in our system this relationship is often not satisfactory. If we look at surveys of those satisfaction studies of patients who have been in some stationary institutions, they are satisfied with the quality of service, but the whole public is not satisfied with the functioning of the health system. I believe that one of the important reasons is that the relationship between doctors and patients so far has not been a partner relationship, but has often been the impression that this is the relationship between the two sides. Both sides have health goals and therefore it is very important that this law connects them into a partner relationship. Doctors and patients estimate that one of the biggest problems in health care is administrative procedures, waiting for the examinations, the time the doctor has available during the examination to talk to the patient and the motivation of the doctor. Doctors themselves admit that with age, their motivation declines due to inadequate working conditions, due to insufficient earnings, due to the short time they have available to deal with patients. It's one of the conditions for a patient and a doctor to have a better relationship. Surely there are other reasons why this relationship is not ideal. We need to look for roots in a way that is educated by doctors who, by definition, deal with disease, partial segments, body, and do a little bit of man as a whole. This is often the reason why patients have the impression that the doctor does not respect their personality, capacities, and unfortunately often is the reason to get worse treatment results, because we have to admit that I am a patient is a very important healing factor and that only if he engages all of his strengths and potentials then healing can occur. This is a law that takes a step forward. So far, we have in many laws that regulate the area of health care had regulated patient rights issues in one modern way, but now with this law we are getting a complete picture of what is important for the right of the patient in the health system to be achieved and it certainly is, in the light of international documents and conventions, the right to prevention, the right to access, information, consent, freedom to choose procedures and doctors, privacy and confidentiality, respect for patient time, quality standards, patient safety in the health system, the right to innovative methods, the right to ease suffering and pain, personalisation of treatments, the right to appeal, the right to compensation if unwanted effects occur. I'd only single out some of them, primarily information. We have often had opportunities for all of us as patients to find ourselves in the health system and not get enough information about the doctor or the health care institution, but unfortunately neither about our illness itself or the methods that will be applied to us, how painful or unpleasant they will be, what effects they will give, what if we do not agree to this method, what can happen. Therefore, the full information of patients is from newspapers that this law adopts and to which both doctors and health institutions are bound. It's certainly consent and freedom of choice. I would argue with some opinions that are different and that think that man has no right not to agree to methods, medical methods, that will save his life. I'd say there is. I believe that an adult, responsible person has the right to decide how to end his life. It is an integral human right. It is the right to retain our dignity, our personal integrity, because that is what makes us human. Also, in the health system, we have the right to relieve suffering and pain, not only those patients who are in terminal stages of the most severe diseases, but all of us when certain procedures are applied to us. Very often doctors who focus on healing do not care just how painful a procedure will be, how shaken it will be by the person concerned, and how suffering it will cause. I think it is very important that this law regulates the rights of patients and that they have the right to the least painful procedure, under the best conditions and with medications that will ease suffering and pain. This law introduces patients' right to second opinion. We know that health care providers are often prone to some kind of professional vanity. All of us in our professions are probably inclined to do so, but the basic right of patients is to seek a second opinion and to treat their disease or disease in a way that he considers to be the best. I'd like to talk about this part, about the rights of children in this law. He has also caused numerous polemics. I think we should turn the question around. Does a 15-year-old have the right to just make a decision on a procedure and does he have the right to confidential counseling, does he have the right to treatment? Yes, of course there is. I know what it means to be a parent, I'm a parent, and I have a 22-year-old daughter. It often seems to me that she does not know how to care for her health. You will allow it, children in Serbia are sometimes people at 35 and people at 40. As a nation, we are prone to overprotecting adult children. Yes, a 15-year-old can make a decision on his treatment, of course, if that treatment was proposed by an expert. If a child is to refuse a procedure that could endanger his health or life, according to this law, the doctor is obliged to inform his parent or guardian. So, there's no worry that there's going to be a health disorder or a child's life unless we're notified as parents. Let's ask ourselves a little differently. Why would a child of 15, 16, 17 want to hide his condition or his illness from us? I think that as a society, we should do a little bit more of that and develop a greater relationship of trust between parents and children. I think that's the real question in this case. Of course, the right to confidential counselling is provided explicitly by this law and by younger children. I can say that this is a completely common method in psychological counseling and that child therapy is taking place without the presence of parents. It's something that's a standard of profession long ago and it's very good that this law defines that there would be no dilemma in such cases. I think it's very important that the rights of children staying in station facilities are regulated. It was really very charming in our hospitals. At one point, it was only possible for the mother to stay with the child if she was breast-feeding, which means that a child of a year, a year and a half or two years was left in the hospital alone. The effects of this can have on his psychological growth and development, I think it is known not only to the professional but also to the general public. Such separation at such ages is simply inadmissible from a professional point of view. It is very important to provide children with the presence of parents, to the greatest extent possible, when they are in a stressful situation, when they are completely isolated from the familiar environment, and therefore their psychological capacities are reduced. Children are allowed to have rights to play, recreation, learning, education if they stay in stationary institutions longer. It is something that children need for their development, but also for a good feeling in the conditions in which they are. I think another provision is important, which is the one that defines that if a parent or guardian refuses the procedure that a child is required or decides to take him out of a stationary institution without the treatment being completed, then the doctor is obliged to inform the custody authority i.e. Social work center. No matter what we all believe parents are always working in the best interests of the child, sometimes that's not happening. I think it's very good that now there's a counselor who's going to be dealing with patients' rights. It's a good thing he's out of the health care system. Some colleagues commented that it was better for him to be in the health care system. No, it certainly isn't, because if the director, the supposed health care institution, is supposed to be dealing with patients' rights, then it is certain that there may be some conflict of interest and that the patient's rights advocate will not always work in the best interests of the patient. I think it's a good thing it's a person who's in a local community. I think by law you've made very good sense of the procedures and ways in which the rights will be exercised through counselors. What is my remark, which is that I believe the council should not have had the possibility, or the need to give it in the jurisdiction to resolve individual objections, objections. If this is already done by a consultant, who has clearly defined how data will be obtained, how will the case be examined, because medical institutions are obliged to give him documentation, to put it on notice within five days, and he writes a report within eight days, delivers it, reports to the council and ministry three months, then I don't see why the local council has the same authority. I think there's going to be a mix-up with patients, whether they're going to file objections to the counselor or the council. How's the advice, you didn't define it by law, what are his methods, to investigate this case? Who from the council? Is the whole council supposed to go to a health care facility? I don't think that's the best regulation and that those first two positions in defining the council's jurisdiction are not necessary, because it's the job of a counselor. He will report to the council for three months and the council will have a complete picture of it and possibly invite the counselor to take responsibility for a job that has not worked well enough. Also, I have objections to Article 35 of the Law. It is a member who refuses to provide medical assistance to the patient who has violated one of his duties. To be clear, I'm a health associate and I've worked in the health system for a long time and I haven't had such situations, but I know they exist and I know there are patients who are inadequately responding when they come for an examination. Why is that happening? I can understand that. The patient is in a state of stress, people react differently to situations like this. Often fear or anxiety turns into anger or aggression, and then there are these unkind situations. But that's no excuse. No doctor or healthcare provider should be exposed to inadequate patient behaviour. You have made it clear in the law that it is forbidden to interfere with the one who provides health care in doing his job. What bothers me a little is a formula that says that a patient is obliged to treat a doctor, a healthcare professional or an associate, with respect and respect. I'm a little afraid that these are terms that can be unclear in the law and that there may be a difference in interpretation of some healthcare providers who can assess that the patient has not respected or respected them enough. I prefer that this is clearly defined, such as the ban on obstructing the provision of medical services, to prohibit insulting or disdaining a healthcare professional. Simply, the wording "respect and respect", it's a subjective category, and it seems to me that there may be a different interpretation. However, if such a situation arises, the doctor, or helper, has the right to refuse to provide assistance. Please let us be more specific about this article. It says here he can do it unless it's a medical emergency. What, say, if we take a kid with a fever of 39 to a doctor in the afternoon and he estimates he's not respectable enough and he doesn't want to provide medical care? It's not an emergency medical treatment, but it's an aid that can further endanger the child's health. Or in adults, for example, there's high pressure, so if we're not given help, there may be an escalation of the disease that night. I think it should be put there – and if taking the measure can lead to side effects by disease, then it is also not possible to refuse to provide medical help. We'll talk more about it when there's a debate in particular. I think the law regarding the right person with mental disorders is also good. Yesterday you were talking about the need for the entire social community to have a different relationship with those who have mental disorders and that we need to develop services in a much larger extent in the community, in order to be able to accept all those people who can function, not just in stationary conditions. You said we had to be careful because it's a long process. I agree with you, but since the appearance of antipsychiatry, it's been tens of years, and we haven't done anything to make it any different. I think we should work harder on that and that regulation of rights in health care institutions for patients with mental disorders is something we still have to deal with. I also have to say one professional dilemma. This law prohibits psychosurgery, operations that help in some difficult situations, but you have not decided to ban electroconvulsive therapy. You're a psychiatrist, but I've talked to a lot of psychiatrists. For example, in a special hospital in Toponica, this method has not been applied for 30 years, but at a clinic that is in the same yard it applies. What's the expert attitude? Is it necessary, with such an innovative, destructive and relatively dangerous method, to be handled today in the 21st century, when pharmacology has progressed to this extent, that the same conditions can be treated in different ways? Do we have a unique view of it and whether it is possible to avoid applying such a method that I said that, when I studied, I believed that it only happens in "A flight above the coward's nest" and no longer in Serbia, and today we see that it happens here too. It's a good thing you've regulated it, but I think maybe we could go one step further. In the hope that this law will indeed contribute to patients and healthcare providers being partners in the process of healing and achieving greater health, not only of individual health, but of the health of our society, I hope that we will all have the strength together to support this law in the number in which we have done so with some other laws. I expect all MPs' groups to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15643	Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15644	Madam Chairman, I wouldn't advertise Article 128 right now. The Rules of Procedure, that we had not been taught such a short time ago about responsible behaviour in the Serbian Parliament, so I see that five cards in the electronic system are very responsible now, although I do not see five SNS MPs in the O.R., and just before we are honored that we are not in the O.R. Your legitimate right to go to the rally at 12.44, but please bring the cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15645	Thank you. I'm asking professional services to get their cards out of a system where MPs don't sit. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Velickovic and Mrs Plassic for more than constructive participation in the debate, and to explain only some important elements that will be spoken of more when we discuss individual members, or amendments. Mr. Veličkovic pointed out that it would be better if counsel and advice had the opportunity to sanction possibly certain behaviours or to initiate appropriate actions. The law regulates that only organs can do so, and the adviser and health counsel are mediators. The process of trying not to initiate any formal procedure, but to end up in the patient's interest is, in the best way by him, a procedure that is in his interest. We just think that the conduct of disputes, that what inspection services should do, should not be done by these mediators, i.e. advisers and advice, and that is one of the trends of the legislator. As for all the contents that we could hear from a very competent letter, Mrs Plassic, the simple interpretation of the law is such that it may have been expected that yesterday I speak in that way in the opening part, but there was no doubt that there were so many competent persons in this room to do so and I expected that we would be able not to hear twice similar content. I would need to intervene perhaps only in the comment of Mrs Plassic on electroconvulsive therapy. Ladies and gentlemen, convulsive therapy, i.e. electroconvulsive therapy, according to our knowledge and knowledge of the largest number of our citizens, since they met with this therapy at "A flight above the coward's nest", is a sovereign method that solves the problem of some patients' lives. Depression is one of the most difficult diseases, when a person thinks about not living, when a person has no will, interest, when he loses his mood and when you apply all the pharmacological and non-pharmacological methods that can help her, and depressed patients will be incomparably more and there will be another reason for incapacitation, according to the World Health Organization, in the whole world after cardiovascular disease. Such individuals, not to raise their hands on themselves, to get out of the stairway, to completely interrupt communication with the environment, to avoid being completely interested in taking food, and to maintain vital functions at all, can only be helped by electroconvulsive therapy. There are patients who, according to modern guides, are beginning to be treated for very modern doctrine with electroconvulsive therapy, because they have already been found to be therapeutic and that this is the only method that can help them. Today, this method is done in incomparably humane conditions, with the presence of an anesthesiologist and his active participation, in anesthesia, and it is not a bit like what most of our citizens from "Fly above the coward's nest" know. It is one sovereign method that is never applied as a first choice method, when there are other ways, neither second, nor third. She's the fourth so-called. the level of therapeutic activity for the largest number of those who could not respond to the previous three, but when the risk of suicide is high, when the patient is stuporous, without communication, it can give and deliver extraordinary results and work in incomparably humane conditions. Therefore, we could not by any law prohibit something that the rule of profession says is medically approved procedure and that it has favourable effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15647	Thank you. Snezana Stojanović Plassic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15648	I thank you, Your Honor, for your explanation. You're an expert in the area and you've made your expert point. I have only found that there are institutions dealing with the treatment of the same diseases, therefore, depression, deep depression and long-term depression, and that some of them, their expert advice, which also makes up your fellow psychiatrists and psychologists and many others who work in that institution, consider together with their colleagues, as I have heard from the hospital in Kovin and the hospital in Vrsac, that such a method is not necessary to apply and not apply it for 30 years. My question was whether there was an expert guide and a unique professional view of the psychiatric profession that it was a method that was necessary? If she is, then why isn't everyone applying her, if she, as you say, is the method of choice? Without the intention of leading a professional controversy with you, because I'm not a psychiatrist, I'm merely presenting as an MP a dilemma, although it's not crucial to the subject we're dealing with today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15649	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15650	I think it's important for the public after all. Yes, it's actually a highly professional issue. Our recommendations are binding in fact for all experts in the world and there is precisely electroconvulsive therapy as a very regular method. What is a fact, it is that not all institutions are trained because there is no anesthesiologist to carry out this procedure in a modern and completely secure manner and therefore it is conducted in military-medical accelerations, in clinics where there is indeed a possibility of good co-operation with the services of intensive care, i.e. anaesthesia. Therefore, it is fully cared for, not only for safety, but for the dramatic image itself caused by electroconvulsive therapy is a minimalized so-called. The mytified electroshocks that can be obtained when applied this way, but what you see actually has its essence which is professional and we can talk about. It's perfectly fine to act drastically on all those who don't actually know that a large number of neurons reacting at one point and re-branding the central nervous system in a state of physiological function. That's the point of using electroconvulsive therapy, but further polemics would be professional. So in any case, world guides recommend this method where there are therapeutic, and the concept of therapeutic depression is a depression that does not respond to medicine and is not identical to chronic depression.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15651	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15652	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. The colleague has just taken advantage of Article 13(2) of the right to expert opinion, second expert opinion, so that, since the law has not yet entered into force, in six months, it will not be delivered by personal request. The joke aside, after yesterday's, or last night's discussions, which were very inspiring, some of them were confusing and probably for the people who listened to last night's speakers, I was really thinking about how to go with the story today, what's important to point out about these two laws. Yesterday, a few quality questions were asked to be answered by the minister, while the second part of the question was totally not in line with the proposals of these laws, but with something I really failed to understand. Let me remind you, private practice, private pharmacies has been mentioned. The question of scanners in western Serbia has been asked, with a formulation -- what if the scanner in western Serbia, in Loznica, is not working, should these doctors receive wages because of the work of the Sapco scanner? Otherwise, we're talking about the Law on Patients' Rights. Someone said yesterday that all doctors and sisters were corrupt, which is from the position of esnaf, the profession, and I, as an MP, was a very incorrect attitude. Over 95% of the people who work in hospitals, who wear white coats, wear them with honor and honesty, and no one has the right, not even the MPs, to call a whole fel, a whole esnaf corrupt. It's all in the stenograms. Yesterday someone said he was in Vojvodina, and I checked it out, said that since he's very old, and the magnet is scheduled in a few months, there's no need to do it because he'll probably die by then. That's not true. Once again, I will repeat in this room that only we in Serbia continue to live in communism and socialism, and we are all thinking in some Western or European way. The magnetic resonance waits in Sweden for a year. Magnetic resonance is not a method of choice, it's not the first examination to begin the patient's treatment. It turns out that people who talk about medicine, it's like when they were inlincincun, possibly pandorf, on vacation, so they called Uncle Doctor, dentist or sister to take out their teeth, because if one day we're going to align our laws with American laws, we're going to have a problem, because they don't have an ambulance, they have a paramedic. These are two technicians carrying patients. Every movie you watch you see two technicians educated to get the patient to the hospital. That's what they do, not doctors. Once again, someone will set a third example. There's only one thing I had left in that light yesterday. Since the World Health Organization says that health is not only the absence of disease, but the state of total mental, physical and social well-being, I expected one of our colleagues to remember, for example, that he blames the minister or the health ministry and, since the basic provisions of this law say that the patient is sick or healthy, to say – yeah, health is not the absence of illness, lacks money, lacks money, it is the wrong ministry. That was the highlight of yesterday's discussion, part of the discussion. What exactly is the meaning of these laws, first of all, of the Patients' Rights Act? It's regulation of patient rights. What is very important is the introduction of a patient's obligation, the harmonisation of these laws with European and world standards, and the law and regulations, and I think it's important to create this partner relationship between patients and health care personnel. Many more lawmakers recall that this law was promised in 2000 to be adopted and adopted today, or adopted these days in the voting day at the proposal of this ministry, Minister Slavica Djukic and her team, and someone waited 13 years for the law to be passed. How did the procedure run to get to the law? What characterizes the work of the ministry and these people is primarily the conduct of a big, wide public debate. It is primarily organised in clinical centres, in four clinical centres in Serbia. I was the host of one who was in Nis. More than 200 people from all institutions in southern Serbia, from all institutions that are gravitating towards our clinical center, all the institutions that send patients to us, all got the law before that and made numerous remarks and suggestions. There were directors of medical schools, people from local self-government in charge of social policy issues, the exercise of citizens' rights and everything else. After that, the debate was organised in health institutions, in the fund, in chambers, in the Serbian Medical Society, not to mention further, you have it all in the text, but the people need to know. The debate was also held at UNICEF, the OSCE, the Centre for the Rights of the Child and other institutions. What is most important, special interest and activity have been shown by associations of patients of certain diseases. Why does all this matter? Well, first of all, because they are in all these public debates, there have been numerous objections, numerous suggestions and a fair opportunity to see both the draft and the work version and this final one that is before you, I say final while the amendment can be changed. It's a significant change, but it's all in a qualitative sense. When we talk about this law, I'm a couple of things that, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you're kind of, uh, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you Patients' rights have already been regulated by a number of legal acts, meaning a series of regulations of the Protection Act, the Health Insurance Act, etc. But it was seen that these rights overlap somewhere, problems are noticed, and that was the reason for the adoption and the proposal for a law like this. The only thing that mattered was to get all this together, as I just said with the documents from Europe and the world. The term to be used constantly means, for the first time in Serbia, the right of the patient to preventive measures, the right to the quality of medical service, the right to security, the right to ease suffering and pain is explicitly established. I'll explain all these things a little bit later. The basic rights are already in line and established. For the first time, I repeat, for the first time, the right of a patient to leave a health care facility to his responsibility, which is regulated now, will be regulated by law. The rights of the child have been established, raised to a level that a sick child, almost all of us are parents here, and we know what kind of suffering is both mental and parent and other, and also the child itself, or children. So, children's rights are raised to such a level that parents can be next to them normally in conditions where they can be. So the law obliges the employer to ensure the conditions for the children to be adequately taken care of. I made a joke earlier, for the first time, it's introduced to a second expert opinion, and if someone's going to say where the two lawyers are, there are three interpretations of two doctors, three diagnosiss. So be it, but it stands the right of a patient to seek a second expert opinion, the law says so. At the end of that part, three things that mattered to me. It is introduced as the mandatory right of the patient to take care of his own health, the duty of all of us who are in some health care system to educate people and to point out the prevention and importance of prevention, determine the duties and obligations of the patient to health care personnel. All those who criticized here, or here I call on all 249 MPs to come, to be my guests in Nis and to be all on duty one night at any clinic receiving emergency patients. Then you will see on the spot what it looks like when a parent brings a child who is injured, who bleeds, who has a high or high temperature. When parents come for children, who are injured in a car accident. So you should see that. So medicine isn't paper or a path that we pave, mark and it's a path, it's a living organism. They are introduced in a new way and patients' rights in terms of advisers and health advice. There was a comment on whether this someone, as I, as director, would choose to be that person who represents patients – would defend the house or receive a salary here or defend the patient? I mean, when all the patients are now in local self-government, unsatisfactory things go there, like we do for local self-government, the IRS, and everything else gets more and more relieved, it'll be easier for us. There's gonna be more traffic there. Not in the sense of complaints against patients or complaints against a doctor. I'll try for a few examples to say something about the very law on patients' rights. Yesterday, one of the co-workers or colleagues, related to chapter 2, meant the article 6 was pro-commentated, normally well-intentioned – could anyone in their place of residence get an adequate service? Of course he can't. Nowhere in the world exists in every village in El Dah or in a small village near London a cardiosurgery center so they operate there. No, there are large centres, smaller centres, there must be primary, secondary, territorial protection. There are some levels that matter, and that's why the law says that. So, if there is a local hospital, local health care facility, any local health care facility to transport a patient to a place where he will be provided a service. Article 7, what's important. Every time you've been in the hospital, you've listened, or you've called on the phone, so somebody picks up - good afternoon - good afternoon. It's regulated by law to be, not to say marked, to have a presentation – I'm the doctor and the one, I'm the nurse and the one, I'm the nurse and the one. So the patient gets the right to know who he's communicating with. It's also important for the counselors, it's also important for the diagnosis, it's important for later therapy, because I'm asking – where were you, who called you when someone was uraging. He answers: "Well, one is a little thin, bald, bald, has glasses, blond hair, has been satated." By the time I find him in three and a half thousand workers, I lose half a day. Name and last name, that's what they call a doctor and a nurse, a nurse, and it's regulated by law. Prevention measures in Article 8. means, apart from the ads that we watch on TV for kaladontes, for butterflies, for other things that refresh breath and mouth will be likely to be projects of the Ministry of Health, European projects tell stories about the preventive and importance of prevention for many things. Prevention of breast cancer, sores of the womb, colon. It costs a lot less than just healing. Our movement, since we have two digital mammographers in Serbia, our movement in Nis has made 30,000 patients last year. We found 300 and some cancers in the initial phase, saved 300 women. The other one did three grand. Be careful, we talk, we talk, we brag. Then we boast, and then they say we'll start the truck, and we'll go after Serbia a little bit, not just around Belgrade. Article 10(3) - the right to patient safety, he says - the patient cannot suffer damage caused by inadequate functioning of the healthcare service. That article was not understood when they read. So, it's said to be inadequately functioning medical services, unaccompanied measures taken by a doctor or a therapist, rather than a service. If I don't have a van in Nis that needs a patient to drive somewhere, it's a service, and the measure will be provided, i.e. intervention, or therapy, a dose of medicine will be applied and it's regulated by another law. Right to the notice, that's a great point of view in Article 11. You have items that the patient must know, because very often and this is good, the employer now has to inform his doctors, sisters and others that they have to tell the patient – you suffer from this and that disease, the forecasts are these, such a trail of events are expected, we offer such a variant, such a place of treatment and everything else. Last night she was one of her colleagues, I think she gave it very constructively, it's the same member, she mentioned that a health care professional can keep the diagnosis quiet, but the following one says that the diagnosis has to give to a family member. He says - that's why I invite you to the guests, that one of you is a lawyer who is an economist, an artist, a fruit maker, a doctor, a baker, to look, when he sits down; and we say simply - excuse me, sir, ma'am, you have a tumor, the forecast for you is three months. To see the patient's reaction. These are painful conditions. There the doctor needs to be conscious enough, correct enough, to keep quiet, to inform the family, because according to some statistics, analyses, in women who had breast cancer, who accepted the disease and who were struggling with the disease, the prognosis was even over 50% already in the cure. So, the desire to live, the manner of the announcement must be adequate. Just before, here I repeat for the third time, it is the right to free choice, free choice of doctors, or freedom of choice of second opinion. Yesterday, someone also said that this law introduces students in Article 14. They've been here a long time, hundreds of years since university centers existed. But here it says that a patient or a patient can say no, I don't want anyone to be there for me. So this is where the patient has to plead and that's good. We used to go as students to see all patients of all kinds, not now. If the patient says I won't, there won't be anyone next to him and it's a good thing he's in law. It's a very important thing, Article 25. - the right of a patient who participates in medical research. Many medical homes, medical homes from the network plan are conducting some research. This introduces this into a regular flow. That's what the law says. The patient's consent, the signature, means everything that's necessary so tomorrow doesn't burn to make anyone feel or even think or suspect, what's important, even if they suspect that they're fatigued in some experiment, is very important. About the rights of the child, the minister has already repeatedly replicated, or corresponded to how much the rights of the child by this law, Article 26, raises the responsibility of patients to other healthcare professionals or healthcare professionals. A thousand times, those who listened in Belgrade and watched the "Belgrade Chronicle", so the report, not Hope Macure, is from the Emergency Service, but from the Emergency Centre, Mr. Loncar, some director, says that the nonstop is the intervention police there.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15653	Mr. Radovanovic, please finish your thought, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15654	Here's the end of the thought, since I've come to an emergency, I'm going slowly. From the ER, we're slowly entering therapy. Why did I say this? Because that's what happens in those larger centers. Two groups are killed in the city, they start shooting guns, the first tour of the wounded in our town, there's a second round to save the brothers who arrived, there's a third round, there's an intervention team, there's an intervention brigade. So, these people who work in these emergency centers, you can't understand it, lives are threatened, and this law regulates the rights that patients have, that is, the obligations they have towards health care personnel. I've got a lot more, but the Honorable Chairman has warned me, and I'll leave it for another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15655	I've tolerated a minute of time. The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15656	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, fellow MPs, the DS Parliament Club believes it is very important that patients' rights laws and protection of persons with mental disorders were found in parliament. In particular, we believe it is important for parliament to adopt a law on patients' rights, because the right to use quality health care is one of the basic human rights guaranteed by both our Constitution and a series of laws governing this area, and I will only state the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. In these and other existing health laws, certain rights of users of health services are guaranteed, but what was missing is precisely one clear and more comprehensive definition of patients' rights and implementation of standards reached in this area in the developed world, which are the content of a number of international conventions and other international documents. It is particularly important that the provisions on the right of patients to preventive measures, the right to the quality of health care, the right to patient safety and the right to ease suffering and pain, because these rights were not part of existing legislation. Some of the international documents we have ratified, let us not yet, but I would like to implement those standards that they contain, I think it is the right time, the right time for us to implement our legislation. I also think about the European Charter of Patients' Rights, the Declaration on the Rights of Patients of the World Medical Association, and it is particularly important when it comes to children of patients, which is legally incorporated and the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Otova Declaration of the World Medical Association on the Rights of the Child for Health Care. Well, let me just mention some of the most important international documents. As you know, the DS Parliament Club, or our colleague Dusan Milisavljevic, the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Health and Family, sent a bill like this to Parliament a few months ago and we consider it to be good and important, that the government, or the competent ministry, also assessed that we need this law and today we are discussing it in parliament. Also, the parliamentary club believes it is important that the professional public is consulted in the preparation of the law. The relevant NGOs, patient associations, independent institutions, i.e. the Protector of the Rights of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information, as well as some international organisations, and this is especially evident in some legal solutions, I would stress that it is particularly visible when it comes to the rights of children patients. The DS Parliament Club expects that the Committee on Health will adopt some other amendments, which have just sent independent regulatory bodies, I am referring in particular to the amendment of the Commissioner for Public Information, which concerns the confidentiality of medical documentation. I especially want to highlight the importance of some of the rights established by this law, because it best regulates the relationship of users and healthcare providers, humanises this relationship, and provides the patient with dignity. On the other hand, I believe that this definition of patient rights helps healthcare providers, or healthcare professionals, that they have a clearer knowledge of their role in this rather complex and complex relationship that otherwise exists between a patient and a health worker. The basic right is the right to access and quality health care in accordance with the patient’s health condition. Certainly, the exercise of this right depends on the material possibilities of the health system, it is clear and obvious. I therefore believe that it was better to enter into the law a formula that makes this right, the right to access and quality health care relevant to the content and scope of health care laid down by the health insurance law. Such an amendment was submitted by the MP of our parliamentary group, Vladimir Gordic, and there will be more words about him in the discussion of details. In fact, we believe that the term within the limits of the physical capabilities of the health care system, as otherwise stated in Article 6. The bill, a lot of relativating this right and in fact it can be an alibi for different system failures, disorganization. For example, for untimely public procurement, when it comes to e.g. on the supply of pharmacy, here we have today in the media that there are problems with insulin, that pharmacies do not have insulin. So, we are often witnesses to this, and therefore we think that the amendment proposed by fellow Gordic should be carefully considered. So, legal solutions always need to avoid any undefined solution, and we think it's an expression within the limits of material possibilities that this right to available and quality health care would not remain in some cases merely a right to paper. It is also important to define the right to information, because if healthcare professionals had any dilemmas when, to whom the patient should be given full information, it is, unfortunately, that in practice some manifest and through full non-information of patients, it is now their obligation to inform, or the right of the patient to be informed very clearly. The principles of the World Health Organization have also been incorporated for the patient to be familiar with the names and professional status of all who participate in the treatment process. In this context, it is important to establish the right of the patient to receive the notice he needs to make a decision to consent or not to agree to the proposed medical measure, as well as the right to a free choice of doctors, healthcare institutions and medical measures. This does not mean that this right too cannot be further defined, especially when it comes to patients' rights to inform about medical research, but colleagues from the DS Parliament Club will discuss it more closely when the debate is in particular. The right to privacy and confidentiality, among other things, implies the patient's right to refuse to have his examination attended by students and students who conduct practical training, health workers, health associates. So I think it's a very important right, because unfortunately some time because, especially at university clinics, it's an opportunity for young health staff to train, where the patient was often in the role of the facility and it can be embarrassing and it's very important that the patient has the right to refuse such a thing. It is also very important that the standards of the Lisbon Declaration of the World Medical Association, when it comes to medical measures, against the will of patients, are incorporated into the law and clearly restricted both by law and medical ethics. I have already mentioned the importance of including important standards when it comes to the rights of children patients, including the right of a 15-year-old child to be able to reason on his own to agree to a medical measure without parental consent. As is known, we have had these solutions since the Family Law since 2005, but we also have it in the Health Protection Act. So these are the standards that, fortunately, we've already adopted and behaved on. On the other hand, in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, if a child aged 15, capable of judgment, refuses the proposed measure, the healthcare professional is obliged, in accordance with the child's best interest, to ask the legal representative to consent. It's also good to give a child the right to a confidential counseling, regardless of the age and no parents' consent, when I say it again, at best, as the law has defined, the child's interest. The DS Parliament Club believes that the rights mentioned above, which I have spoken a little bit about, but also other rights set out in this law, such as the right to ease suffering and pain, the right to object or the right to compensation for damages, will truly contribute to the patient's situation in our health system and lead to a significant improvement in patient rights. However, what may question the achievement of such an ambitious concept of the right of patients in the law is the way in which the role of counsellors for the protection of patients' rights and the Health Council is arranged. In fact, the bill leaves the local self-government to appoint patient rights advisers and finance them. Only a solution to the removal of advisers and health care institutions has its own good side. So a counselor can make it much more independent in performing this role, it's good, but, on the other hand, transferring all obligations to local self-government, including funding, can have negative consequences. We can get into a situation where, in fact, an adviser is already a working lawyer, who already has some obligations in the local administration and that protecting his patients' rights is really a secondary profession, a secondary function. I think that the government in this term has the right to take local self-government, not specifically to the Ministry of Health right now, this may be just an indication of this one conduct, to transfer to local self-government a series of powers and competencies, undecentralised financial resources, and on the other hand, income from local self-government centralizes and withdraws at national level. We're witnessing these days that we're going to have a tax system change, where one of these changes is to cut the income tax. It will directly affect the dramatic reduction of local budgets. So the question is whether it is possible to hire at the level of local self-government, with this poverty of local budgets, new, quality, qualified people that can perform this role. As a Parliament club, we have submitted appropriate amendments to ensure more effective control and protection of patients' rights, because, I said, if they are advisers and lawyers who are already employed, there can indeed be serious questions about these control roles of patient rights advisers. When it comes to the draft law on the protection of persons with developmental disturbances, I must say that this law was much more expected. We have received a very modest attempt at the legal arrangement of this area. In law, when you look at it, you don't recognize any more serious systemic and reformal changes, and as if it were missing, I'd say, professional courage to start with these changes more seriously. I say it begins, because it's clear that reforming this system is a very serious process, that it requires a lot of things, first of all, takes time. It's a very serious topic. The fact that there is still no willingness to start a serious reform in the system of protection of persons with developmental disturbances is shown in the first sentence of the bill's reasoning. It's really weird to write something like that. It states - the legal basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 44. The Health Protection Act, which provides for the procedure, as well as the organisation and conditions of the treatment of mentally ill persons, i.e. the accommodation of these persons in stationary institutions, is governed by a special law. It's like saying -- protecting these faces is the same accommodation in a stationary facility. This sentence shows a general concept of facial protection with developmental interference. It's the accommodation of these faces in a stationary health facility. Staying with this anachron and conservative concept, and now in the form that it is fundamentally legal, is really disappointing. When the legislator speaks of reasons for law-making, it is said that the aim is to establish a higher level of quality of protection of mental health in line with modern achievements. Believe me, no member of the law has a word to say about that. Otherwise, the bill has a very confusing structure. The proposal first contains three short general members on the prohibition of discrimination, the protection of dignity and the prohibition of abuse, and then immediately moves on to the rights of persons with mental impairment, according to a number of these rights. He then goes to organizations that do so. Only two types of health institutions – psychiatric institutions and health homes are listed. Thus, the law does not recognise any other form of provision of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation of persons with mental disorders, such as various daily and therapeutic rehabilitation centres in the community and small home communities, housing with support. In some oral reasons, it is mentioned that the social protection system develops community services, open-type services and that only better inter-resor cooperation is needed. That's right. Such services exist also daily centres or personal assistants, less home communities and housing with support there is, but the health system has not recognized these forms at all as services for persons with mental disorders. Even the bill does not recognise already existing social and health institutions. He didn't mention them in the bill, and right now it was a good opportunity to show that we want those two systems wherever possible, to tie them up. Although the Strategy for the Development of Mental Health Protection mentions deinstitutionalisation as one of the objectives, there is no indication in the proposal for this law that it will enter into changes in the existing one, as I say conservative approach, which dominates long-term housing in institutions, or psychiatric hospitals. As is known in the existing psychiatric clinics in Serbia, an unwarranted number of people has been institutionalised, and an alarming number of them have been housed for more than 10 years. In such conditions, their fundamental human rights have been seriously compromised, and because of long-term institutionalisation and their ability to ever return to the community, they leave the psychiatric hospital and try any form of social integration. So, once again I want to point out, the law does not deal with the regulation of the area of protection of persons with mental disorders. It deals mostly with their rights, and when it comes to improving these rights, it certainly has a serious shift in relation to the current situation. If this law was called a law on rights of persons with mental disorders, he could get a transitional grade, but he had a much more ambitious intention, it's seen from the title, and unfortunately there's no sign of it in the law. I have already pointed out that the law recognises homes of health and psychiatric hospitals and systems, therefore, that there are no even different counselling offices, offices that exist both in the public and private sectors, and then the question arises – does the content of this law apply to them? We have also completely excluded those services provided in that section of the health sector. Also, in this law whose very incompatible structure I have already commented was a place to edit the application of physical restraint and isolation, which should be the subject of some sublegal act, protocol, etc. I hope honestly that so far there have been very clear procedures in the application of physical restraint and isolation in the psychiatric hospital. So I don't see why the law only regulates one form of facial treatment with mental disorders? I also see no reason why only one form of facial treatment with mental disorders is here, and this is electroconvulsive treatment, and I agree with Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic that this is one way of treatment verified by World Health Protection and very clear in which conditions are applied. As stated in the law, one might conclude that only physical obstruction and isolation or electroconvulsive treatment are used in the protection of persons with mental disorders. You really didn't have to put any of the other things in the law. I know that's not the way it is, and that citing these two procedures is more an expression of one bad law-making methodology than the real state of the person's protection system with mental disorders. Finally, the assessment of the DS parliamentary club is that the law on protection of persons with mental disorders does not improve the situation in the area and that, instead of legal solutions encouraging changes and fostering a reform process, in fact, the law preserves one already overcome concept. On the other hand, when it comes to improving the rights of a person with mental disorders, there are good solutions in the law and I repeat, it might have been better if the law only dealt with the rights of persons with mental disorders. As suggested, the DS Parliament Club can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15657	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15658	Dear Mrs. Lucic, as a good acquaintance of social issues and an excellent MP, apparently, has prepared correctly. However, the tendency of the legislator was to pass a law that will not be a dead letter on paper, but we will start applying it after six months when we adopt a certain sublegal act, and without a tendency to impose on other proposings, other ministries, other governmental promoters what arises from the need for human rights never to be enough, especially not human rights for people who have problems with mental disorders. The Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights also applies to persons with mental disorders. All the delicate questions mentioned here, which are considered not to be covered, are actually contained in the first law. We don't think a person with mental disorders should have a problem all his life. Scientific and research procedures and clinical practice have shown that mental illnesses today are very treatable and a large number of them are treatable and someone who has a mental problem at one point becomes only a patient, or citizen to whom the laws we speak apply. We thought we should regulate what's really controversial and what's most striking or say it can be the most problematic when it comes to human rights. It is primarily a way if someone who does not wish to be treated voluntarily and to be subject to certain procedures and mental disorders, but does not want it because he has no insight into his mental function and can be dangerous to his own life and health, or life and health from the environment, must also be admitted against his will to hospital treatment and certain procedures. This is regulated by this law, and despite the fact that the law did not seem to have to cover the issue of isolation and physical fixation, the models of international standards in this area say that it is better for every society to have in the law, especially if it can be suspected that sometimes there are both abuses or insufficient concerns that they normally care about most in this society in this category of person, because jobs in the functioning of good mental health are determined by professional, human and mostly competences. It is not easy to predict how and how isolation is organised, and the sublegal act will detail every step of isolation and physical fixation envisaged and has not found a place in this law. In any case, there may be one controversy in the desire and attempt to contribute to Mrs. Lucic's discussion. On the one hand, it bothers me to even mention large psychiatric hospitals as the most important institution where we often have asylum seekers, not patients. I talked about it yesterday. The law couldn't possibly regulate what to do with those who don't have anywhere in psychiatric hospitals. Deinstitutionalization is our goal, but where are we going to get these people? This must also be done by social institutions, private individuals who want to deal with it and, of course, the health system must recognize them. But under these difficult circumstances, they can't take on the burden of solving what's happening to them. We'd like first of all to have no psychiatric institutions, to solve all the problems in the community. We need to take these steps gradually, and this is an opportunity to say that it is good to go slowly with deinstitutionalization and to develop health, social and all other institutions and to poison their integration in the local community, as a possibility to slowly receive people from large psychiatric hospitals and treatments. It's not the health condition of those people that's the only problem, so it's not just health care where we're going to get them. We also force a hetero-family accommodation and various other ways. This law has tended to improve human rights and regulate the most sensitive issues related to deinstitutionalisation, but through the conditions of equal rights for every man is that man and person with mental disorders who has only a short, large mental disturbance as an episode that will later only remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15659	The word has a folk MP, Ljiljana Lucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15660	Thank you. I want to repeat once again that when it comes to human rights with mental disorders, the law really is a serious step. In particular, we have a very positive view of the Law on Patients' Rights. When we talk about the Law on People with Mental Disturbation, I've just stated that, so if the Law only dealt with rights, we could say that it is a serious step. Normally, then the question would be asked, I would at least ask it – why the special law on the rights of a person with mental disorders, why is it not incorporated? It would open that debate again, but if a big step was made when it comes to human rights people with mental disorders, I'm not questioning it. It's simple, if you write the law, if you call it -- face protection law with mental disorders, then this is very unambitious. In the area of social protection, the process of deinstitutionalisation lasts for years, with less or more success, but you through the law, you give the main guidelines, you encourage professionals by seeing in the spirit of the law how a particular area develops. It will be difficult in this area, when it comes to people with metal interference, but in my opinion, if it's so ambitiously called the law, to introduce different modes, where someone with mental disorders can, except in a health care facility, except in a psychiatric clinic to ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15661	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15662	This is another opportunity for MPs and I to invite all other resolution ministers and institutions and individuals involved in social protection to join us in seeking to improve mental health.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15663	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15664	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today's discussion on the proposed laws on the protection of patients' rights and on the protection of persons with mental disorders in the part of the legislative activities of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia is a very important link in the implementation of planned activities, in the adoption of system laws in the field of health care. Management of health care institutions is well known for the fact that for the quality of health services according to European criteria we are among the 25 ranked countries, unfortunately, in the last place. The poor quality of the medical services provided was also indicated by patients' rights protectors in their annual reports to health care institutions, as well as the Ministry of Health, but in the past there was not enough hearing to adequately respond and improve the quality of the service, as well as the patient's attitude. The adoption of the proposed law on the protection of patients' rights is necessary to better protect the rights of patients, since the aim of the legislator of the special law was to eliminate conflicts of interest and improve the protection of patients' rights at all levels of providing health care, as well as to bring our legal system into line with the European, or the 2002 Roman Charter of Patients' Rights. The very protectors of the patient’s rights pointed to three key moments, i.e. problems in their work so far. The first is the fact that they are in a working relationship with a health institution, which raises the question of independence and objectivity of their actions and creates a conflict of interest. Another problem, according to them, is that patient protection jobs are mostly entrusted to lawyers who were simultaneously engaged in their primary health care affairs, so that the protection of the patient's rights in most cases was a secondary job for which they did not have enough time to carry out it qualityly. The third problem was incomplete and insufficient regulation, which would more precisely regulate the area of protection of patients' rights and conduct under appeal. The new bill regulates the position of advisers and the Health Council at the level of local self-government as the founder of primary health care, thus eliminating the conflict of interest, because the current protector of the right of patients, who is in a working relationship in a health institution, could not be sufficiently removed from his impartiality in dealing with patients' decision-making. Also, it is positive that the deadlines are cut, i.e. Effective treatment in the protection of patients' rights has been achieved, as this type of procedure also implies urgency. As for certain members of this bill, I would also like to give some suggestions that you, the minister, will consider with your members of the expert team, all in order to make better practical application of the law and develop this partnership relationship between health care professionals and patients. Article 29. The bill foresees respect for the patient's time, which is a newspaper, and that's very good, because in the past there have been a lot of complaints from patients about this patient's right. Article 30 provides for the right to object, so the patient is offered an entire range of opportunities to address the health care facility, i.e. the head of the service, the director, and the counsellor for the protection of justice. I think that perhaps already efficiency in the process would be if we had a systematicity, because in 90% of the cases the complaints of patients are not such as to require immediate objection to patient rights counselors, but we mainly solved this at the service level, the existing problem. Articles 32 to 37 provided for the duties of patients and protectors of the patient’s rights to date have long had objections from healthcare professionals that patients believe they have rights, but that they do not have any obligations. This is a partner relationship, so if patients have certain rights, they must also have certain duties. I think that it is necessary to sanction patients in some way in case they do not comply with the general standards of health care institutions and that they respond not only to their actions by registering it in the medical records and refusing to provide health care unless it is an emergency medical measure, but also to sanction the patient for his behaviour in some other way. Articles 38 to 41 provide for the protection of the rights of the patient. The institution is changed to – a counsellor for the protection of rights. It has been said that local self-government determines a counselor. I ask if local self-government counselors will appoint in their congregation? It is understood that the counselor must have five years of work in the profession, that he should know the regulations of the field of health. It may be necessary for a health counselor to have a certain work experience at a health care facility. It is not provided that in the event of a rough breach or the conduct of a healthcare professional, an adviser may immediately notify a health inspection or the health ministry. When it comes to the quality of the work of health care professionals, will the counselor be competent to assess the quality of the services provided, or perhaps in all of that to consult another body, say that he consults the commission that we have to control the quality of the work of health care professionals in health institutions or any other body? Article 41(4) provides that the Director is obliged to notify the adviser of the objection within five days of the date of receipt of the report, and that Article 6 provides that the adviser shall submit the report monthly to the director of the institution. I think all this extra burdens the text of this law. The adviser may submit a report to the City Assembly as an authority to which he is responsible for his work and the Ministry of Health and that is specified in Article 41(7). I ask - is the procedure envisaged and can the counselor and in what cases inform the public and how does he cooperate with the media regarding patients' complaints? Articles 42 and 43 provide for a health advice at the level of local self-government, providing for who chooses the council, but there is no provision for a number of members and a more detailed selection of this body, which is likely to be left to local self-government, but it may not be against the fact that it stands in the proposed law. I think it is necessary to anticipate and ensure better co-operation between the advisers and the Republic Fund, so that the SNS has tabled amendments that we will consider. All in all, partner relations and mutual trust between doctors and patients should be the most important segment of this law. The law will contribute to this partnership only if other health laws are changed in accordance with the rights of patients mentioned here and who we all care about, therefore we expect a new law on health care and health insurance that the SNS advocates and in whose design it will make a full contribution. As for the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, the long-awaited Law. We are finally going into reform of Serbian psychiatry, because there is no health without mental health. Mental health has a central place in the human, social and economic capital of the nation and should therefore be considered an essential and integral part of other areas of public policy such as human rights, social protection, education and employment. In this regard, the SNS indicates that the treatment of vulnerabilitating population groups, including mentally ill persons, is closely linked to respect for human rights and that because of this situation in psychiatric hospitals and social protection institutions, we have had serious objections from the institutions of the Council of Europe, the UN, international NGOs. I'll just mention the 2007 NDR report. I hope that the proposed law is the first link, and I hope that in the time when the conditions are obtained, the concept of protection of mental health in the community with a significant reduction of asylum, because because of the existence of asylum institutions for the long-term stay of psychiatric patients in which they are being treated, I would not comment on the way they are being treated, Serbia took part in one of the Stability Pact projects in the period between 2003 and 2007 to achieve internationally acceptable standards promoted by the World Health Organization and to implement psychiatric reform. I would like to remind you that the National Commission for Mental Health in the project in 2004 has also drafted a draft law on the protection of the rights of mentally ill persons, that the Minister of Health at a Ministerial Conference in Helsinki has signed a Declaration on Mental Health, that in my town of Nis in the municipality of Median in 2005, a pilot project "The First Serbian Centre for the Protection of Mental Health in the Community" was opened and was written in January 2007, and adopted by the Government a document on a national strategy for mental health. All the activities listed will contribute to EU accession because we seek European standards and hope that, in the near future, we will also be able to move on to this concept of mental health protection in the community, because the work of mobile psychiatric services in the community through the creation of individual treatment programmes for each psychiatric patient on a particular territory through the organisation of home visits, opening protected apartments, continuous monitoring of patient status and through many other activities on the ground will provide a comprehensive continued treatment of mentally ill persons both during the course of hospitalisation and after the layoff, and thus to the least possible extent possible awareness of the possibility of worsening mental health that could lead to aggressive behaviour and the execution of criminal activity. In voting day, the SNS will support both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15665	Since authorised representatives have wasted their time, we are now moving on to the list and is the first MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15666	Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that since the minister has turned out to be very correct and informed me, since I am the first on the list of speakers, that you set a break because the minister has a brief meeting, because I wanted to make certain views on behalf of the parliamentary group. Probably the minister was supposed to answer some questions, but I can't talk to the chair. Since the minister has a brief meeting, I would suggest that on the basis of Article 27, you set a break until the minister returns so that we can work and discuss quality. With all due respect to his associates, he certainly won't have the authority of the minister to answer all questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15667	I assumed you might respect the minister's commitment since they're associates. But you're right, and I have to take a break while the minister meets with a party he can't postpone. We'll take a 20-minute break and start at 12.20 minutes. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Just to be clear, I have agreed with the MPs, since the minister has not arrived yet, that I should go to a number of MPs who wish to speak without the minister's presence, who will arrive in the meantime. Therefore, I give my word to MP Radoslav Komlenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15669	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the people, respected citizens of Serbia, the JS parliamentary group will support the two laws immediately in the day to vote. We are pleased that these laws are in the process and we believe that they should have come to debate in this high house before. Since so far my colleagues, the MPs, have defined themselves and said a lot about the Law on Patients' Rights, my presentation will be focused on the protection of persons with mental disorders. The JS parliamentary group will support this bill, as the principles of JS, as political organisations, are the protection of all socially endangered persons, and in this group, so do those with mental disorders. The reasons for the adoption of laws on persons with mental disorders are the need for the area of mental health to be regulated in a more complete way with a basic goal of establishing a higher level of quality and protection of mental health. There is no special law in the Republic of Serbia that regulates the area of protection of mental health. The issues related to the protection of the rights of the person with mental disorders are somewhat regulated, but rather diverged in specific, positive legal regulations, so that many of the specifics appear to be unarranged or poorly arranged. For this reason, access is made to the development of a strategy for the protection of mental health, the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 8/07. As the strategy promotes the need for reform of the system, this law is a logical process that will adequately and effectively regulate the mechanism for protecting human rights of persons with mental disorders. The adoption of this law aims to particularly regulate the organisation and implementation of mental health, manner and procedure, as well as the way, procedure, organisation and conditions of treatment and housing of persons with mental disorders in stationary health institutions and other health institutions. People suffering from mental disorders are not isolated cases, nor is it a negligible category of population. Mental disturbances are a large group of heterogeneous disorders that threaten more than 25% of people during different periods of life, regardless of social status or origin. According to a 2003 World Health Organization mental health report, about 340 million people, 45 million people of schizophrenia and 29 million people of dementia suffer from depression alone. About 20% of people who visit doctors of general practice can be identified by one or more mental disorders among the most often and most incapacitating. According to the above, there should be added interference with the use of psychoactive, psychocontrolled substances of alcohol and drugs, epilepsy and mental retardation. According to estimates from 2000, mental disorders and behavioural disorders were the cause of 12.3% of all losses in the midst of illness, injuries and 30.8% of years spent with disability and represent three of the 20 leading causes of death worldwide. A person suffering from mental disorders is particularly sensitive to human rights violations. Because of their tendency to be viewed as different and potentially dangerous persons, society led them to increasing isolation, so that such persons were placed in asylums, where various restrictions on movement were applied, different forms of forced treatment, inclusion, binding and physical punishment without supervision or control. The abuse of the rights of psychiatric patients existed outside of asylum and was reflected in various ways, and often as unwarranted therapeutic procedures. The scientific understanding of mental disorders has advanced over the last few decades. New diagnostic methods, new knowledge in brain physiology and understanding of individual psychology have led to significant improvements. As a result, there was a need to pass such a law that would fully regulate the treatment process and way, but primarily protect the human rights of these patients. The Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders exists only in 20 countries of Europe. Its adoption is the obligations of all the countries of the Balkan Stability Pact of Southeast Europe, and has become the obligation of all the countries of Europe that are members of the World Health Organization since December 2005 in Helsinki, so that all governments, i.e. the health ministries, are obliged to pass a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. In line with the above, the law contains provisions relating to improving the right of a person with mental disorders, predicting and forming organisational units of health care institutions with mental disorders, defining an individual treatment plan with mental disorders, volunteering of a person with mental disorders in a psychiatric institution, reasons for detention and accommodation without consent to a psychiatric institution, discharge from a psychiatric institution, the rights and duties of a person with mental disorders in a psychiatric institution, the application of physical restraint and isolation, special forms of treatment of persons with mental disorders and the introduction of a criminal policy to violate certain provisions of this law. The most important thing in the application of this law is the role of a court that decides on ways of reception, detention, dismissal and the rights of a person with mental disorders, the deadlines are urgent, strictly pre-exclusive. Articles 13 and 14 of the Law clearly stipulates how health records and preventions and treatment methods are to be conducted to ensure the best appropriate medical procedure. Article 16 states that no medical measure will be implemented without prior consent of an informed person with mental interference with the law. Articles 18 and 19 stipulate that unless a person is able to give his consent, he may be subject to treatment only with the consent of his legal representative, and if there is no legal representative, and treatment is necessary to prevent his health from getting worse. He suggests that the decision be taken by the medical doctor's council. Because of everything presented in this law, the JS parliamentary group supports the adoption of this law, because we believe that and how to improve the treatment conditions of these persons, and we are all unfortunately witnesses of creepy images, in what state institutions such as the special hospital "Laza Lazarevic", a special hospital in Toponica near Nis or hospitals in Kovin. We are proposing, and it is necessary to make significant efforts to get these institutions in order and get a humane environment for all sensitive patients. Once again, I would like to stress that the JS parliamentary group will support both laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15670	I thank you for your understanding. Since the minister has arrived, we're moving to order. I also thank the MP Dusan Milosavljevic, who accepted to speak, but now we are going in order. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15671	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the correctness, for respecting the Rules of Procedure, and the only reason why we have no time to coordinate to speak to MPs who wanted to speak without the minister's presence. I just wanted to get answers, specifically from Madam Minister, to some questions I'm going to ask and which I believe are in the general interest. When we talk about the health system at all, I think we should all get up on this pedestal of objectivity and see a lack of money in the health system, really commend the extraordinary experts we have, not only known in Serbia, but also in the world, but I think all the problems that burden our health system are primarily systemic. Therefore, on behalf of our parliamentary group, we will make some concrete proposals. All of this about patients' rights and the rights of persons with mental disorders are good solutions and that's, in any case, a step forward from what we've had so far. It seems to us that without a thorough reform of the overall health system, first and foremost without the adoption of a new health care law and health insurance law, which you, Madam Minister, have said, we cannot fully apply what the legislator is up to. That is why, because this kind of reform requires the very important participation of several ministries, it seems to us that, in the interests of both the ministries and the health system and all the citizens of Serbia and all patients, whether those reforms should be entered as soon as possible. Without the individual mention of the extraordinary experts we have, I will mention only some institutions that are famous, not only for us, but also for the world, such as the Dedinje Hospital or the Eye Clinic in Pasterovo or the orthopedic clinic Banjica or the facility in Sremska Kamenica, etc. And a lot of good doctors we have. However, the fact is that we patients' rights, which are quite correctly listed, will not be able to fully apply tomorrow in practice. The current system is unsatisfactory. Health care professionals are also dissatisfied, unsatisfactory doctors, dissatisfied nonmedical staff working in health institutions are dissatisfied patients. That is why we believe that we could ever reach a satisfactory level of health care, and here we are in the infamous last 34th place in Europe, we are the worst and in the environment, that it is necessary to enter the necessary reforms as soon as possible. It is good that the law, for example, allows for a second opinion, which is the legal elimination of the vanity that is present in all professions, and it seems to us in the medical profession. Then, what is this right to confidential counselling and patient counselling, etc. What we've always potentiald for, as a parliamentary group, before and now, these are the good examples that exist in the world. First of all, we're right-handed, we advocate competition, but competition on sound grounds. We still don't have any real competition in our health system, no choice of medical care, no objective choice of citizens where to be treated, one availability of healthcare, whether to be treated in a private or state hospital and to open this game of positive competition on sound grounds. It's something that's probably the first step to take. Secondly, as far as doctors are concerned, it is certain that people who have graduated from college, especially specialists, are able to behave, but they are often dissatisfied with the general environment in which they work, behave differently in state institutions compared to private institutions. Many times we have all been witnesses, myself personally, good examples from the world, where, say, the director of some respected clinic invites us home for dinner of a good doctor and members of his family out of respect for his work. I also mentioned some good examples, say from the Czech Republic, from the state eye clinic, where the chief nurse escorts the patient to the gate. I was, like all of us, a witness to both good and bad behavior of medical staff. At a famous clinic in Belgrade, apparently a patient in big trouble asked a doctor for only one brief information, and he received an answer – today I did a good deed, enough for today. Who's supposed to react here now to honor the human dignity of patients who are in trouble as soon as they're in a health care facility? It needs to react to the entire system and it needs to be in the selection of health care institutions managers to implement other criteria, not only party management, and they simply know – if I am partyly appointed, while my party is in power, I can do whatever I want, I don't care about patients and doctor behaviour, etc. Doctors working in the country are better paid in Slovenia than doctors working in the city. Why don't Serbia take that example? We've got a lot of infirmarys, health homes, I'm gonna get a lot of responsibilities, local self-governments, etc., where we can hire and stimulate people who are out of work and who would gladly accept working in the village. First of all, I think... (President: Please finish. )......................................................................................................... I end up, in the current difficult economic condition that, however, that's what medicine says, good, relaxing, nice word, nice reception, basic cures. If that's not there, if there are no drugs, if there are no machines, if it's a difficult economic situation, if you have a bad reception, then it's really not a system that can achieve and justify the purpose of its existence. Minister, I thank you once again for your correctness, and I thank you, the chairman, and I hope that all of this is in my best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15672	The next speaker should be Milica Vojic Markovic. I have to find out he's not here. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15673	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Prof. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a very important law, one of the most important laws that treat our rights. Each of us can at some point become a patient and face problems that exist in Serbia's health system. It is no secret that more than publicly, clearly and many times I have found that the health care system in Serbia has been working very badly for the past 20 years, that in one state, not the nocdown, but the knockout, one permanent knockout from which it cannot rise and provide care, attention and treatment to our citizens. Currently, our health care system is only working on the enthusiasm of doctors and nurses, who are savingly and responsibly doing their job in order to help Serbian citizens. What are our rights when we get sick and face a state of health? Very bad. A few weeks ago, I try to draw attention to what happened in Serbia, which is a major humanitarian action by Serbian citizens and their struggle for the heart of small Tijana. With surprise, I can tell that the state was deaf, blind, aside, watching the parents fight for their child's life, watching that little child's struggle that had to go to the stands of some humanitarian action to make sure that the child was really sick. This is creepy, devastating to me, and we have to do this case, where Serbian citizens have made it clear that something is wrong with the health care system, that it is not normal for the health care system to recognize the needs of little Tiana, little Christine, that something is wrong and that we have to change it. This law respects the rights of patients, and I tell you that every day in many hospitals, fundamental human rights, patients' rights, basic constitutional right -- the right to treatment. I will once again focus this discussion on institutionally addressing the problem of treating children abroad. I can tell you that a few minutes ago, I also had a meeting with the head of the National Assembly's cabinet with this particular subject, that I had a meeting with Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, the Director of the Fund, Professor Babic, the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic and the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, where I gave the initiative on how to solve the problem. And I'm going to take this opportunity to say that the solution to the problem has to be quick, it has to be systematic, so that we no longer look at poor parents who are facing the death diagnosis of their child and in this chaos they are chasing, begging, begging for money to try to fight for their child's life. It's a clear violation of the human rights of the patient by the state. The state must no longer be silent and deaf for the needs of our young citizens, our young patients, and I use this opportunity to point to this problem. The agreement was reached to revise the existing Regulation on the sending of children abroad of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The existing rule doesn't recognize the needs of little Tijana, it doesn't recognize the needs of our fellow citizens who have a heart transplant problem. My colleague, if you're already angry that I'm talking about this, these are basic patient rights and this law absolutely has to regulate those rights. I'm glad we're talking today about real patients and the law that would regulate those rights. About this law, my counterpart from Nis, Zoran Radovanovic said that in 2000 it was the idea for him to be put into congregation procedure. I can tell you that when I was elected president of the Health and Family Committee, my first task was to write a bill on the protection of patients' rights. Such a law has been in the Serbian Parliament since September 18th and today has been the subject of different discussions. The Ministry of Health has made a similar bill. I am pleased that today we have the opportunity to talk about this law, that we have the opportunity to improve in the interests of Serbian citizens, in the interest of patients their rights, to clearly regulate this relationship between doctors and patients and all their rights. I want to tell you as the person who wrote this law, since I have become familiar with the laws of all European countries that treat patients' rights, with the American bill of law that exists, that 70% of this law, which is proposed by the Resort Ministry, is good. However, I am expressing my doubts about the functionality of this law, and that is why it is a little bitter taste that we will not be able to apply the good law, which we will trip in a few months to enforce this law. My bill predicted that the Serbian Parliament formed another independent assembly body that would play a role in protecting patients' rights. The law you'll be voting in a few days provides for the introduction of a patient's rights advisor. If my human rights and my rights of the patient were compromised, I don't need someone to advise me whether someone hurt me or not, whether my child has suffered any damage to the organ or don't God forbid that a child has exercised, I need a person to protect my rights. So it's not to advise me, it's to protect my rights. My suggestion is that they be a congregation body, completely independent. We have several very good independent congregation bodies. This law provides that local self-governments form a patient rights adviser, so I ask you, are you sure that in Serbia of the 200 municipalities of all these municipalities have the capacity to form a patient's rights adviser? Will many municipalities, local municipality presidents or local sheriffs, local officials, who will elect these patient rights advisers, allow that patient's rights counselor, when there is injury to the very patient seeking compensation, who asks to sue that institution, to take part in his counseling on how to sanction this institution from happening again? I don't think that's going to work, and it's going to do something like repeat itself over the years when we had protectors of the rights of patients who were workers of clinical centres, homes of health. I don't remember any case of such a protector of patients' rights, who worked at a clinical center, a health home or any health care facility, sided with Serbian citizens, sided with the patient. If he did, his director would fire him and tell him – man, you're working against your institution. We need to have an independent congregation body. I have proposed several amendments that would regulate, which would introduce this into an independent, secure form and that would give this law wind in the back and the possibility of implementation. If the law is passed in this scope, since I have already written a proposal for this law, I will submit the motion to amend this law tomorrow, and I will put it back in the assembly procedure. Time will show whose proposal was better. I think the Serbian Parliament, as the roof and control institution of all state authorities, should have its own independent body dealing with the protection of the patient's rights. We've talked a lot about what our rights are when we meet in the health care system. I'll tell you that I'm a publicly clear fighter for the protection of patients' rights. We in Serbia today face patients' rights violations at every turn. The waiting list is, in my opinion, potential corruption lists. A lot of waiting lists for patients in hospitals are artificially made for me. A lot of health care directors have private offices based on someone else's name and a lot of health care directors deliberately do not participate in the active making of a tender, deliberately causing a lack of certain medical devices and aids that should be installed to patients. How do we explain that there are 20,000 Serbian citizens waiting for cataract surgery in Serbia? How do we explain that we are still waiting for hip surgery in Serbia? How do you explain that our nation is fragile, that there's no way the state can cover our citizens' most essential dental repairs? Many violations of our citizens' rights, our patients are present. Wherever you go, those rights break. Not to talk about patients' rights when they come to a health care facility with their medical book, when they pay for that health insurance, and when interceptors interceptors intercept them, I call them interceptors, I don't call them doctors or nurses who tell them -- you can't be checked in our office today because our instruments aren't sterile, you have a big crowd, you go into a private office. My dear MPs, a respected minister, I think it's abuse of office, it's a crime for me, for someone to use the torment of patients, to send him from the state institution into private only for the sake of money. I'm telling you that the doctor's profession is 90% proud of what it does and that it does its job well, but that we have a dozen percent of doctors who have long gone over the red Hippocrates line, doctors who don't see the patient as a sick man, but see him as 50 or 100 euros and watch him earn. A lot of things that are wrong with this health care system. I'm going to keep talking and insist that we get serious into the system of reform of our system, because this is how many patients lose their lives, many patients come to a state of disability without the state reacting. I advocate, in addition to adopting a good law on the protection of patients' rights in entering the reform of the existing Health Protection and Health Insurance Act, because they are already very outdated, they are very conservative and because Serbian citizens are not satisfied with such laws. The reform of this system is necessary. It was also advocated in 2003 by World Health Organisation rules, but nothing has been done since. If I mention to you that Serbia has twice the mortality rate for all causes of death or three times the mortality rate due to blood and blood vessels disease, it is clear the size of the problem and is a clear message about the violation of our fundamental human rights, our rights to fight for life. This means that unfortunately, in Serbia, it is not a problem to get sick, unfortunately in Serbia, the problem is to treat. Because many health systems don't work properly, in a way that would allow our patients to be taken care of quickly and efficiently. I'd like to give one review of, according to me and the DS, unnecessary spending of money, even though we're a poor country, even though we say we don't have the money for health care. I'll ask -- why did we give 10m euros to build a gondola on the Kopalnik? Why did we give 300m euros for the Valjevo-Loznica railway? Who's gonna ride that railroad? Sick patients who die every day? Children who can't go to treatment? Why are we throwing away money and such a poor country? Why we gave 11m euros for the shipbuilding subsidy. What kind of shipbuilding? Is that this channel that's going to go to the Aegean Sea? I really don't know. Twentym euros in loans to Republika Srpska for the purchase of computers and for Serbia's health and for Serbian citizens - nothing. These people here, they can be criticized, some can praise them, but they've entered a system that's destroyed. We need this country to take seriously that the health of our nation is the most important thing if we don't understand it even though we're throwing money at this kind of thing. Twenty-fivem euros were given by the government for tourism subsidies. One hundred and thirty-twom euros for construction of RTB Boru, which climbed to 300m euros. A total of 513m euros were spent on these projects. I'm asking you for our health, and the state couldn't afford to treat little Tiana abroad. I'm asking you for the second time, the state of Serbia, the Republic government kept quiet when little Tiana fought for her life. When Serbian citizens stood up and fought for it instead of the state. Our Constitution guarantees the right to be treated. Our constitution says everyone in Serbia has the right to be treated. If our health doctrine can't cure a patient, it's clear that the Republic Fund sends such a patient abroad. My dear friends, members of parliament, many things that sting in the health care system, I honestly believe this law is good, but that in application it will fall into a dead end. We very much need a single fight for better quality health. Without this honest fight for better quality health, we will have daily different humanitarian actions, and unfortunately watch as our citizens slowly disappear from this planet. I'm going to finish this exhibit of mine with a desire to try and get this law done, to introduce it, to me, into a functional phase. If you accept a few of the amendments that I have submitted, I believe this law will be functional. If not, if the ruling majority adopts it, I will tomorrow submit a proposal to amend the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, and in six seven months we will see whether in Babusnica, Crno Trava, Bosilegrad, Vlasotinac or some other small environments, some local powermaker, has made it possible to protect patients' rights or not. If not, I call on you, if you do not have the courage to accept the amendments that are coming, perhaps for you, unfortunately from the opposition party, and me as an opposition MP, then I will ask you that in six months, that this right to protect patients' rights be regulated in a way that will be functional, that this assembly adopt an independent assembly body that would deal with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15674	Thank you. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15675	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, is one of three worldly professions, a doctor, a teacher and a judge. So one of the three pillars of each state and a doctor is not just a profession it's in a certain way and a mission, so we joined as a parliamentary group, analysing the bill proposals that are ahead of us. Therefore, public health is certainly the most important capital of the population of the people and of the state. Care and ways of caring for it clearly demonstrate the responsibility and maturity of society, the functioning of institutions and the quality of the laws adopted in terms of regulation of this area. Public health has been taken care of by a system that takes care of it through prevention or resolution of the health problems of the population, but of course with all those accompanying technical services that are necessary for a modern health policy to be implemented. In addition to focusing on health promotion as the most important social interest, the strategic directions of public health care focus on better organisation of health care systems and all of those legal acts and accompanying sublegal acts that are necessary for it to be implemented in full quality by citizens. Permanent development and improvement of health policies, their alignment with world conventions is certainly necessary. The bill on patients' rights and the proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders is an attempt to improve our current health practice, introduces a little more order into rather problematic Serbian health, which we have all talked about so far and what we are all aware of. And to clearly define the support of the state by further improving the health of the population. It's a difficult task. After many years of bad habits and patients and doctors, after the clear corruption that exists, after many burdensome situations that we have all talked about, after many unprofessionalisms, after many abuses, but certainly a lot of professional and very high ethical behaviour in health there is and which is certainly a foothold for further progress and further work on improving health. We use the term health system because it really is. Every change and positive and negative in the system seems very wide and very deep. So we have to think about it knowing that every member that these laws propose, every amendment that is adopted, I always stress the change in someone's life. That's what we need to be managed and defined. So, we have two draft laws, and that's the Law on the Rights of Patients that concerns all of us here who should certainly define, in accordance with ethics and with our ethnic psychology, a clear health policy, and we have defined ourselves, it seems to me to be a holistic approach to our national strategy. We have a law that has been shy for 13 years to come before the MPs, in front of any call, we were fortunate to come before our meeting of the Republic of Serbia. So, a law dealing with a highly sensitive population, very present in a country in transition, such as Serbia, which survived all those frustrations, which has a break-up behind it, war, migration, the devasting of the economy, forced migration, the absence of a job, the destruction of the family. So, depression and a lot of people with mental health problems. We're unfortunately like a state at the top of the world right now. So, we're going to spend a lot of energy explaining for and against individual solutions to these legal proposals, but we're all going to agree that these two laws are very important to us and that we should have implemented them in our legislative practice much earlier. The NS Parliament Club didn't have much of a dilemma whether it would support these two proposals. We analyzed certain attitudes, e.g. in Article 6(2), the following paragraph is added: The Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, cited several types of discrimination that are excluded, so we felt it was unnecessary to state as a form of discrimination the time of access to health care. So no one can be discriminated on that element simply, nor called to it as discrimination, because you have health service hours, you have emergency services, so someone can't be admitted at all times, so it's not a form of discrimination. We know exactly what kind of discrimination is, it's arranged by one other law. Also, in Article 7(2), we felt that it was a little undefined when it was said – a patient can receive a timely right to information, timely and in a way that is in his best interest. Timeliness is a very discriminatory regulation. What can be taken into consideration? It's no manual category, especially in health care where deadlines are very important, treatment deadlines, effects, interventions, means monitoring effects. So what's his best interest? It is an idea that will be subject to a free assessment and a free evaluation of a healthcare professional can be discriminatory and this, by a little broad interpretation, can be questioned by a very important institute of trust, mutual trust of doctors and patients. But again, the law is passed in the hope that it will be implemented in the best way and that the best will consider it as some kind of ethical code. We had a significant dilemma about the legally regulated right to privacy and the availability of information, which we all agreed on here. So, the availability of patient medical records information, that's where we've had our doubts especially in that article that applies to children and the famous 15-year-old limit. However, Article 24(2) has resolved this dilemma and I think it is well done. We believe that he has left a significant opportunity for a healthcare professional to act highly professionally, highly ethically and in the best interests of the child. Of course, there will always be a possibility of abuse, anything used, evil or malicious people can abuse, so there are sanctions. We try to raise awareness in this, in the best sense, that every law is to our advantage. We had a dilemma about Article 23, paragraph 3. The availability of information from medical records to individual legal entities. I believe that the same space has been left here for the partial abuse of this law, so we ask the minister to consider a correction through the amendments, but there will be more words about it later in the debate in particular. We also had misunderstandings about patient rights counselors, but not in the sense that his existence was necessary, of course, we certainly consider it necessary, the dilemma was about a year's work experience, which was mentioned yesterday by my colleague Dubravka Filipovski, about his experience. So, we thought that even someone younger with less work experience could get involved in this problem, even with more enthusiasm and desire, more to confirm about the transfer – whether to stay in a health care facility or in a local self-government? We believe that whatever the law decides, it will be wrong, or whatever the law decides, it will do the right thing. You have the same number of arguments why it is necessary to remain in a health institution and the same number of why it is necessary to be in local self-government, as much as against, so that we have simply accepted that what is in the legal solution should be imperative for all and that there will be further practice to show which solution was needed. The bill on the protection of patients with mental disorders is particularly sensitive, I said, and its implementation will likely encounter many problems and it will probably come very soon before the MPs of the National Assembly with the need to make some changes and additions, but it is certainly a real step and a big step and a necessary step. Of course, practice will show both the ministry and us what might change in walking, again for the benefit of all citizens, above all this particularly sensitive population group. So, what we are prepared as a parliamentary group to welcome is a significant step in health policy. We support the Ministry's courage to put these two laws before MPs, and we support the willingness to follow it in implementation. We believe that as a country in transition, and transition is a revolution, it is not armed, but there are great victims and we are all aware of them and we think that these very two legal solutions should be both with this segment of society and our social life and the problem of fighting. We believe that, as a parliamentary group, we can support the adoption of these laws, following, of course, very high quality amendments and well-intentioned amendments of all parliamentary groups, with common wishes that tomorrow our health care, this devastated, this much trouble, is better and used, because we all need it and need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15676	Thank you. The next speaker should be Milos Aligrudic, I realize he's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15677	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a respected minister with my associates, I will talk today about amending the Law, or a bill on the protection of persons with mental disorders. Protecting persons with mental disorders in a comprehensive way is a newspaper, both in the health and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Until now, this area has not been comprehensively regulated in such a systematic way, but has appeared to be individual provisions of sectoral laws governing health care, as well as judicial procedural law governing the extraparnical procedure. This law represents a step in the field of protection, especially sensitive categories of persons, who are often unaccepted in society, encounter misunderstandings and very often inadequate care and treatment. The system of the proposed law is such that principles are primarily defined in the treatment of persons with mental disorders and then the rights of those persons. The significant newspaper introduced by the law is the provision that treatment of persons with mental disorders, whenever possible, is carried out at the level of primary health care, as well as the obligation of a healthcare institution that performs the health care of persons with mental disorders, that it always makes up an individual treatment plan for that person, as well as the obligation to include members of his family in the course of treatment, unless this could have a negative impact on the course of treatment. This enables the inclusion of the person with mental disorders and his socialization, as well as the active contribution of members of his family to healing. The law also provides for modern solutions regarding patients' rights, relating to persons with mental disorders, predicting that undermining such a person's medical treatment always requires his consent if such a person is able to form and clearly express his will, i.e., if he is able to understand the nature, procedure and risk of the proposed medical measure. In addition, this law lays down conditions for the treatment of such a person and without its consent, the objectives and purpose of such treatment and the duration of the treatment. The law on previous solutions brings a whole set of newspapers to the point of treating a person with mental disorders at a psychiatric facility. First of all, they expand and further specify provisions that regulate the accommodation of a person with mental disorders in a psychiatric institution based on his consent. Then, clearly and precisely define the criteria for the lodging and retention of a person in a psychiatric institution without his consent and significantly regulate the provisions of the procedure by regulating in a uniform manner the rules of procedure in a medical institution and the rules of the court of law, which has not been the case so far. In this part of the bill, for the first time, it recognises and regulates the detention procedure of a person who was placed in an institution on the basis of his consent, and then recalls that consent. The proposed provisions significantly shorten the deadlines for handling by the psychiatric institution and the court, given that it is an urgent procedure to apply a restrictive measure limiting the fundamental constitutional right of citizens, the right to freedom of movement and housing, in order to protect that person or other persons to whom it can harm. Also, the paper represents a definition of the rights that are reserved in a psychiatric institution for treatment, as well as a clear regulation of the conditions and procedure for approving the measures of physical restraint and coercion on persons with mental disorders governing the reasons for the application of these measures, its duration and the jurisdiction to determine it. The law also introduces the obligations of authorised officials, police, to assist healthcare professionals in overcoming resistance, which such a person may provide when implementing the decommissioning and co-opting measures to apply appropriate medical treatment. The conditions with the obligation to record such actions are also defined. Finally, conditions for the application of the so-called electroconvulsive facial treatment method with mental disorders as an extreme medical measure have been defined, with these conditions being cumulatively met, and in particular the condition that all other treatment methods must be previously undertaken, with a clear ban on such methods being applied during treatment of children. All in all, it is a law that for the first time in a comprehensive way regulates the treatment of a person with mental disorders, as well as persons with special needs, establishes their rights, defines the procedure for voluntary and forced treatment and detention in a psychiatric institution, according to constitutional and legal provisions on the rights and freedoms of citizens. It significantly shortens the adoption of deadlines on citizens' rights and freedoms. It significantly shortens the deadlines so far for the handling of health institutions and courts and regulates the conditions of handling of healthcare professionals and police officials under special circumstances. Article 32 defines a court procedure for detention without the consent of a person with mental disorders at a psychiatric facility. At the same time in the transitional and final provisions, it is proposed to repeal the provisions of the Act on non-parny proceedings governing the procedure of lodging in a psychiatric institution with mental disorders. By doing so, this law would in a unique way regulate the whole procedure that health institutions, other organisations and competent courts conduct when it comes to forced detention and treatment of persons with mental disorders. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The bill provides that the court, before making a decision on the retention of a person with mental disorders in a psychiatric institution, without his consent, is obliged to obtain written findings and opinions from a psychiatrist on the list of permanent judicial practitioners, i.e. the opinion of a child psychiatrist in the case of a person under the age of 18, a child. The purpose of such a provision is to allow the court, impartially and objectively, to decide on the necessity of forced detention in a psychiatric institution, given that such a decision limits the fundamental fundamental right, the right to freedom of movement and residence. Thus, such provisions oblige the court, which otherwise does not have the relevant expertise in the field of medicine, to find out and the opinion of the psychiatric institution about the need to detain a person with mental disorders without his consent by obtaining another report and opinion from a psychiatrist and a permanent court expert. In this direction, it is intended to further clarify the intensity of the proposings and also make it easier for courts to apply the law in the future. In this way, a person who participates in a court procedure would be removed from the circle of persons who would be personally interested, who could be suspected of the objectivity of findings and opinions and doubts of acting in accordance with the rules of the profession. Otherwise, the characteristics of a person in relation to a person with mental disorders are the basis for disfellowshipping, the exemption of a court expert, but also the judges in that case, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Criminal Procedure Act, which is also subsidized to this procedure. On the grounds of exclusion, that is, the exclusion, here is added the circumstance that a court expert cannot be a person employed in the same psychiatric institution because of the suspicion that a collegiate relationship and avoiding conflict of expert opinions could be a reason for objectivity. In the light of the legal and technical regulation of the cited member and of the purpose, namely the objective of its provisions, we believe that it is necessary for the text of this law to clearly contain that restriction, taking into account the practical and legal consequences of such a single court decision. We, as a PUPS parliamentary group, intervened with the amendment to Article 32. I stress that our parliamentary group will vote for this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15678	The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will talk about the Law on Patients' Rights, considering this to be an extremely important law, and I am glad that, after a long time of preparation, he came to the assembly procedure and that we have the opportunity to discuss it. As opposition MPs, we followed the public debate that was under way about this law and we followed all the objections and comments that were made during this public debate. It is certain that this is one of the most important laws, since it is one human right, such as the right to health. It is a modern human right that has also been provided to the pacts on economic and social rights, many conventions. It's very important that we don't take this as some kind of medical law. It is precisely a law concerning all citizens of Serbia, because we can all be patients and we were patients and all of our loved ones can be or are patients. Therefore, only the recognition of this right to health implies today a change in the relationship between a patient and a health worker. This change of attitude is something that is reflected well in this law, and in this sense I would like to commend the intention and manner in which it is highlighted in this bill, because this change in relationships implies that the patient is becoming less and less an object. It stops being a protection facility. He becomes an active participant in protecting his health, taking over certain obligations. There is a growing demand for the introduction of a dialogue relationship between health care professionals, doctors and patients. Therefore, it is increasingly necessary to include the patient in this therapeutic enterprise. This bill really respects these requirements. It is very clear in Article 3 that this partnership relationship and the importance of patient personal attitudes, mutual trust, etc. In that sense, the intentions of this law are truly best. As opposition MPs, we cannot criticise that intention at all. We commend her anyway. The fact is, too, that this law has very great ambitions, given the state of our poor health, which has been suffering the consequences of the economic crisis and one great jihad and one great incompetence in the management of our health system and health institutions for decades. However, I would also have to point to some of the indiscretions that exist in this bill, something that can create a space for certain manipulations, or abuses. I think that, as opposition MPs, we are obliged to point out and invite everyone to look at all the well-intentioned ways of looking at all the amendments that have been submitted to this law, because, as I said, it is in our interest that this law be the best possible, because it really concerns all citizens of Serbia. I wouldn't repeat myself in the part where everyone's already pointed out, which is good, if this law predicted some new patient rights. I think it is good of his intention to include in one place all the rights of patients that have been provided for so far by the Health Protection Act and some other laws, medicines, etc. That's very good, and I also commend it. There is one thing that confuses us, or asks us a question. One is, of course, the right of the patient to privacy, or confidentiality of the data. It is the right that arises from the right to privacy and are established, above all, that this is the right in our terms, given how our health institutions function, given the overload of our hospitals that this right is actually very difficult to achieve in practice. That's one question. The second question is what Commissioner Sabic rightly pointed out in a public debate, which is the question of the availability of data from medical records to some other non-healthy workers who treat the patient. This applies to insurance companies, which refers to other legal entities which are said to have the right to access medical records under the law. I think it's too broadly given the right to see medical records and that it can be easily violated in this way and that in this way, in fact, the right to the patient's privacy is threatened. I think the good announcements we heard during yesterday's debate are, and I see that there is some willingness to prepare at the level of the Health Committee an amendment that will go in the direction of acceptance and remarks by Commissioner Shabic. I see there may be a willingness to adopt such an amendment. It'll be a good amendment and a good solution anyway. The second question, which I would like to point out is Article 25, and the right of a patient in case of medical research. It seems to me that this bill has failed to define what is meant by medical research? I know there are other provisions on this issue, that there is a Convention of the Council of Europe, that there is a Helsinki Declaration of the Ethics Code, all of which we have read, etc. But, you know, our patients are going to read this law and it would be good to have information in this law on what is legally understood under medical research. Is it an epidemiological study, commercially, non-commercial, etc? These are all important questions for a patient who wants to protect his rights. With that in mind, I would also point to this provision that I don't think is good, which is that the patient should be sufficiently informed about the research he's offered to participate in. Who's going to assess whether enough information is given to the patient in that case? It might be better if the bill provides that information is given in writing, which would contain basic research information, who is implementing it, who is funding it, what are the objectives, what are the dangers, etc. In this way, there would be one clue left by the representatives of the health care institution about the information given to the patient and in this way, I think the right of patients would be much better protected in that case. It's good to predict, it goes further from the Health Protection Act, so it's predicted that at the request of a patient he can get that information in writing, but I'm afraid it won't always be, that patients won't be well informed about his right and will not, in many cases, take advantage of his right to written information. Therefore, it would be better if the obligation to provide information was given in writing. I do not want to say that this in its nature will lead to some abuses, apriors we all count on our healthcare professionals to act in accordance with high moral principles. I really want to believe that. On the other hand, in today's conditions of major incorporated medicine, commercialisation of medicine and the increasing impact of pharmaceutical houses, of course on medical procedures and therapeutic procedures, we have the fundamental right to suspect that some abuses and manipulations in this area are possible, so that we have largely decentralised the granting of medical research approval, given that every health institution except for the private one, on the basis of the decision of our ethics board, makes a decision on the implementation of medical research. In that context, I think it would be better if the obligation had been envisaged, I stress once again, that the research information was delivered in writing. In the end, I'd like to say something about the very protection of these rights. This is the most confusing part of the law. We believe that the way this right itself is intended will not allow effective protection. It is certainly justified to criticise that the current solution to the position of the patient’s rights protector was bad in that the patient’s rights protector did not have an independent position in relation to the director of the health care institution. We agree with the ministry's opinion that it should have changed in some way. This current solution transfers responsibility to local self-government units in two ways. First of all, how will adequate personnel be found for these positions? We even heard information that it would be possible to be some existing officials from the municipality, or city. This then leads us to a very well-founded doubt whether such an existing vessel will have adequate knowledge, knowledge of health regulations, because if it deals with other issues such as property-law, how will it acquire knowledge from the field of health protection regulations? The question is also raised – will this perhaps be possible for some new party employment in large numbers, at the unit level of each local self-government? This would be a very bad solution and would significantly prevent the exercise of these rights. Thirdly, in this way, by transferring responsibility to the local level, the Ministry of Health is deprived of the obligation to provide budgetaryly for the achievement of these rights, obliging local self-government to provide for a health care adviser's budgets. All this leads us to conclude that, above all, the protection of these rights will be significantly delayed until conditions are obtained in all local self-governments to ensure that this protection is ensured, that the budgetary protection will be inadequate and that standards, i.e. the very practice of achieving this protection, will be fully uneven at the level of the Republic of Serbia. I want to point out another problem. It is that by transferring patients' rights advisers to the local level, we bring to a very uneven position those local communities that have a high concentration of health institutions in their territory, such as the Sava Venac municipality, or some other large urban centres, where there are a large number of health institutions. The question arises how will one or two patient rights advisers be able to effectively carry out that protection in such a highly urbanized area, with a large number of health homes, hospitals, etc.? All in all, we also want to commend the legislator's intention, we want to point out that this law has very big ambitions, that it introduces significant newspapers and that we support it, but that we are very skeptical that this law will have an effective application. It is our expectation that, in the very near future, this law will have to be changed in this sense, in order to ensure a mechanism of much more effective protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15680	Thank you. The word is by MP Dragana Djukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, as we have already met, and also in reason, the law on the protection of persons with mental disorders exists only in 20 countries of Europe. As a member of the 21st century. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says all are equal before the Constitution and the law, it is time for Serbia to be 21 countries that will adopt this law and in which it will start to apply. The application of this law refers to existing psychiatric hospitals and health homes, and insufficient attention is paid to supporting local communities, where it is necessary where treatment is possible to deintituate and create conditions for the social inclusion of those persons. I don't see why in the homes of health in local self-government when brought to them by a person with mental disorders they wouldn't try to start treatment, instead of necessarily having to take instructions to the nearest specialised facility? We've heard this before when you explained the bill, and that's what's meant. That's what I think is good, and I think it should be done that way with people with mental disorders. Second of all, what about the rights and mental problems of the social security institutions, since this law includes treatment in health institutions? When it comes to a person who suffers from a physical illness, she actually carries responsibility and affects her own life when she refuses treatment. However, a person with mental disorders often does not know the world around him if these mental disorders have progressed far and in fact, it is not the best solution to even let that person decide whether to refuse treatment or accept it. Permanent support outside social protection institutions is still an alternative form in Serbia, but the experience of an existing self-inhabitation service shows in fact that this practice contributes to self-reliance and greater equality. Since 2008, the process of deinstitutionalisation has been launched in Novi Sad with the project "Life With Support", so four people with intellectual difficulties have been inhabited into two home communities. They lived with support and proved to be good practice during a certain period. Article 4 of the proposed law in paragraph 2 states that discrimination based on mental disturbances is prohibited. Of course it is, but practice doesn't show it's exactly like that. I'm going to give you just one example, one institution and the situation I've been attending, since I come from a community that also has a local home of health, or a local infirmary, where a person with mental disorders, who tried to get in through order or whatever, doesn't matter now. Anyway, I attended a situation where doctors and nurses then treated this person literally as if it wasn't a human being and only because it's a small environment, everyone knows who it is, what it is, what it's like. It's just that the environment treats him that way, so he doesn't have to go out there because he's a person with mental disorders. What has also introduced certain controversy among those who have carefully read this law is that in the treatment of people with mental disorders there is still the present treatment of so-called. electroshocks. And that's what you explained today. Of course, the conditions under which this type of treatment is performed are stated. It is stated that in cases where it is in the best interest of their health, and if all other methods of treatment have been previously taken and if a person with mental disorders consents to such treatment. Furthermore, what is the question, first, is it necessary in the modern psychiatry of the 21st century for them to be treated that way? That's what I wanted to post before you gave the explanation. I guess there's a way, I wouldn't get involved in it, given that it's the last kind of treatment, or if the previous methods don't work out. If I'm right, and you'll correct me if I don't understand correctly. Article 56 of this proposed law says that the use of psychosurgery and sterilization in the treatment of persons with mental disorders is prohibited. So electroshocks are really the last method used in treatment. In Article 61 and Article 62, it is regulated how doctors and institutions who violate the rights of persons with mental disorders will be punished, but in my view it should be borne in mind that such persons may not often be able to tell whether they have been violated human rights, let alone who they should be complaining about. It should be noted that the law passed a public debate conducted in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Nis, so in major cities, where interested people had the opportunity to get acquainted with the draft law and possibly propose some ideas for its promotion. My opinion is that it may have been necessary to conduct a public debate in a smaller environment, for a practical reason, because I think that in smaller environments, attitudes and opinions towards people with mental disorders are different from the larger environments and how they differ. These are a few dilemmas, in fact, not questions, are more dilemmas, which I have encountered in reading this law and in understanding it. In particular, I believe that this bill is good, and given that you are engaged in this area, I hope that you will make sure that what starts sooner and applies, to establish a higher quality of protection of mental health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15682	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15683	I would like first of all to really thank the MPs who are participating in this part of today's debate, for not only good preparation and comprehensive consideration and preparation for participation in the discussion, but also for the well-meaning which is obviously in the atmosphere here and which is encouraging for all of us to do the maximum possible. I'd like to answer a few questions. First of the questions I would like to answer, that is – why have we regulated these sensitive rights when it comes to the protection of persons with mental disorders only in the institutions of the health system? The basic topics and content of the law that includes our debate today and actually the content of the law are two segments, forced hospitalization and physical fixation, i.e. isolation. These are two measures that absolutely cannot be implemented in social protection institutions. It's such a violation of human rights if they're conducted there. If we had regulated them there, we would have contributed to human rights violations ourselves. If they already have to be applied, then they must be in a place where professional teams can very limitedly deprive a person of the most elemental right – the right to free choice where they will be found. That's the basic reason. The second observation that we may not have given enough attention to smaller environments, I couldn't accept it because we had located physically when we had public debates in four major cities, but we were very interested in having all our subjects, representatives of the institutions, and to my great pleasure, that's what happened. There is almost no environment, especially those dealing with mental health problems, that there were neither representatives of an institution nor individuals who were interested and actively involved. It was physically impossible to locate a set in a smaller environment and it was technically feasible that it was happening at these locations which several MPs wanted to indicate that the law-making procedure, i.e. the bill's proposal, was correct and said what the locations were. The right to privacy is indeed a very sensitive right, and we think that everything heard on committees and today in the debate requires one of our amendments, namely the acceptance of amendments that we are about to consider, but we seem that they will significantly improve the law. I think that this Parliament has already made an outstanding contribution through the Committee's work to correct the bill. At this stage I'd have so much, and then we'd still have dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15684	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15685	Ladies and gentlemen, the two laws that are in the joint principle of search: the bill on patients' rights and the proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders are essentially human rights laws. That's why they're unusually important. Human rights, when applied and once written in the Constitution and other laws, human rights apply to you give you a definition of the health of society. The more controlled natural human rights, routinely applied without resistance, without knowing how to apply some written human right, how to protect a human right written in any document, the greater the degree of application of these human rights, we are as a healthy society, because we live better. The Law on Patients' Rights, I will try to share with you how important it is to me through women's health, through a woman like us sitting in this National Assembly. Her name is Maria Maric. That's what we're all talking about in the old days. What's good for her in the provisions of the patients' rights law? How can she find out what's good for her? How can we exercise the rights that we talk about be well defined? Who's in charge of protecting her rights if she was accidentally denied? What good does Maria Maric have from the provisions of the Patients' Rights Act? More or less through the debate, we agreed that what should be the power of a healthcare professional is such that it comes from knowledge and expertise, because knowledge is power, that we limit this power to the form of conduct, that a doctor, a doctor, a health care associate, is obliged to apply the provisions of this law by creating a relationship of respect, respect, a partnership relationship with Maria Maric with whatever difficulties she has come to the health center. She needs to be given full information about her condition, to have a full advisory role and to give her a clear indication of how important it is for this doctor, doctor, health care professional, which is why Maria Maric is at the health center, her health condition, whatever it is, whether she came because of acute problems, whether she came here preventively, whether she came for advice. Whatever area it is, Maria Maric is someone we're having a debate here, that she has all the information on. We expect, perhaps it is prejudiced that health care professionals will take things themselves and read the provisions of the law and see what it is that we MPs commit, making a commitment to doctors, doctors, healthcare professionals from the moment we start to control the application of this law. I know it's the easiest, and that's what we've had a chance to hear here, talk about how bad the health situation is and to list examples of unquality, unworthy, not to speak with criminal aspects of the treatment of doctors, doctors and health care professionals. We're passing a law for the future. We are passing the law to change the state that Maria Maric may have with some doctor who looked at her with humiliation, who discriminated against her because she might have misclearly addressed the doctor, and he decided from the position of power that she had no business with her. The human rights of the patient are at stake and it is an obligation to apply such defined human rights standards to all who work in health care. Who can Mary Maric contact if she feels or suspects her rights have been denied? It's the same information he has to get from us. That's not foggy. It's 11 o'clock a.m. on Monday morning, when someone at the health center from Djala and Subotica to Krina Feia and Bujanovac denied her human rights. She needs to know that if she came to prevent her from being employed at a health center to give her information, to give her prevention or to know that somewhere in her community there is someone who is also paid from the budget, who is obliged to provide her rights. Every law that comes into this Assembly, every bill I try to analyze, to see how it applies to a living being in our country, whatever the sector, is the Constitution, so we're all a family law as a small constitution, so it applies to everything or in this case it's potential for all because we can all be patients, as my colleague Natasa Vuckovic has noted, and to explain that we're not only here to control the application of the law, but to send a clear message about how we're going to assess the health of society, not in terms of medical findings, from a human point of view. We achieve society's health if we clearly explain what we write in the Constitution and the laws to everyone to whom the law applies, and then more clearly we control whether it applies. There is no simpler definition of the rule of law that as it is written must be clear, cannot be interpreted. Just because I believe that what I'm saying is that we don't have a dispute because we're in favour of the rule of law, we're in favour of the rule of law, and we're in favour of our job to explain to Marija Maric that the quality of her life is going to change for the better because someone is thinking about it in the ministry, because we are going through the analysis here and we are considering the impact analysis of every member of the law. That's why I'm interested in the answer from the health minister regarding my obligation to explain to everyone I'm talking to in this application law, if it's adopted in this form or fortunately with the amendments that have been filed, and the first one is the counselor. That advisor should help Maria Maric. What kind of knowledge does he have? What is the sector of medical law, and which I guarantee Maria Maric that a person who works in the local self-government will either be delegated somewhere to have knowledge that can help her? Is there any guarantee that with the rulebook, I will speak harshly but I think the minister will understand me, by license, however, to ensure that there is anyone to control, that whoever is in charge has legal knowledge because he has to possess it, that he will possess these special knowledge of medical law in order to help one of the women who would address him. The second question may concern a few of the provisions of the law itself, but I'm interested, since, like all of us, I want to see that our law has done some good to someone, about techniques that a counselor manages to apply, address a patient or himself, how does he manage to protect the law, how does he fight? I know it's one of the techniques, I think it's the best, it's mediation. Is there any way for the Ministry of Health to take care of, to open up a specific sector, to help us, too, if we need some kind of public hearing on how to get media counsellings to realize that once a denied, damaged rights are returned to patients? Speaking of patients' rights and repeating that human rights are what measures the health of a society in human terms, in a legal sense, is in a safe sense. The law on patients' rights is not enough... To ask the Minister and all of us, knowing in advance that it is not a provision of this law, to discuss seriously again the introduction of health education and education in schools. I will comment briefly because for me, it is not a controversial member who defines that a 15-year-old is entitled to both advice and decisions, but in order for you to have a 15-year-old child to have some basic knowledge of health and to make a general benefit, it takes a very small effort to co-operate two or three ministries to introduce health education and education through our decision. I'm sure there's the slightest problem with the staff, and I'm sure there's an amazing number of people amongst the health workers who, first of all, are applying these provisions of the patients' rights law, who are ethical and who really take it seriously when they take ethical oaths about their amazing work. I know they turn it into moral behavior in their business. We wouldn't have had so many good results in medicine if that wasn't the case. This is my reason to believe that in health education and education, the instituted decision of the ministries and the initiative of this ministry would even participate voluntarily. If not voluntarily, we are here to help and start a good process that may not give results in a year or two, but in five or seven, we will have a changed atmosphere of the topic in schools that talk about health education and education. You will advise the child as long as it is healthy and right and its age is consistent with the basic knowledge, up to when it comes to the development period to warn him and to provide him with information concerning illness and adult life as healthy individuals in society. I'm saying, I don't expect the Minister to agree in any way, nor does she say that it is possible for the Ministry of Health to influence the introduction of health education and education into schools, but I guarantee you that in us, in the MPs, no matter what party you are in, you have allies in it. Why am I tying all this to the Patients' Rights Act? Because it's our job to give Maria Maric, the information I'm talking about, because I'm obliged to provide that information to another woman who asks me what to do with her 12-year-old child who is a drug addict, is challenged by some society, she knows nothing about it, because we're obliged to explain what's going on in this room, so people clearly understand the consequences of the laws we bring to their lives. They're all laws. When human rights laws are at stake, it's particularly sensitive. I will comment briefly on the Law on the protection of the rights of persons with metal interference, agreeing with the remarks authorised by the representative of the parliamentary group DS Ljiljana Lučić in the introduction. We'd like to see the system law. I understand that this is an interstep or perhaps a solution that the ministry thinks is possible to apply, but it's just a sensitive area of human rights. Knowing what kind of stigma a person is going through, whether she's aware of it or not, but especially the family, knowing about the stories of a person with mental disorders, because our hateful local community has the view that it's a shame, and not that it's a matter of healing, the level of prejudice we have in people who have mental disorders I know that she can't be broken by a law with six members, or by a system, but we can at least try to fix this law and make a commitment together, to try to create an atmosphere because, I repeat, the application of human rights determines how much health is in society, how healthy society is. Just to share with people the awareness that having mental disorders is the same disease as having a temperature of 40 degrees or pneumonia or a cut that a surgeon should do. It's a long way ahead of us, probably until we really understand how good we can be if we change ourselves, when it comes to our knowledge of the obligations of doctors, when we're patients, when it comes to our power in knowledge and expertise, when we're doctors, and especially when it comes to being members of a community where there's a person with mental disorders. Applying human rights raises everyone's quality of life. With the hope that we will hear the answer to the question of medical law and ways of control - is there a possibility of mediation technique? I'd like at least a comment of support, if nothing else, for the introduction of health education and education schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15686	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15687	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice President, these specific questions, which also contain the key words of the law itself, the very text of the law, which are mediation, education, medical law, cannot be answered immediately. Of course, the point is that a counselor has to and should distinguish himself from those who do health inspection work, from those who initiate criminal and criminal charges because of the fact that there are elements for it and therefore, of course, it is best that the function of a counselor be primarily a mediator. He can't do that, because there are few who are informed from the medical law sphere. Extraordinary law school students, when they get to the so-called. general or legal services of health institutions, few know about the law and sublaws that regulate this complex problem. This is why it is really important and the ministry will pay great attention to the spirit of mediation that a counselor should have. In order for that spirit to be realized, he must be well educated. He will be educated by all those who are simply, already making one plan, because we assume that the law, already now we feel, will still be adopted in the voting day and within very short deadlines, and in six months to apply it, we need to adopt a sublegal act that will specify how we will achieve the spirit of mediation, the spirit of good information to the patient. There is also a possible explanation – why do we think that someone who has five years of working experience as a lawyer and who has already met where he works, in a unit of local self-government, and works at the home of all citizens of his local environment, will quickly enter into the process of education and faster mastering the very essence, that the patient should know what his rights and obligations are under this law, that he should know what some terms mean, we speak mainly in Latin terms, that he should know what it means and the dignity and honor that has been brought under question when we said that the patient should, in accordance with the age of life, the degree of education and social status, to show these qualities and dignity and honor in relation to the therapist, to professional teams, and it is understood that this, above all, must have as an integral part and professional communication. We're going to, we built a pilot program, we're already on it. In the ten middles, we tried to see how that worked out for us. It seems to me that we must take this step, because without good education, indeed all those who are skeptics are right and there is the possibility of being compromised, otherwise an extremely good idea, that the counselor teaches all of us who are our rights. The ministry will have to take an account before you of the application of this law, because it only commits itself to organise education as soon as possible. Will she be equally successful everywhere? He won't. Will good examples and those who are completely opposite be models for us to change something in the education program itself? It will. That's what our intention is. When it comes to a 15-year-old child and a very correct thinking about that it's good to have in the education system up to 15 years old, but its degree of information about what it is and the patient needs to know. This good observation is probably also stimulating for all MPs and all of us, that several ministries through certain programmes are working more on medical education than preschool education, from kindergarten to 15 years. But lifelong education is also extremely important. In our system, we have very important institutions that should inform the general population. These are public health institutions. If we really were to bring the elements of what we are all talking about here into these two segments, into the school and preschool systems on the one hand and in the programmes of lifelong education through public health institutions, we would really cover Serbia and then this law would be something that would really mean improving health. I really thank you in this way of thinking, because this is the spirit of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15688	Dear People's MPs, I believe we'll finish the principle debate by 6:00 p.m. However, unless we do so, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, and until the joint principled search is completed, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. Now in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, My rules of procedure set a regular break of one hour and continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15689	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15690	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, respected honourable MPs, presently there are two new laws in the field of health that deserve our attention, not only in the way they regulate this area, but in the first place - the Law on the Rights of Patients, because the first one as a whole is governed by the rights of patients of health care services, and the second one by the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbs, because once again, for the first time in one place, a special law is regulated by the way, procedure, organisation and conditions of treatment of persons with mental disorders. It's of particular importance here, at least that's what it seems to me, that these diseases and those with mental disorders are approached without the stigmatization and especially the involvement of local communities, local environments, families and wider service. In the process of passing these draft laws, I would highlight several important things, which is one expressed responsibility of the Ministry and the current Minister's current team to see the need for special legislation to regulate patients' rights, to write them, to convert them to norm and to all of us, the authorities of the state administration, to the Assembly, or the Ministry, medical chambers, the Health Fund, medical institutions, professional and health workers and associates, to local self-government, citizens' associations, etc., in general, to task all of us citizens with the health care system and its policy being developed through the partner relationship of doctors and patients and that both of these entities have their rights and their responsibilities. I believe that this is very important from the point of view of the profession, ethics, responsibilities, and it is also important from the point of view of the development of democratic society and the responsibility of all of us in this society for what we live in today and what society we have. Under the circumstances of these two laws, as we heard in the presentation of Ms. Minister Prof. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, which I would like to draw attention to especially this time, is a broad public debate involving 330 entities, over 40 institutions and over 1000 participants. It was a quote. In this bill, 12 old rights that are contained in different other laws that regulate both health care issues remain, it noted. So the rights that are already recognizable with us, which are legal, which existed, the rights that we're used to. Seven new rights have also been introduced, which I believe should have special determination, so we essentially get laws with much greater patient rights. I also want to point out that it is known that the public debate over these two laws has been continuously followed by the OSCE. They participated in the public debate and in the final meeting or final session held at the end of last year. As I recall, the representative of this organisation, then present, Mrs Poli Tidi, at the final meeting at the end of last year, pointed out that the draft of these laws reached and opened a new chapter in the field of health care, in the area of the protection of patients' rights and that conditions for efficiency and openness for co-operation were met and that around 50 members of one and 68 members of the second law were incorporated here. Since I was also directly involved in this final session and this conversation and was present at the time, this is a quote, that is, a sentence that the OSCE representative then said. When it comes to these laws, I want to point out the importance of this public debate from the point of view of the need to hear the profession, to hear associations of citizens, NGOs and so on, which, in practice, we have forgotten, rejected, I suppose, as an excess, overcome, with a populist approach, in any case and historically rejected. Instead, in the last decade we've been eyewitnesses and we've been enslaved by other people's models that have been difficult and sometimes pointless or violently resorting to our heads, we've introduced some criteria and laws without order into our system, so now you don't need to be surprised by the mass of laws that have been passed between them or are even completely opposite and inapplicable and unsustainable from that point of view. These laws have been passed in this assembly, and I have not seen so much concern by the MPs that at the time of their adoption, exactly something that is being provided in the adoption of these two laws, especially in the debate that is present yesterday, is being potentiated here. Of course, I don't mind the potential and insistence that the law be clear, precise and applicable, but I think we should have that approach and principle when we talk about all the laws. Also, I want to express my confidence now that this will happen in the coming period. It is also an absolutely widespread phenomenon to adopt laws that are delayed for one year, two or more, and laws for whose applicability, i.e. arrangements must be adopted by a series of sublegal acts that are either forgotten, not passed or passed very late. As a result, we have the fact that laws are often not adequately applicable from that point of view. In this case, in our lives there are still laws from the time of the SFRY, which have not been changed in the meantime. I'd like this opportunity to draw attention to them. Many of them are good, and some are even better than these new ones, because they are more comprehensive and perhaps better to edit a profession, offer rules, but also seek responsibility. However, they needed to change at least the title or preamble, i.e. to remove parts that have been overcome, because in 30 or more years life has gone a long way and waist too. That is why it is important in this case to praise these laws, the methods of working in this case of the Minister and the Minister's team, to study them completely with the intention of changing ourselves, or improving ourselves, because that is how we will improve society and the state. So we have our own responsibility for it. Nobody's gonna do it but us. These laws that we are considering today are not newspapers, because many good rules and practices have been present on the basis of the signed many European and world conventions and declarations, which we have already been part of the world's, or European good practice. Our health care, or our health professionals, are otherwise evaluated in Europe by high grades. So, the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights for the first time says in one place what are the rights that we all have as patients, but also what are our responsibilities. In this law we meet with the right and responsibility for our own health, for taking preventive checks and controls. These preventive checks and controls were also neglected in one period, but they are significant from the point of view of just reducing costs, from the point of view of health efficiency, but also, most importantly, from the point of view of protecting patients' health, for which there is equal responsibility and health system, but also from each of us individuals who must first of all have a proper health culture. It is also important in this part to point out that there is access to healthcare, the right to another expert opinion, the right to leave a health care institution, the right of children to be treated more humanely and the presence of parents in a medical institution, the right to relief of suffering and pain, to respect us as a person and our time, but at the same time also the personality of doctors and medical staff, precisely in this partner and mutual relationship. In particular, I would not talk about all these rights, because they are already quite spoken of in the previous debate, I am simply underlining them here, because I believe that these rights are significant and precisely by drawing public attention to what is new about these laws draws attention to all of us that we have to put ourselves in this active relationship throughout this process. The question and the rights of each patient to object is raised. Where does he make that complaint? In the health institution itself, as it has been in practice so far, but in this case also according to the current model in the local community which is also the founder of that health institution. So, a special team is formed, meaning primarily a professional person, who is a consultant or protector of patients' rights, i.e. a health advice that I consider to be a representative wider body that can bring together responsible, elected committees of local self-government, experts, representatives of the fund, which is precisely supposed to be positive, should lead a positive policy, that health centres in that local community should function well, function organised, be better, show basic expertise, knowledge and mutually high quality and efficiency. What's particularly important here and new? Emphasis is that it is the duty of the patient to be responsible for himself, to be responsible for others, to be responsible for both healthcare professionals and associates and all those people who work in health institutions and provide certain services. Relations to develop with respect and respect, as they do, in relation to all institutions, the ministry also develops. Many fear, as we heard in this debate yesterday and today, that the law is a dead letter on paper, that it is non-sinchron with our abandoned system, it is a quote, and very impoverished as it is estimated today, and that that is why they say that this law is wrong. Health care is getting poorer, we're getting sicker, there's a lot of administration, there's a lot of waiting, there's phenomena and corruption. It is not, however, the only medical disease, or it is not just a health system in such a way that is in danger, this is obvious to us, this is more disturbing to us, for that very reason, because it is the health of citizens, which we are all sensitive to. But in other places of the corruption problem, ineffectiveness problems in every segment of the social system, we meet today, and unfortunately, we have to figure it out. It is also present when it comes to getting jobs and opportunities for employment, for schooling, for trial, for the right to work, etc. Therefore, I would not agree with that assessment that our health care is completely collapsed with an outdated network of infrastructure and bad personnel. I would say that here, despite all the problems that health care has had, and the neglects that he's been exposed to in previous years, and open even politicizing, that health care has been preserved, that a huge number of good doctors and experts in it have still survived and that when they retire, that's one warning thing for us, they won't have anyone to replace, despite the huge number of young doctors who are jobless and waiting for their opportunity here in the country, or unfortunately, forced to go abroad. We have rejected the good things of the previous system in the previous time, without adopting new ones, or we have adopted them in a song, according to the model of the wild liberal capitalism that he has seized for himself, which for the people has developed a demagogue story, I quote – when only this, and this, and we end this, then better days come for us, and those better days that are without work and effort and self-responsibility. When the promises came out, we saw and saw reality with broken systems, sold factories, fired workers, disbursed, those who are doing more and more for less and more wages, as if all these years we've been developing a model or ideal for almost free work. I hope that this has come to an end, that every piece of work must know that it has its own price, so that in future time and medical work, the work of medical professionals must also have its own price, because it seems to me, that at that time we will be much more esteemed and respected by healthcare professionals and doctors and professionals who work there. It seems to me that so many things have come to an absurdity from this previous period, so I think that the sooner we have to start being responsible for what we create, for what we have and what we live in. That is why this law is important, right now, to place in life the responsible individuals and families and the local community and health care institution, all from the primary health care where I particularly like the idea that the Minister, Mrs Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, has since the first day of her term in office in this Parliament and has persistently defended them with all the laws that come to us, that health homes must primarily be institutions in the local environment that will be particularly respected, where people at the primary level of healthcare will be able to get their first care, help and professional guidance for their further treatment. We are thus developing a culture that the home of health in the immediate vicinity should be visited, in which we should go and seek in essence and preventive examinations to protect our health. So from that we are developing a local community that is also responsible for the state of the population in its local environment. It also interrupts another level of behavior, which is that only the state is responsible for giving us, and we are passively waiting for its solutions, or not to implement them or criticise them. It is true that this is only part of the way and we are now asking a question in front of health, what we are interested in, what is announced, and what I hope will show my true effective role and give solutions to many and questions raised here, and that is – what is our plan of the network, the plan of the staff, the plan of the necessary resources, the plan of the necessary priorities and degrees and levels of health care that are developing according to the needs of the population? Here what is important about the bill on the protection of patients' rights which I do not think is particularly highlighted so far in the debate is that it is an incorporated private practice and what is important that equal rights are also given to foreigners within our healthcare system. Of course, it's known in a proper way. So when we look at what new solutions this law has offered, we see that there is a development of access to health, expertise, responsibility, ethics, but the same requirements are towards ourselves, or doctors. When it comes to the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders, as has been said so far, this law has for the first time in a comprehensive way in one place regulated the methods of treating patients with mental disorders. This achieves a higher level of quality of protection of mental health and the application of modern methods and new modern medical knowledge. Promotion of availability, equality and especially, as already pointed out, bestigmatisation. The number of people with mental disorders in our society and in the world is unfortunately not small. The disorder is different, heterogeneous. Sometimes in a family or local environment they do not recognize or remain silent, but it is important that the availability of a psychiatrist be made available either through health homes or other responsible services in the local community. This is important to us, especially from the point of view of health in our society, because over the past years as citizens, we have been threatened in a wide variety of ways and I have to say hurtful, whether it was bombing or war traumas, social problems, loss of work, feelings of insecurity, the emergence or development of spread with social problems and severe phenomena of alcoholism, drug development, especially in the young generation, which in the most pervasive way affects the young organism, with the emergence of new diseases, whether they are young or with the occurrence of the disease of the old part of the population, especially considering that we are a growing nation. Accordingly, I think that a new idea must be developed on what direction public health protection must be and must be developed precisely in order to ensure the protection of children and young people in an appropriate way, by developing their perspective and by protecting health, by creating social security, which is, of course, the task of other parts of our society and other ministries, but, at the same time, the development of those methods of health care of an ever older population. The consequences of these conditions are great and it is good for the ministry to meet problems, to develop awareness of the need for protection, to ensure availability, quality. For the treatment of these diseases, it is important to protect general human rights, the right to use material, sexual, coercion, demeaning, etc. The scientific knowledge and understanding of mental disorders has advanced, and it has to apply new diagnostic methods. So, in any case, my opinion is that putting forward with such two comprehensive concepts of law we come up with new solutions, that it goes into meeting the resolution of many phenomena and problems that exist in health, that it is a brave move and that in any case it is an example for other areas to take, above all rights to work, which is our basic right, so it should be met, and in any case I want to point out that the SPS in the voting day will support both of these laws. I'm sorry to extend your time, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15691	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15692	The President-in-Office, distinguished Madam Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the DS has not managed the health portfolio since Serbia's first multi-party elections, so many MPs and MPs have talked about health problems, and the DS cannot be identified. What is important is that the question is finally answered – who is responsible for this state of health? First, I will refer briefly to the Bill on Patients' Rights, more specifically to the right of access to healthcare, Article 6(2), which says – in the process of achieving healthcare, the patient has the right to equal access to healthcare services without discrimination in relation to financial opportunities, place of residence, I repeat – place of residence, type of illness and time of access to healthcare. Many months ago I asked a parliamentary question, and it's about the municipality where I come from, the municipality of Kučevo, where patients confirm the instructions in Petrovac on Mlava? I do not doubt the expertise of the commission, there competent, in Petrovac at Mlava, but it is simply inappropriate for patients from my municipality to go and confirm instructions in addition to the good work of the home of health and very high-quality doctors who are in my place and I ask you to engage in at least that commission to return to my place. What is contentious to me is a member of the 42nd Law, which sets out a health advice in local self-government. A consultant who would work on these jobs would certainly be dependent on some president of the municipality or the ruling coalition in which he is, given that everything is so in our society and I think that a more centralised body in this matter would be much more functional and could solve this issue in the right way. The second thing, the other law I'm going to deal with is the proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. There is no accurate data on the number of these faces and statistics indicate that there are about 3% of them in the population. The number of these faces is significantly higher and is constantly increasing. What's not covered by this law, and I think it's very important, one problem that's a little bit hidden, a little bit of an institution and they've been dealing with it, is post-supervised syndrome or so on. "Vietnam syndrome." According to estimates of experts with VMA in Belgrade, around 400,000 were participants of Serbia's war in the former Yugoslavia. Nearly 35,000 of these people are estimated to be victims of post-traumatic stress disorder. This population has a terrible sense of guilt because of what they've been doing on the battlefield, and that they feel rejected, manipulated, and they experience their peacetime environment alienated. This bill, unfortunately, although it was good will to do one thing like this, is not reformable because its application excludes a large number of people. The law treats, in my opinion, only persons who are located in health institutions, and excludes persons who are not present. The law relies on the existing institutions of the system – asylum institutions which are a poor solution in the treatment of such persons. The good will of the Ministry of Health is a matter of emergency hospitalization and application of fixation and isolation. A good solution is strengthening the role of the court and simplifying the accommodation process, strengthening the powers of psychiatrists. It's a bad solution for me, which so far required the opinion of two expert psychiatrists, and now only one opinion is needed. An example of good practice is a mental health centre in the community of Nis, where such individuals are located in a natural environment. Another good example is the co-operation of the government of the AP Vojvodina with the psychiatric services of the Italian city of Trento, with the aim of deinstitutionalising and transforming psychiatric institutions in Vojvodina. The House of Health in India has been involved in this project. The goal of this project is that the life of a person with mental disorders does not take place in four walls. After all, suggestions by the Protectors in this topic should be respected. So the draft law deals, in my opinion, with purely medical aspects and has been neglected or less treated aspects of human rights protection. To remove these objections, it is necessary to hire other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. Since mental health centres would also take over health homes, I do not think adequate protection of mentally ill persons would occur, especially severe chronic and psychiatric patients. The obstacle is that according to current norms 30 to 40,000 inhabitants, the work of a health home in the field of psychiatry is organized. It's a big problem for municipalities with fewer inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15693	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15694	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, there are two laws that I would like to say in the introduction at all that in an irresistible way remind me of the times that have long since been behind us, when democracy was being realized and when we were able to see this course of change in democracy, which in 2000 taught us what should not be done in the hall and how to behave on the street, some basic elements of order and order. Then they taught us other things, they opened workshops that we knew were meant for the workshops to be technically educated, and then they began to get this kind of or that kind of guidance, that they would be educated. Today on tours these children are killed because teachers cannot preserve them and provide them precisely because of the amount of rights they have won in this continuous struggle to gain more rights, to respect the rights of someone who is underage, not mature and critical to decide. Why am I talking about this? It would be very serious what I'm talking about, if you'd even compare those events to what I'm supposed to represent as a doctor when it comes to the Law on the Protection of Patients, because we already have legal standards that are more different, so-called. "top law", which included these rights and, at the same time, I think it might have been more logical to make changes to those laws, and they would have led to a fundamental improvement for the citizens of Serbia, who, perhaps here, in the form of patients, if they were to be surveyed, most of them would have remembered that most of these rights could come true, and that their fundamental problem was not that. To them it's how to get to order and how whoever takes them not to blackmail them, doesn't ask for money, doesn't ask for a favor, doesn't ask for bribes, something that doesn't really exist in these rights, that basic. There could have been one sentence somewhere out of these twenty rights - a patient's rights don't need to know either... or the patient should not be asked for money, bribery, corruption, although in the Criminal Code there are specifics of that kind. Why am I still talking about this? Both of these laws could have been in one if we were already going towards this democratic development of the right to the smallest detail. If we keep it that way, I'm afraid one day we'll have a law on, say, how to use public transport. Nothing would surprise me. If we go so much into the details, we're going to open up new weak spots, new ambiguities and new possibilities that those patients who are once, unfortunately, that profession, are looking for weak points in that or those who teach it, there are also why not to be aware, so that even in such a strictly designed law, they find the weak points and start a process that I don't see exactly what the final outcome is going to be. When we talk about a counselor, by some point, the counselor wonders. When the party is not satisfied with what the adviser will do or does not receive the appropriate response, there is no time limit in which the Council will respond in the manner in which the patient will satisfy or not satisfy it. Finally, why must the patient always be right? It remains, of course, in the last position of that member that the minister will work on the act, closer to the instructions that many deadlines will be defined. So, one unfortunate remark about that fact. I'd like to, by analyzing the members individually, say, those places that might be hypothetical in this law. I'm not saying, of course, that by discussing us in the SNS, against that law, and even against the chances of the patient being better, if this is some chance of something being better than the objections that we all have here today, and what we've known months and years ago, then that's great news, but I don't think it is. Whether everyone will have the same right to quality protection regardless of the place of residence and the rest, the question is. There will always be few more privileged patients treated in larger cities and larger clinical centres. There are ways, legally regulated, that someone can seek help, but often this assistance is at a higher institutional level, related to some previous events and coming to a small door to a respected doctor who can operate. And the question is, why did we cultivate a cult the size of certain doctors, why didn't we have more specialists, and not one "personal non grat" that she noticed in her professional development, the staging of other younger doctors? We have to have 10, 15, 20 competent doctors who can work very effectively in the same area. There are a lot of crowds with respected doctors, i.e. capable, professional, who very quickly from certain diseases that suffer, know who is best able to do it. There's a real real realization. Technically, that man works 24 hours or two or three. This cannot be achieved, especially in the sphere of mass diseases, such as malignant diseases, cardiosurgery, etc. So on that plan, I think the Ministry should do something to increase the number of specializations. We just need to relieve people in the service and give them a chance to go on an adventure, get them first, so they can get involved in the profession. How do you say something about quality issues? There's a quality mentioned here in the law. We discussed it on the Committee, what it really opens up about quality. We've had quite an unquality health care. It's simple, we shouldn't define her and if she did, because all our facilities and doctors got licenses. This means that the given level of professional assistance, the specified level of the organisational continent must work according to quality standards. We know that even from clinical centres they want people to go to another, higher clinical center to heal. Those rights will hardly be realised, despite this law. They can start complaining to the counselor. It's three, five, eight days, and then the Council, and the Council doesn't have a deadline when and how to decide who to appeal to. He'll get directions, he won't be able to finish up at a higher instance. So we couldn't solve these details with this law. Maybe the roof law was able to solve it better, that the patient shouldn't suffer any damage due to the institution's failure. I couldn't agree more. I understood what that message meant. Article 11 contains a very strange syntagma – in the process of achieving health care, a child capable of judgment, regardless of the years of life, has the right to confidential counselling without parental consent when it is in the best interest of the child. I have a few questions. Where's the guy he's counseling from a bigger friend than his parents? What took 15 years of competence to ask him to be without his parents? What's he gonna talk about? What kind of advice does he hear that he won't tell his parents that he was at the doctor's, and what did the doctor tell him? Who actually appreciates that it's a special child's interest? Is that where the responsibility melts if you e-mail your friend – I was and the doctor told me it's "and" what I'm doing, and tomorrow something wrong happens? It is simply necessary to take into account the suggestion around that limit when letting a child make decisions on his own. After all, they are immature children – 15 years old. You see for yourself what happens in much less benign things like student excursions, not when it comes to disease or other kinds of disorders that these children can experience in adolescence. Members of the 12th and 13th right to free choice and the right to a second expert opinion, I think they are somewhat in coalition. They may not be in the coalition at the level of primary health care. That category of free-chosen doctor, you're actually obliged to choose one, you can legally regulate it, but in some higher-ranking institution, and here it doesn't say decadently who it refers to. If five or six doctors don't agree with one, you pay for another expert opinion, because it has to be paid, and he makes it different from the treating doctor until then, in the collective there's collapsing. Where will this patient later be treated in the wake of a doctor whom he avoided by another expert opinion? Couldn't it have been a commission consular solution, that it wasn't the right to professional opinion, yes, but it was given by a consilium, for instance. I think it would make sense that even the consulate in Article 17 when someone who refuses to measure and what they should give a written statement, so a conscious person, a mobile person, can write, give a statement that he refuses to measure, does not write therapeutic or diagnostic, even if it threatens his life. If it's all right with the patient, you know best. We called you and your colleagues when the dialysis patients refuse to treat dialysis by fearing technology, methods. We've called a psychiatrist to see what it is, because those rules have been in force before. An earlier child could go to some kind of school if he went to the hospital, earlier in the tuberculosis station, a parent could go with a child to a pediatric clinic, etc. It's not something spectacular new now that wasn't. This is the example that a patient in fear, mentally altered, an uremic patient, refuses dialysis treatment, and he will die if he writes it somewhere or in front of witnesses to make a statement. Maybe you should consularly make a decision right here, not that sick person who is unconscious, who you have to help, where you febrile to bring him back to life, so that the consilium decides whether or not he is or is not the reason for his continuing or stopping treatment. About clinical research, we cleared up on the board there. I guess that sublaw will be settled, by regulation. The facility can't regulate security. This is done by the client of clinical research, sponsor of the right to insurance and the right to costs. It should also be defined at travel costs. I think that would be the simplest way to solve it. Respect for working hours is a good thing. It's mass today even in general practice. In health homes, that rule is used. If a patient in article 36 doesn't adhere to the behavior of the regulated members 32 to 35, he can leave the hospital, but I don't think he had to put 2 in the story. Why? If he already wants to leave the hospital, he insulted this or that, disrespecting the doctors, you have it, many patients on dialysis in some shows can tell doctors, it's goodbye, but never express a desire to stop treatment, but if someone does, that the facility is now providing him with a place and where? He cannot provide for him in the same institution, for he will not be treated there. So it has to be on some higher level. This can apply to general practice and can apply to some work where someone in the infirmary can change a doctor, but in stationary conditions, in surgical branches, in teamwork, it's hard for this, if someone's unhappy, to seek the right to leave the facility, and then you provide him with instructions that he has to go to another institution, at least similar or same rank. You can't send him to a lower-ranking facility. I don't understand what I'm saying about the council, which I mentioned in Article 41(6). – when is the term in which the objectors will declare to the council that he is not satisfied with the Director's decisions? After all, who will solve this matter, what is the final decision? Inspector, who's initiating the inspection procedure? Independently running the patient, either his advisor, or he's running the advice. He regularly reports to the adviser and to the Health Council, gives regular reports to the competent authorities. But the responsibility of the counselor seems to have been severed. If I understand correctly in the law, in Article 41, paragraph 6 of the Law, it is probably a rule that the court comes to the institution and that there are other opportunities for judges to hold a hearing at the institution itself, perhaps for the sake of insight into these interferences or that physical fixation of the patient. That still needs someone to pay, coming to the hospital. I don't think reading it in the first law-reading detail, I think that's what happens in court. So he comes to the hospital to see the patient there and implement the first hearing, and of course the right to call on the person who behaves in a way that is suspicious that she can be purple, and that's the employer, and he's calling both the militia and the sanity. Maybe it would be better if someone thought someone was acting strangely, and they had to be forced to be hospitalized, yet they called the doctor first, not the police, because usually the sanity, the ambulance called the police for assistance, so far it has been. Maybe it'll change the order of the store a little, because there's some superlative employers, they'll declare someone like this and stuff like that. They're going to go through with it, then they're going to call the police and the sanity to come pick him up at the work unit, some facility, or someone at the firm, and then, after assessing the doctor in the E.R. that he's not up for it, but the defacto remains a Stigmat. It's about the level of objections I've had with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15695	Thank you. National MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15696	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable government representatives, distinguished fellow MPs, we have two extremely important laws and the interest of MPs, I hope and public interest is great for this topic, given that it is a matter of human rights, and this is about the rights of patients and set up on the other hand about rights, persons with mental health problems. So it's mental health. These areas are extremely important, because it is difficult for us to argue and if someone prefers one way of resolving this issue, but the other one prefers it in another way, but what no one can argue about is how important our nation's health is and how important it is to regulate this area in certain laws. As a MP, I would say that it is my great pleasure to have in front of me a law on patients' rights, which in an extremely thorough, comprehensive manner regulated this area by introducing these new rights. In particular, what has already been done in this area in other health laws has been complemented. I think it's very good and I support the discussion in that part where very well-read questions relating to the rights of the child, as a patient on the one hand, are very important that the right and the possibility of seeking another opinion is introduced. It is also essential to have the right to preventive measures, because the very health of the nation depends on good prevention. Since we are in some areas, we have an infamous death record, and we know that by early detection of certain diseases, especially women's diseases, when it comes to cancers, we can reduce the number of deaths. What's very important is what's very important, and in this little time that's left of my parliamentary group, I'd say this is a law that's welcome in any state of health. I would say that the law would be much easier to apply if our health care was organised in a better way and that we had a richer society in which we could provide fully adequate medical services. It is extremely important that the law that treats human rights in this way, which introduces a different way, a partner relationship, or that we go to a doctor because it is necessary for us, while the doctor realizes that if we do not go to him, it is not necessary, that this partnership relationship should be a whole system of patient acceptance in a different way and that this mutual trust and this relationship is put in this area. What I would point to is one of the rights that seems to me that in our poor and poorly organized society we often cannot fully achieve, and that is where we have to take care of exactly what we're going through and what we're facing is now the stage of getting the drugs. We have the right to a free choice, the patient has the right to a free choice, and he has the right to a free choice, not only of the doctor, but of the proposed medical measures. The patient gets a certain treatment that suits him, then in the middle of therapy it is found that this medicine is no longer available, and often other medicines do not respond. I think it is extremely important to create a continuity of the supply of medicines in which a particular medical therapy has its constant, just to avoid making it difficult in the middle of the patient’s treatment period. Since we're also talking about mental health today, especially, no matter what I'm not from this profession and I'm not a medical worker, but I've had a chance to see that big problems are suffering precisely from people who are using medications that are prescribed, just for people with mental health problems. We know that this type of medication somehow binds the patient to these drugs. There are big problems when there are these kinds of ways where there are no appropriate medicines on the market. What matters is that this law helps in the field of human rights of patients and when conditions are not the best, and when our organisation is not the best, to make it practically easier for us to all be in a way more humane and evener treated in these institutions. I'd like to say a few things about this new institute, the institute that's now being pulled up at the level of local self-government on counselors. It's very important that we prepare good advisors. In one part of the presentation, Madam Minister, you mentioned that in the first year you would follow this course well, how they would fit in and how much they would be able to respond to the tasks. They're lawyers, the medical field is very wide, and it's going to take a lot of help. (President: Time. ) I apologize, but I believe that this law in order to be implemented by the end will take much more time than one year, so I think together we should, the Ministry of Oversight and practically Parliament in the control function to pay attention to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15697	Thank you. People's emissary, Vesna Jovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15698	Thank you to the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I would like to look back on in my presentation is the Law on Patients' Rights, which is in line with a number of international documents and in which special attention is given to children who have turned 15, who are able to understand the nature of their health and the purpose of the medical measure proposed. However, documents and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which speaks of the right of the Child, to express its opinion, to participate in improving the health and well-being of children, both through individual decisions on health care and through involving children in the development of health regulations and services. The Otova Declaration of the World Medical Association on the rights of the child to health care has also been respected. 39.30 The public hearing and individual amendments question the position of Article 19(4). A law governing the right of a child who has turned 15 years of age and who is able to reason on his own to grant consent to a medical measure proposed by healthcare professionals, with the prior notification provided for in Article 11 of this proposal. According to Article 11, in this case, the child has the right to receive timely notice from a healthcare professional that he needs to make a decision on consent or rejection of the measure. This notification includes: diagnosis and prognosis of the disease, description of the measure, its duration and possible consequences of taking or not taking place. The healthcare professional is required to notify that without asking. This provision has also existed in the current Health Protection Act since 2005. Starting from the comment number 12 of the Committee on the Rights of the Child at the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the state should determine the age limit of the child's ability to decide on its own consent. In this regard, the family law of the Republic of Serbia, which is the parent of this issue, found that a child who has turned 15 and who is capable of reasoning, can decide which parent she will live with, on maintaining personal relations with the parent she does not live with, who the school will attend, can take on legal matters that she manages and disposes of with her income or property, the right to change her personal name, and also to agree to take medical procedures. The law on minor offenders and the criminal-legal protection of minors gives a child 14 years of responsibility. The Labour Act states that a working relationship can be created with a person who has at least 15 years of life and fulfils other conditions for working on certain jobs established by law. The health care law laid down the age limit of 15 years and the ability to reason were conditions for the child's ability to agree independently to the proposed measure, and this solution was also taken over in the proposal for a patient's rights law. At the same time, in Article 2. The bill has been defined as a medical service provided for preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitation purposes, which has not been arranged so far. The medical measure defined by this law proposes a competent healthcare professional as a measure in the interest of patients, while the patient does not require the measure, but decides on its acceptance or refusal. This provision guarantees a minimum degree of child rights over 15 years of age to decide and participate in his health care according to his developmental abilities. The best interest of the child is put ahead of the rights when it is estimated that the child does not decide on his best interest, or in situations of child health, when it is mandatory to involve the parent. It enables confidentiality between doctors and patients in solving sensitive problems, which may have significant consequences for their health – sexual relations, sexual orientation, mental health problems, experimentation with psychoactive substances, cases of abuse and neglect, about which a child is difficult to decide to talk to his parents. They allow doctors to rely not only on adolescents, but also on parents, because they encourage adolescents to include parents in the decision-making process, which is part of good practice, unless it is contrary to the best interests of adolescents. This law increases the responsibility of healthcare professionals to propose medical measures, but also to assess the child's ability to reason. The expert methodological guidance for the implementation of the Regulation on the national programme for the health care of women, children and youngsters adopted by the Republic Health Care Commission for women, children and youth in 2010, on the basis of the 2009 Regulation on the national programme for the health care of women, children and youngsters, lists ways and instruments for both psychosocial history, physical examination, and the decision-making procedure for consent to the medical measure in a minor patient. What has greatly upset parents is the age limit from which the adolescent can decide for himself to agree to an end to pregnancy. This is a question that is not regulated by this law, but is regulated by the Law on the Interruption of Pregnancy in Health Institutions, which has been in force since 2005 and in Article 2 of this Act, says that the termination of pregnancy by a person under 16 years of age and the person with full depravity of business capacity also requires written consent of parents, or guardians. It is also important to point out that plastic surgery requires parental consent in children under 18 years of age, thus preventing decision making and conducting medical procedures that are not in the child’s real interest. What needs to be highlighted, and what this law makes, is that the child's interest is ahead of the right to decide and give the right to participate in decision-making, when it comes to personal health care, we give him the opportunity to develop into a healthy person. We also develop healthy society, in which the doctor is an ally and a child and a parent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15699	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15700	Dear Madam Minister, honourable fellow MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the National Assembly for the adoption of two laws that represent, in my opinion, a full newspaper in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The composer of both laws is the Ministry of Health. It's about a bill on patients' rights and a bill on the protection of persons with mental disorders. Both apply to patients and their rights. What's the difference between these two laws? The bill on patients' rights in the broadest sense refers to all those patients who use health services, whether it is public, whether it is private sector. However, the Law on the Rights of Persons with Mental Disorders refers to only one special group of patients, patients with mental disorders, or persons who are inadequately mentally developed, persons who have different mental health disorders and people who suffer from addiction. The bill on protection of persons with mental disorders covers only those situations where these persons use health services in psychiatric institutions, health homes, which also perform the treatment of persons with mental disorders. That is why this bill merits our special attention to the MPs. We will support the bill on patients' rights for the first time in a unique way, which is in line with many international documents, above all with the Roman Charter. We will also support it because it establishes a new, quality partnership relationship between healthcare providers, in this case healthcare professionals and recipients of health services, patients. I also believe that it will achieve one of the basic human rights in a more complete, better and quality way, which is the right to quality health care. When it comes to persons with mental disorders and the entire Corps of their rights and freedoms, including the right to protect mental health, the development of human rights and freedoms, the awareness of the rights and freedoms of these persons develops, and our sensitivity to an adequate response to their needs. Human rights defenders and freedoms are increasingly insisting on absolute respect for all human rights and freedoms of persons with mental disorders, without any restrictions or discrimination. However, we all have very fresh memories of the event in the village of Jabukovac and in the village of Velika Ivanca. At that time, we all citizens of Serbia and the media asked the same question – how can the state of Serbia stand in the way of this problem, solve the problem, and that such crimes never happen again and never again? I think this bill is a big step in that direction. There are many reasons why this law should exist, which is why we will support it. I'll give you just a few reasons. Because it is the obligation of this country, which the European Commission says in its regular reports when reporting on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in the process of adapting its rules to EU regulations and standards, because it is a guarantee that the area of protection of mental health will be regulated in a more complete way, with a fundamental aim of establishing a higher level of quality of protection of mental health, in line with modern achievements in this area and with the aim of promoting accessibility and equality, as well as protection of human rights and destigmatisation. Because it foresees and guarantees the right person with mental disorders: the right to improve mental health, the right to equal treatment, the right to privacy, the right to exercise civil and other rights, to protect and improve mental health through prevention, care, treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation in relevant health and other institutions, recovery and inclusion in the family, work and social environment, with full respect for the choice of this person. Because it guarantees that no medical measure will be carried out without the consent of a previously informed person with mental disorders. Because the bill paid particular attention to the protection of persons who are unable to give their consent to treatment, and there is no legal representative or condition for the consent of a legal representative to be obtained and consent is required to take medical care. It is predicted that such a person may undergo a medical measure without consent in cases where treatment is necessary to prevent a significant deterioration of his or her health condition or if the medical measure is directed towards the re-establishment of the decision to consent or if it is necessary to prevent a threat to the life and safety of the person or the life and safety of the other person. Because it provides guarantees that no mentally ill person will be held in a psychiatric institution for treatment against his will because there are detailed reasons for detention without consent to a psychiatric institution. The proceedings for detention without consent and accommodation without the consent of this person have been defined. The reasons for such a decision, the organisation of an emergency consular inspection of the detained person and the notification of the competent court have been established. The court's jurisdiction, as well as the urgency of the court's proceedings with the obligation to hold a hearing at a psychiatric institution, has been established. Because they place an adult person with mental disorders without his consent, i.e. children and minors with mental disorders and persons deprived of business skills without the consent of their legal counsel, the court decides. Because it is prescribed when and under what conditions the measures of physical restraint and isolation of these faces can be applied. They can only be applied exclusively when it is the only means to prevent a person with mental disorders from seriously endangering his or her own life or health and safety or the life and health and safety of other persons. That's why the SNS will support both of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15701	MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15702	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, we have two important laws before us, the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. These laws will for the first time regulate certain areas of health care, which will help solve problems and regulate relations in specific areas of health. In Serbia in recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of people with mental disorders, but unlike countries in the region who are working very hard to reform the social protection system and improve mental health, Serbia is at the very beginning of this large and complex job. The passing of this law, which the government has proposed, and whose adoption we welcome, is certainly a good step in this direction. The promoter pointed out that mental health is a national capital and one of the nation's basic resources, but our nation's mental health is not at an envious level. There has been an increase in psychoactive disorders in Serbia, an increased number of suicides, and is very concerned about the fact that about seven million tranquilizers are being taken annually. The health needs budget is only about 2% for mental health, at least in the environment, and modern medicines in Serbia come at five to 15 years late. If such statistics were still not our reality fighting for the preservation of our mental health is the task of all of us. In doing so, the ministries, social services, health institutions, as well as individuals must act in a coordinated manner, because it is a struggle for healthy society. Unfortunately, we only mention mental health when something happens. In particular, it should be pointed out that prevention in this area is very important. Most people don't seem to take their mental well-being seriously. Forms of prevention of various physical diseases have been generally accepted. But when it comes to seeking the help of experts in the field of mental hygiene, prejudice remains high, people are ashamed to ask for help. When they decide to look for her, they report late because the problem is more difficult then. The vote of this law is therefore very important because for the first time this area of health has been fully regulated. Among other things, the law regulates the right of a person with mental disorders and highlights the treatment of a person with mental disorders that is primarily performed in primary health care, whenever possible, and in a health care facility where it is the only or the best way, which is in line with the tendency in the world that treatment of persons with mental disorders is not distanced, and not that such persons are removed from the social environment in health institutions that become some kind of asylum for them. So it should be noted that living and working conditions in psychiatric hospitals are not only for patients but also for low-level healthcare professionals. Bad hygiene conditions rule. Medical devices are obsolete, and innovative therapy is not represented. Many of them remain in the health care facility after treatment, since they lost social contact during treatment, since there are programs missing from which they could build their ability to live and work on their own and what is needed to return to the community. In practice so far, it has often occurred that persons with mental disorders have not been informed of the consequences and risks of the medical measures being applied to them, nor has their consent been sought, which is explicitly prescribed when they are able to give them. The law regulates the so-called so-called law. forced hospitalisation of persons with mental disorders, precisely prescribing in which cases such a person can be placed in a health care institution and in what procedure, which is very important to prevent the abuses that so far existed in practice. Since this is an act that encroachs on the personal integrity of a man by law, respect for human rights is guaranteed during forced hospitalization. Society should send a clear message that there is no shame in having a problem, and even less to seek the help of an expert. With a few more sentences, I'll refer to the Patients' Rights Act. It is a law that fully regulates the area of patients' rights and their protection, whose adoption is important because Serbia is one of the countries in the region that does not yet have such a special law, and because of Serbia's efforts to bring the legal system into line with European and international standards in this area. According to him, the patient is exercising his rights in a partner relationship with a healthcare professional, or a co-worker, and the protection of rights is achieved through the organisation of patient rights advisers and the education of health advice. It is particularly important to point out that the adviser is not financially linked to a health institution, which is a prerequisite for his independence in work. Good legal solutions are also the right of a patient to a second opinion, as well as respect for his time. The SNS parliamentary group will vote for these laws that are necessary and for which it is high time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15703	National MP Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15704	The President-in-Office, respected Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues have been told quite a bit about these laws. I'll try to be as short as I can and start with the Patients' Rights Act. The bill on patients' rights is essentially an attempt to address the problem in this area of human rights locally by including local self-government. The formation of health advice and the transfer of patient advisors to the city level of the Ministry of Health hereby forms another local political regulatory body to oversee the work of doctors. The law suggests that infringement of patients' rights is not a systemic but a personal problem and that high fines that are threatened will force doctors to advance partnership with patients. However, it is clear that the right of patients to access, continuous and quality healthcare does not violate an irresponsible healthcare professional but rather a poorly arranged system. This came because the harmonisation of the rules with EU rules after 2002 was largely a matter of law-prescription without taking into account the specificities of the existing situation. Over time, such laws have caused major problems in the field of health care. When the 2005 Health Protection Act proved not applicable, doctors, patient protectors, additional work, chambers, accreditations and other innovations of this law were then selected with frequent amendments and additions to the law. When that didn’t help, their selective application, or violation of the law, was legalized. Thus, a lack of respect for the law ended up officially leading us to the invisible last place in Europe for the quality of health services. The Health Council, as an association of citizens from the ranks of patients, together with representatives of health institutions and representatives of the Health Insurance Fund in co-operation with the Attorney-General, who are already working in local self-government, should take care of patients' rights under the bill. However, they will not improve the quality of health services if this law is not largely affirmed, above all, by the partner relationship of doctors and patients. Returning dignity to the medical profession and establishing new trust and mutual respect for healthcare professionals and citizens is an important, very important programme goal of the SNS. That's why we're not gonna let the blame for violating patients' rights be brought down on doctors only. Namely, the very title of this law, then a large number of criminal provisions with high amounts of money, constitute health care as a potential social danger. In order to avoid this impression, it is necessary to balance in this law, which you too advocate, the rights of patients with their obligations and to stress the need to develop partnership with healthcare professionals. Doctors are already putting too much pressure on the public, because they are irrevocably carried out on a pillar of shame as the most corrupt officials. For corruption, however, and for the violation of patients' rights, they are not the most responsible healthcare workers, but a poorly arranged system. In the light of the draft law, for example, it states that the adoption of a law on patients' rights should, I quote, "add existing rules that in a direct or indirect manner regulate the area of patients' rights. "How the provisions of already existing laws will be harmonised with the rights of patients in this bill when very often existing laws or do not apply in practice, or are in itself the cause of violations of patients' rights. For example, how we will ensure equal access to healthcare services without discrimination in relation to financial opportunities, if private patients pay services already covered by health insurance, and this is paid by doctors who provide the same services in state institutions. In some ways, through a poor organisation of work in state health institutions, patients are forced to pay these services again. So in the era of white plague, for example, with us, pregnancy control becomes an additional cost, and in the era of increasing the number of cancers of the cervix, the papal test becomes a reliable private business. It can't be changed by the law on patients' rights, and even less easily made promises. There is a need for a radical change in health policy and a full set of health laws, and then a return to their custom of respect. How can patients be helped by the declarative right of preventive measures without discrimination in relation to financial opportunities in such an orderly supplemental work? Now, the sparrows of the branch know that supplemental work, under the name of the state doctor in private practice, is a classic example of conflict of interest, even when it's legal. However, it is mostly illegal, since it is rare that any doctor has shortened his working hours in the state institution so that he can work privately, as foreseen by the law. Reports of doctors working like this are issued with the signature of a pensioner whose name is the infirmary registered. Some of these pensioners are already old enough to have their diplomas licensed at expert meetings they are unable to attend. It's all organized under the patronage of private polyclinic owners who are the only ones who benefit. The question is, what role should the Ministry of Health, the health inspectors, the medical chambers be in, of course, protecting this law and ensuring its application? In itself, the bill on the protection of patients without a follow-up set of laws that would essentially correct Serbia's health policy will continue to be left to market law. If we want to move to the quality of healthcare from the invisible last place in Europe, we will have to deal with legislation more seriously and extensively in this area. A first step towards the path of Serbia's health care would be a thorough revision of all documents related to the definition and implementation of Serbia's health policy in 2002. A policy which has, among other things, collapsed due to full improvisation on a daily political basis, overcoming party interests instead of national interests. Some directors of health institutions have been set up and protected, and many of them have no concept of development, nor the elemental knowledge of the institution to be managed, and are still in place. Isn't it clear that those who were part of the problem can't be part of the solution. Many have embarked on numerous illegal activities and crime that must be investigated just as zealously and quickly as taking bribes of 50 euros by a doctor has been investigated. Today, new laws are urgently needed, new people in this area, not the addition of existing ones. When we pass laws that won't deceive patients, such as having their own doctor chosen by the so-called doctor. the chosen doctor, and in fact only restricts the right to another expert opinion or will have the right to quality health care while in practice they only have a free check-up with the doctor of general practice. So when we get rid of this kind of savings, under the assumption that it came from some other systems where the situation is completely different from ours, only then will we be able to provide our patients with the rights mentioned in this law. A partner relationship and mutual trust between doctors and patients should represent its most important segment. However, the law will only contribute to this partnership if the other health laws change, and in accordance with the rights of the patients mentioned here and who, of course, we all care. As a result, we expect a new health care and health insurance law as soon as possible, for which the SNS advocates and whose design it will make a full contribution. I'd like to refer to the proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, with a few suggestions. First of all, the proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders represents a significant, long-awaited and courageous step in the legislative solution to the problem of the person with mental disorders. Given that most of the measures are related to people with mental disorders so far, it has mostly been regulated by the 1995 apparitions and regulations. The problem of forced hospitalisation of a person with mental disorders is also a major legal and ethical problem in the part of the need to protect the rights of the person with mental disorders, and also to ensure the protection of the social and material environment that can be significantly compromised and threatened in the context mentioned. My suggestion refers to Article 22, which regulates the initiation of proceedings for the detention of persons with mental disorders, which I quote, "the detention procedure without consent and accommodation without the consent of a person with mental disorders can be initiated by members of his family rope, body of custody, employer and healthcare professionals by informing the MUP and emergency medical assistance about the threatening behaviour of such a person". Since people with mental disorders are often not in a working relationship, do not have or have a fragmented or mentally disturbed family without proper insight into their medical condition, that the elderly are often irresponsible or absent at that time, and the community suffers the consequences of maladaptive behaviour of a person with mental disorders, I believe that Article 22 should be extended or some modusa should be found that, other than those mentioned, a detention procedure without consent and accommodation without the consent of a person with mental disorders can be initiated by members of his family, body of custody, employer, health workers, as well as by representatives of the local community or the congregation of residents where the person lives by informing the MUP and emergency medical assistance about the threatening behaviour of such a person. That's my suggestion. We will, of course, support both laws in the voting day, that is, the SNS parliamentary group, with a few amendments that we have submitted. I hope you accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15705	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15706	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when there are some partial laws in front of us, our feelings are always a little mixed. On the one hand, we are aware that these laws improve, especially when it comes to patient rights laws, especially the rights of patients with mental disorders. On the other hand, we are also aware that this health care that we have today and the organisation of health care needs one serious and fundamental reform. We've always been in a dilemma about whether we should have reformed earlier by passing a whole set of health laws or dealing with a step-by-step issue like this. I am more inclined to move more courageously into these reforms, but I am aware that often the situation will come to our thinking about our opportunities and our desires. In this gap between material opportunities and the desire for what kind of health we have to come into one situation that the national strategy that has been adopted in healthcare does not follow legislation. That's why I think it might be a good practice that, not only in laws like this, but also in all other laws, we make laws double, laws that will start to apply today, and laws that will start to apply in, say, three years' time. Then we could do what the national strategy expects of us, which means that we define some direction of development, the path, our intentions, our desires, something that will happen in a number of years, to put into legal form. It's one idea because we're constantly dealing with what our real options are, where we're in reform, whether we're building some wasted houses and just painting something, and basically we're not getting into the depths of the problems we're having. Health care today is overcrowded with many problems. I'll just count some. In the first place is corruption that eats health and that we haven't systematically started fighting at the level of health. There's also a disorder with regard to doctors and patients, a dehumanized relationship. There's both an exaggeration and a huge administration and a lack of priorities. You don't follow the world's trends enough. Health care is too expensive because it's unquality, appliances etc., etc., not to mention. It's a huge number, and all of this needs to be put under one glass and started in a serious strategic debate about how to set up an operational plan that will take three years to come on the agenda and that the law will then begin and exist. But what is, there is, we have what we have, and it certainly needs to be supported because it's a big step just because we had the courage to face it and to pass a law on the protection of patients' rights with mental disorders, first of all. What's the situation in these big psychiatric hospitals today? Pity, sorrow and terror. These people are sentenced there to one casamatical stay. They're people who have nowhere else to go, and when they go, they come into an environment where they're not well received. Discarded by all, they happen either to return, and knowingly they win the disease and practically freedom to replace freedom, which is tragic that they are better off in that freedom than in freedom, or, since the organization doesn't exist at all, that only after a while the hospital asks where these people are, they just call them -- he killed himself a long time ago, only you haven't been told. This patient, who was supported and accepted, could live in some normal society, but simply killed himself because there was no place for him in the middle of our community. The third group of people in those big hospitals is the one who has nowhere else to go because there's no one left to go. These are people who have practically lived there for 20 and 30 years. That's when that big psychiatric hospital turned into a social institution. There are also some people who, in addition to their accident and the disease they have found themselves in, have the opportunity to come out and then in some environment, manage their families somehow to cope with the great burden of that family so that they can endure it all and endure it all. Now we're in the middle of thinking about a system that should have been overcome a long time ago, that asylum, that treatment that's not really a big treatment, but it's when it goes through and when it comes to a reading or a stable reading, now psycho-social rehabilitation is actually the most important thing. Unfortunately, there is no later, and if carried out in these conditions the large hospital results are usually not any. That's why we talked, but on the one hand we're aware that at this point society can't organise this psycho-social rehabilitation in the community, but it's necessary. So if we were to pass a law that will take effect in three years, we could prepare ourselves as people to be more people and to teach our environment in which we live to realize that there are some people who need more, who can be very grateful, who can be very useful and who can do very much to cure just these people who think themselves completely normal. What is unfortunately not happening, and I hope that it will happen and I feel that there is this thinking in the ministry, just because the home of health is prepared for such a thing, and then perhaps in the home of health, we could prepare what's at the beginning of this day hospital, this medical treatment, to prepare this relationship between the home of health and some large psychiatric institution, and that there might be one organization in which civil society might be involved in some next step, including various NGOs, and we already have a lot in Serbia today, four-five, which can be the basis of the state to start such a psycho-social rehabilitation in the community. What's terrible is these neuropsychiatric hospitals inside the penitentiary. It's only a great sadness. It's Auschwitz, only without gas chambers and no gas furnaces. It's terrible that psychiatrists belong there to the Justice Department. They're separated from their profession. They're more prosecutors and judges and cops than real psychiatrists who need someone there to help. There's no one ever helped anyone, and these people stay there blocked, untreated, pressed and filled with fears, under some police pressure. It's something that society has to pay very good attention to, especially since psychiatrists are the most corrupt, it's a fact, because there can be one way or another and it's hard to prove the truth about a patient at all, whether he should stay or need to get out. Therefore, there are many problems and I would ask the Minister of Health to return these psychiatrists to the Ministry of Health, so that they can definitely deal with their work, not to be under the pressure of the police or the court and do something else that is not their primary job, that some other people should do and some other institutions should do. What needs to be done for these people, I think it's mandatory care and assistance. Because if you have a grandmother who's immobilized, she has a pension and she has someone else's help, and these people don't have it, it's really a little bit inexplicable for society. What I'd still like to say, given that there are still a lot of speakers, is about the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. I think that law was supposed to follow the Doctors' Law, because it's hard to talk about patients' rights and forget about doctors who hit them third today, that even physical patients are counting on them. Therefore, if we are already talking about a partner relationship, there should be some balance between the rights of patients and the rights of doctors. I'll just look at a few members, how short I've recorded. It's a member, say, the 17th that says that the patient can refuse medical help even when it directly endangers his health and his life. It's a practical introduction to euthanasia at a small door, but personally I have nothing against it, it's one right that a man can have and should not be denied. What's important here and where there's been a lot of debate and dilemmas, they're 15-year-olds, whether they can decide their own health, normally on a medical proposal. I think we can say "yes" and "no" there, it should be sensitive to that story, it certainly takes a little bit, when it comes to operating procedures or some invasive methods, diagnostic methods, there needs to be a little attention, that a child at 15 can't be so aware of his condition that he can judge everything. But, on the other hand, often a 15 - year - old can judge far better than his parents. I think that this can be accepted with certain changes, especially as there have been examples in life, I was personally in a situation to see, that in certain sects, parents were trying to prevent a child from giving blood or performing surgery and there was a fatal outcome. So it's that maybe a child at 15 could evaluate his health and say that, yes, I want that, no matter how much my parents belong to some cult that defends me, or some similar examples, I'm not going to get into individual cases now, we're not going to make it. But the fact is, it's flexible to set that story up and see if I can give those kids the right to decide some things, and in that case, to limit them. In the end, it's just about advice and these counselors. The advice reminds me a little of the former SIZ, it was an institution that had someone bigger – a service provider and a bigger one – service recipients. You had service providers who were doctors and homes of health and medical centres, and the recipients of services were businesses and were citizens. At that time, the congregation discussed what opportunities are for the economy and what it takes for them to provide for that health care money, and it worked at that time, and this is something similar, perhaps a little more modern, a little different, but in any case it can represent one shift in terms of some better communication and better communication and ultimately for the benefit of patients in some areas, some local self - administrations. When it comes to these advisors, there is only a need to be very careful, often we choose these people, we choose them as we choose them by party and by any other lines but then these people are neither professional, there are many neither personal, human, nor professional qualities to be able to do such a responsible job. If we make a course and we prepare these people well, I think it can give good results, but it should really, really do a very careful and very organized, and on the other hand I think it would be good to have for people with mental disorders also some counselors, especially because it's a serious space and there's a far more complex system, when it comes to rights and what can happen, and it doesn't need to be afraid that it'll be a burden for employees, that more of them will be employed, because in local self-government you have employees to statue from all doors, that there's at least one 30% surplus that doesn't do anything and that would be very useful to be employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15707	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15708	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, offered the Patients' Rights Act define many questions, and now the right to preventive measures. We know that preventive measures are very important to prevent the emergence of many serious diseases that, if they are not recognised or prevented in time through the identification of the risk of developing a disease, can lead to a serious health disorder, and thus to an increase in the cost of treatment and uncertainty of the outcome of treatment. For the first time, the patient is not only a sick person, it is also a healthy person who wants to maintain her health by receiving health care, improve her health and prevent or suppress or early detection of a disease. I'm very glad, because as a preventer, for 20 years I've been a worker of the Department of Public Health, I see positive shifts in the return of preventive branches of medicine to the place that belongs to them and I think it's very useful. Prevention is the cheapest and has proven to be very effective and very effective when many chronic mass diseases are at stake. Risk prevention would thus be one of the most effective and cheapest ways to address health problems. At the same time, this law clearly defines the duties of patients who, in the form of taking responsibility for their own health, and through changing and accepting positive lifestyles, improves their health status and reduces the risk of many diseases, and there are also the duties of patients to respect their rights, both in other patients, so that they are responsible and are treated with respect for both health professionals and associates and thus achieve a quality partnership. Article 13 provides the right to other expert opinions, so patients are not only freed from the fear of the famous doctoral suite, they now have the full right to seek another professional opinion from another healthcare professional, without fear, if that professional opinion differs from that of the original one because we know that two pairs of eyes see much better than only one pair. It is very important that the health care institution must also highlight the list of healthcare professionals who will provide this type of service, and all in accordance with the provisions of the World Health Organization and the Lisbon Charter. Article 25 lays down the rights of patients participating in medical research, and they are more severe, so written consent is now required for medical research in the field of public health. It is clearly defined that research must not bear a minimum risk when subjects are children, and research aims to contribute to a better understanding of the state of health in the general population or individual population groups. Research would mainly be in the form of polling questionnaires dealing primarily with research into lifestyle and behaviour in order to prevent disease and improve the health of the general population or individual population groups. In chapter four concerning the protection of patients' rights, it is very good that the patient's right counsel is in the local self-government unit. This ensures complete independence in the work of patient rights advisers. It is good that the deadline of the health care institution to provide the advisor with the requested information, and in relation to the submission of the complaint, is limited and amounts to five days. All in all these bill proposals are draft laws to be supported and SNS MPs will do so on the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15709	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15710	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, we have two laws before us and a bill on patients' rights and a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. These two laws are interlinked, and what was the aim of the adoption of these laws is certainly a systemically arranged protection of the rights and protection of the best interests of patients in accordance with the Constitution and with the Constitution guaranteed the inviolability of the physical and mental integrity of every man. As far as the Patients' Rights Act is concerned, it is certainly in line with the European Charter of Patients' Rights. It's in line with the UN Children's Rights Convention. It is in line with the comet's recommendation on the rights of the child and with their comments on the UN Children's Rights Declaration. It is in line with the Ottawa Declaration and many other international documents. What I would especially like to focus on and what I would like to draw attention to, as far as the Patients' Rights Act is concerned, is Article 3 concerning the creation of a partnership relationship between a patient and a healthcare professional. Why is it important to establish an adequate partnership relationship? Just for reasons of trust, gaining trust and building trust between a patient and a healthcare worker is the basis for both prevention and rehabilitation of each patient. Also, I would like to draw attention to Article 11 concerning notification, and it seems to me, so far to inform patients, and it seems to me that so far no one has mentioned that persons with special needs, or deaf persons, in accordance with Article 11 of this Law, have the right to have an interpreter for them when they are given notice. Also, this member of the law is also significant from the aspect of the confidential counseling of the child, i.e. addressing the child to a healthcare professional, especially in cases where there is a need for this, and I am personally familiar with the positive experience that they had in order to primarily check domestic violence. I am familiar with experience when, thanks to responsible pediatricians and their association with other services in the local community system, there has been a break from the claws of physical, psychological and other domestic violence of children in families. Also, Article 19 of the Law relating to the consent of a child over the age of 15 and this is not some newspaper. The 62nd Family Law, which came into force as early as July 2005 in the position of 2nd, which treats the development of a child, gives the possibility for a child who is 15 years old to decide on medical service. Of course, the medical service is decided by the expert team, decided by the doctor but the child can certainly consent and that is in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Children. Also a member of the 26th Law relating to child accommodation in a stationary institution, it is also in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, where it is said that a child up to 15 years of age can be placed in a stationary institution, along with parents, or guardians. Of course, a child located in a health institution has the right to education, has the right to play, has the right to recreation, and everything in accordance with the child’s health condition. As for the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders, it is a new one and I hope the first step, but a very significant step in terms of the adoption of legal regulations and protection of persons with mental disorders, which fall within the category of particularly sensitive persons. I would especially like to stress here a Article 3 of this Law, which refers to prevention. The need to see a doctor, when it comes to an organic disease, is almost no stranger to any of us. The need to seek help from psychiatrists, psychotherapists or other professional workers, when it comes to mental disorders and mental difficulties, is still unfortunately taboo. In order to overcome this taboo topic, certainly that a health care facility, as the backbone of a system in the protection of a person with mental disorders, should work to raise awareness of all of us, or our citizens, so that you do not feel ashamed and that seeking counsel and help from a psychiatrist, is also no shame. In addition to prevention, I would especially like to point out Article 15 concerning the adoption of an individual treatment plan. The individual treatment plan brings together a professional team, meaning psychiatrist and other healthcare professionals involved, but with active participation and active participation and persons with mental disorders. Even a person who is completely deprived of business abilities and children certainly should be asked for an opinion. The opinion of children and the opinion of persons devoid of business skills and the opinion of persons with mental disorders must certainly be given due attention. Also, this Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, I'd like to commend in a section relating to the retention of a person with mental disorders, without their consent, are members of the law from 22 to 37. As a social worker, and as I am familiar with the wanderings of many families, because mental disorder is not only an individual’s disease, mental disorders and faces suffer from mental disorders, unfortunately these families very often come into a state of dysfunction, they are very often exposed to long-term suffering and in this search, when in these situations, when they are from the behavior of their family members, when they are also threatened with life and health, they often wander from institution to institution. These members of the law precisely specify who can file a notice, which is the custody body, that's the employer, that's the health care service. Who's tolerable? The Department of the Interior and Emergency Medical Services. How's it going? By bringing the emergency MUP and the Emergency Service to the doctor, and the competent doctor, of course, if he finds that there is a need, points to a psychiatric institution. What is important, and how important it is in such a detention of a person, it is particularly an urgent act of the court, a obligation for the court to come to a psychiatric institution, the court to hear first of all a person who has been detained against his will in a psychiatric institution, the obligation of the court to obtain the findings of an expert, a psychiatrist if it is a child, a child's psychiatrist, and the court's duty to request an opinion from the custody authority or from members of the family on the grounds of detention and at all on the conduct of that person in the family. I also see this demand for opinion from the custody authorities as important, as guardianship authorities are institutions that, in accordance with family law, go to many families, go to the field, have insight. Unfortunately, in the case of a person with mental disorders, it often happens that after years of long and continuing suffering, families decide to report a member of their family for this type of treatment. Also, this law, Article 58, regulates the obligations of the workers of the MUP, the perpetrators of criminal and criminal offences, when it comes to persons with mental disorders, where it is precisely prescribed that when they suspect that persons with mental disorders, a person is taken to the nearest health care facility for examination. Since the Law on the Protection of Patients is the basic spirit of this law is the protection of the patient's best interests, that is, the protection of all our citizens, because we are all potentially patients. On the other hand, as far as the second law is concerned, that protection of mental health is of national importance, that the issue of the state's relationship to mental health, in fact its maturity and its democracy, the SNS in the voting day will support both these legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15711	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15712	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, since it's been a very long time, would you please tell us how long has our group been left?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15713	There's only 14 minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15714	I'm going to work really hard for my colleagues to be very brief and concise, although the topic is huge and crucial for this people and for the patients in this country. I think this is a list of good wishes, as we would all like to be feasible and possibly feasible. It seems to me that the keys to these wishes are not held by our Ministry, since I am a doctor, the Ministry of Health, but that the keys are held by the Ministry of Finance. It seems to me that everything that we, as doctors from the field, signal and suffer or work with patients and signal, our ministry is being filtered five times and in many places cut and unfinanced. Namely, these rights that are so beautifully synchronised and placed in one place have been previously respected and applied as a doctrine taught by our professors at the university and the entire medical science. However, since 2000, these rights have been significantly reduced, perhaps even disastrously reduced, because there is no means for basic medical procedures, or for medications used at least at my health center. How is it possible to treat people under Article 3 who say that the patient is entitled to quality and continuous health care in accordance with his medical condition, widely accepted professional standards and ethical principles, in the best interests of patients and with respect for his personal views when, for example, Začak Health Center in 2007, before that first social programme had 2,140 employees, and now has 1,680? So 450 people are smaller. Recently, according to the personnel list on which 1,850 people are also addressed to the Ministry of Health, which, according to my information, has been forwarded to the Ministry of Finance, which, on the basis of some of its parameters, will, I suppose, be cut off. So the question is that all centres, there are 40 of them in Serbia, as far as I know, is a significantly reduced number, which saves huge money, if the average salary of these people is about 500 euros, then that's 10m euros a month, which is a terrible sum. It seems to me that these couples could fund everything that patients humiliate and collect some money for operations abroad. Given the situation in the frames and what someone has come up with very nicely, that healthcare professionals deal with side things, that they count needles, that they count staff, that they count all interventions and that they spend all day talking about things that are completely irrelevant, so, for example, you have a situation that every department in the hospital in Chačka, I believe in every health center in Serbia, has those special buckets to put down needles, that they are recycled. There are stickers that humiliate all those who are inside about the way the hands are washed next to each tap, but that's why there are no maids who have previously been educated to watch out for hygiene, especially those infancy departments, like mine, where there are tuberculosis patients, when cleaning women who work in certain services can't wait to leave this hard room and then dirty gloves, which are being washed by the department, because they simply won't work there tomorrow, because they have no interest in being educated and to look after the other people who stay there. How come in these conditions when you pay attention to it, let's say a year or more than a year in our department there's no "lasix"? I think that's the way it is in the whole country. Import the furosemide that's parallel. "Lasix" is ours, and "furosemide" is imported from Croatia. Where's the logic of economics? The protection of patients in terms of respecting the best professional standards, and let's say antibiotics to treat any inflammation, you have to replace the next day, because the next day in your hospital pharmacy you don't have an antibiotic that you started treatment with, and the next day they tell you to – think about it and call to see what antibiotic you get. I know it generates multi-resistant strains of bacteria, and it represents a very high price that we pay and we will pay if it stays that way. That's what the Finance Ministry is looking for, uh, a strategic partner for Galenika, which is our last remaining domestic drug manufacturer. If that happens, then the drugs that are now ten dinars will be times ten, so it'll be illusory to fight for some patient's rights in the situation if we don't have the drugs, if we don't have a doctor and we don't have medical staff. There are several main things that have been related to what can be guaranteed the business of patients' rights. I'm just going to add something else that I think is hard to do. In article 18, you wrote that patients who are unconscious or for other reasons are unable to declare their consent, an emergency medical measure can be applied without his consent, which will be notified to members of the family whenever possible. The medical measure referred to in Article 1(1) of the medical institution shall be taken on the basis of a consular report. You don't have time to make a consulate if you have a man who, as in my case, is on respiratory medicine, who has a minute, two, three time to start treating chronic respiratory insufficiency in the aucutation, when oxygen and carbon dioxide have replaced their values, when he's being completely non-critical, like drunk. You don't have time if there's a foreign body in the trachea. You don't have time to call on the consulates and make a decision about it. What if you take a medical measure, and that medical measure fails, say, to remove a foreign body from the trachea, you haven't been able to gather at the consulate, you've released a child, a man, no matter who, to die, what's been going on in the last few months? A few people, even children, have lost their lives. I think that the Ministry of Health is between hammers and anvils, between doctors, between patients and what's called the RFZO and the Ministry of Finance, which is very much related to what we as doctors will be able to do, as well as you as the Ministry of Health, to provide doctors and our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15715	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15716	Thank you. Madam Minister, I'll be very brief, because I think it's more appropriate to leave my time to my fellow doctors, given that medicine is not my profession. I'd like to ask the Minister a brief question, so I sincerely hope for that answer. I'm going to be really, really short. What I think is a possible lack of law is that it deals with the right people with mental disorders, so I'm going to talk about this law, not about patients' rights, just from a medical point of view, and I think it would be desirable to include in the protection of human rights the right to social inclusion and the right to treatment conditions in the least restrictive environment. The law stipulates that the treatment of persons with mental disorders, including addiction diseases, is carried out in the local environment, in health homes, but is not more precisely defined in a way that they, in addition to that medical assistance, could be calculated in some form of different support in that environment, so that the treatment would have a full effect, so if you could briefly answer me whether you were thinking about how this might be possible, whether by some rule or otherwise help these people?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15717	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15718	The World Health Organization has adopted the "Health in All Policies 2020" document So the "Health 2020" is called the document, which involves an integrated approach and addressing health problems both in the community and with the Ministry of Social Affairs, Labour, etc., but in which country these resolutions are divided. Practically, one modern view is that there is no solution, especially the unsuccessful pathways for raising health care and that level without all segments of society really taking part in prevention procedures, early diagnosis above all, and of course even diagnosis and rehabilitation treatments and treatments. What is essential is that we can pass legal acts for those segments for which we are directly in charge of this country, i.e. in the domains of those tasks that the State has entrusted us with. In this way we want to be a little model of others who are complementary to us to cooperate. It would be pretentious if we had proposed regulation of legal procedures in the field of social protection, which and how they intertwined with many issues including dependence on psychoactive substances, and which was the reason that our predecessor in the discussion, the SNS, was very rightly thinking. Of course, the sublegislative acts will provide that the home of health is one place that also within the framework of deinstitutionalisation, but independent of it should be a place of gathering of team members under preventive and diagnostic procedures. You can't imagine a team where a psychiatrist is really one of the most important linkages without a psychologist, a defectologist, a social worker, a lawyer, depending on the specific issues that are being addressed. When it comes to disease addictions over 20 so-called. The methadone centers are now turning into centres for mental-active-related problems. The Republic Expert Commission dealing with these issues has made very correct proposals, where the way you think about it offers the ministry the possibility that in a better way by sublegal acts, I mean sublegal acts that arise from this law solve this issue, and that will be our task in the next six months. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15719	Thank you. Sasa Maksimovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15720	Thank you, Madam Minister. Since the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders is a law first passed in the Republic of Serbia, I truly believe that the possibility of improving the rehabilitation of a person with chronic mental disorders will be created, as you said through the translation of hospital asylum treatment into psychosocial treatment programs in the community. For this reason, me and the SNS MPs, I sincerely hope the other fellow MPs, will vote on both draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15721	Thank you. National MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15722	I thank Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the extremely short time we have left, I will only concentrate on a few members of this bill to leave time for the other colleagues, who have caused a certain misunderstanding with me and a disagreement with this law that I have expressed on the Health Committee that we had two days ago. In particular, Article 3 states that patients are guaranteed the same right to quality, continuous health care in accordance with their health conditions. Well said. However, we know that, in the context of present material opportunities and equipment, we are not able to respond to this legal requirement, especially we are not able to ensure continuity in treatment, such as air therapy, as a continuation of surgical intervention in malignant diseases, in rehabilitation, after cardiovascular and traumatic diseases. It's known and unfortunately so. So that's just a nice wish you've put into law. Article 6 that has also caused a certain concern says – that the right to the quality of health services implies an appropriate level of health service provision. A fine member, but in the current organisation of health care, it is impossible to always make this beautiful wish come true. First of all, we all know that unfortunately due to the present corruption, the patient’s health status often depends on his physical condition, or how much he is able to pay to speed up a certain procedure, to move faster on the order of surgical intervention, to shorten the time on the waiting list or to avoid that waiting list. This is all the kind of corruption that we can't put under the carpet and we know it's absolutely like that. The place of residence you have also listed is once an insurmountable obstacle for patients, because patients living in the headquarters of clinical centres are privileged because they are facilitated access to top institutions, while patients from the interior need the consent of regional branches of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Because of the enormous legal powers we have just given this organization and the alleged savings that filter is often impossible and patients cannot pass that filter. The quality that they demand in some top-level institution is not capable of accomplishing precisely because of that filter and the branch office of the Republic Health Insurance Office. Article 11(2) says – in the process of achieving health care, a child who is capable of judgment regardless of the years of life has the right to confidential counselling and without parental consent when it is in the best interest of the child. Who decides when a child is capable of judgment? Who's going to make that conclusion? Some age limits would still have to be defined more precisely. What kind of confidential counseling do you say, without the presence and consent of parents with a child for example, for ten years? We are also faced with drug addicts, children and 13, 14, 15 and 16 years of age, to ensure that the family participates in this treatment, if she has the right to not participate in it, but has the right to confidentiality, because you said here – regardless of the age. So she can be a ten-year-old. Article 14 of Article 6 shows – according to the patient’s review rule.. etc., that I don't read everything because there's not enough time, so the patient can refuse to attend students, students, specialists, etc. I think this member should be approached much more studioly, because if we so generally give the patient the right to refuse the presence of students, medical students and dentists and specialists in specialization, how will practical teaching take place? We know you can't learn everything from a book without practical application. Unlike Western school systems, our students and students leave school and college with very scarce practical knowledge and mastered skills. Our students have an extremely rich theoretical knowledge on which we put the accent, but it says they have very little practical knowledge because they have not mastered practical skills. Based on such a legal solution and what few could overcome will be even less, and this will certainly reflect on the future independent provision of health services to patients. So that's pretty wide, so the patient can refuse, and it should still be regulated in a way that's more precise. Now we come to the 19th in which we participated, especially in the Health Committee, and much has been discussed here. I'm asking you again, I hope you'll answer me. By what parameters and who decides that a 15 - year - old is capable of self - judgment? Why do we bring down the border from 18 to 15 years old, if we know that in all legal regulations, a person of 18 years of age is capable of self-judgment and decision-making, except in exceptional cases, of individual mental and mental illnesses. This means that, in extreme cases, we give the child the right to medical cosmetic procedures, whose actual consequences are not yet conscious, but he has the right to seek them, even if he initiates proceedings against the patient's rights protector if refused, which is contained in Article 46(6). I remind you that a 15-year-old is in eighth grade primary school. (President: Time. ) Can I ask only one question from the minister? I won't read any more. On behalf of the gynecologist of Serbia, I ask the question. Here comes a 15-year-old girl who's in a different condition. Since we're proposing a procedure. We're proposing an end to pregnancy. What you've told us -- you have one law, and that's the 16-year-old pregnancy termination law that says she can decide for herself. You've got another law that says that 15 years of age, she can decide for herself about the procedure. Whatever the gynecologist does in this case will violate one of the laws. What law is older? Does the law that says that under the age of 16 have to have the consent of parents or other law that says that she can make her own decisions? What law will a doctor break? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15723	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15724	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the President of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, etc. Today, a church dignitary served liturgy for the retirement of the government and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Certainly, the Serbian Orthodox Church has its canons and I believe that it is not in line with these canons, but I would not enter those canons. The National Assembly has its own canon, i.e. my own Rules of Procedure, which I must advertise, and I believe that the President of the National Assembly would have to respond to such a qualification and such an insult and could be told the threat to the National Assembly and MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and should protect the reputation of the National Assembly, this high home. He was supposed to go into the O.R. and make his point on the matter. As far as I know, he didn't do it. I believe that this hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, although, on many issues, much more irrelevant, advertised and knew that he was using the Assembly Hall and the Assembly Hall for advertising on much less important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15725	I assume the president of the National Assembly will answer on this matter. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15726	Honorable MPs, the medical measure within the meaning of this law is not an end to pregnancy. The issues of termination of pregnancy are regulated by a special law, which we discussed yesterday. I think we've even come to the conclusion in dialogue that there's a special law that regulates it. The medical measure in the spirit of this law is preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic or rehabilitation measures proposed by expert teams. In particular, when it comes to a minor who is 15, 16 years old and possibly a subject or, let me say, a dilemma whether to end a pregnancy or not. This is not the measure proposed by the teams of experts from the domains of this law and this matter. On the other hand, the time period of 15 years was determined by our family law, which this parliament adopted in 2005. We are given the opportunity to think whether our country is in line with what we estimate that limit or whether it's higher or lower. There are countries with 15 and 16 years and lower and higher. So we can do this, but not within the framework of this law, but within the framework of a change, or a change of family law, we can start and talk about it. Who's the one who assesses psychophysical maturity? All those in medical procedures, preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitation procedures. So all doctors as a mandatory subject had medical psychology with psychiatry. It is in our higher education system a mandatory subject, where mental maturity is estimated, because it can be here perhaps more controversial than a psychic, physical is simpler and the one who graduates from medical school is obliged to assess whether it is in accordance with life, the degree of education, the social status of a person, or a minor child, a girl, a 15-year-old girl, a person really and mentally and physically mature. There are very clear parameters. It's a domain of profession, and I wouldn't bother you with that, but the doctors know very well. They often consult psychologists and psychiatrists of their own or other health institutions, if they do not have within their health institutions this professional profile and are most often team-rated if an individual doctor has any dilemma. So in environments where gynecologists need to assess mental maturity, and feel their own insecurity, it's quite correct to include psychologists and psychiatrists and to do it teamwise, which is usually in practice. I'd like to say this isn't a newspaper of this law. This is something that already lives in practice. It did not compromise itself, and perhaps it was not the idea to change this 15-year limit, but it was in the course of a public debate that was a very significant number of those who were wondering if it was 15 years old. I say once again, this law regulates the procedures that experts propose to a 15-year-old child. It does not suggest a child to an expert, but the medical measure is always proposed by expert teams and experts to the child in the best professional and any other interest of the child. That would be my answer to my colleague, Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15727	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15728	Dear Vice-President, I'm advertising a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. We didn't want to insist on it sooner, but it opened the polemics. I don't think you have the right to go so easily over this observation by Mr. Veselinović and the expectations, I mean, of all normal people in this room that as a Parliament or you as someone who at this moment, at all, replaces the president of the National Assembly, you give a very clear political reaction to the Assembly, human, moral, whatever you want, to the truly inadmissible, terrible, terrorist threat of the work of the SPC Claire. As usual, in this case the bishop of Amphilochy and the bishop of Atanasia were preceded. We have no right to act here like someone who doesn't see what's going on outside this room. We've talked about this a thousand times. The messengers in this room keep ringing their phones. The press is looking for reactions. The public is completely upset. An open war begins. The bishop of SPC, who lives in another country, wished us all death. He said he was praying for the retirement of the Assembly, all 250 MPs in this assembly and a regular elected Serbian government. We were elected by citizens in the election. I don't know who chose Amphilochy – God or Marriage, and I don't care about that, it's a question for the church, but in this country no one can threaten the death of the MPs and members of the government. When it happened last time, and some said that everyone protested in their work clothes, the president of this country's government died a year and a half after that. So either let the congregation react or put us in a position to live in a society that is not from the 21st century, but from the 18th century or 19th, the time of the Wild West. Are we all going to defend ourselves against the mantis on the street tomorrow if this goes unpunished?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15729	Mr. Djuric, unlike you, I sit in this room all the time. I don't have any media in front of me. I didn't get any messages on my cell phone, which I was turned off all the time, so I could follow the session. I really can't react to something I'm not meant to be in. Is anyone else looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15730	Thank you. I share a painful impression after today’s spoken words and a painful impression when the retirement of living people is served. However, what I would like to give in response to is a colleague who does not belong to the party of the uninformed, and seems to be uninformed or trying to be uninformed, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today after the event and after the rally, or what can be called, has made one statement. I quote that statement - the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia said today that he does not support the coup on parliament, on government, on the state, and that it is known in the country that there are political views, on how political life is organised, on what kind of organisations, and in what way he added that today's behaviour is not in the interests of both citizens and the Republic of Serbia. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, came out with his clearly expressed stance. Imputations that there is no position on the subject of these threats that have been brought forth, and for which both I as a man and as a member of the SNS, as one of the 250 people to whom life has been served today, but I think that all those words spoken today speak enough about those who brought them out, but also about those who applauded in such words. But I am sure that most Serbia is impressed by the impression of this hall, such as the bitter taste in its mouth, as it is for us who represent the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What I cannot allow is that parliament remains silent on such expressed views and this is the speech and attitude of Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15731	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising a member of 103 who says in the first position - the MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, underlining the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and it has been done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and it is immediately after the injury has been done. So, I believe that the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure when he allowed the advertising of Article 27 and allowed the adjudication of the Rules of Procedure to be made by priests in the Republic Square, if that is indeed done. This was not at the session, and the Rules of Procedure clearly states that it should be done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and it should be done immediately after the injury has been done. An injury can be done by the president of the National Assembly. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly did not hold a ferment in the Republic Square, so if the Rules of Procedure is injured, he cannot be harmed by the bishop at some rally in the Republic Square, no matter how strange it may seem. Also, it would be funny if I said that a certain MP climbed a mountain, to a winter, and there he bad-talked about the Republika Srpska Assembly and thus injured the Rules of Procedure. So it never occurred to me to say that someone went to winter, to summer, to be killed by a height difference, that there was a very bad talk about the National Assembly and the Republic of Serbia, and that it hurt the Rules of Procedure, because it did it somewhere in a white world country, far away from us and hence, the President of the Assembly couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, as well as the bishop, whatever he did, couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, let alone the President of the National Assembly who wasn't in the Republic Square. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15733	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15734	I'm advertising an article. 106th and 107th. I believe that two previous speakers have violated the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I do not want to further discuss this topic here. Amphilochy's statement speaks enough of him. The speaker's statement also speaks enough of him. It is very explicit, clearly, on time spoken, at the right time, in the right way. What SNS MPs have now said speaks enough of them and it seems that Amphilochy's statement does not shake them at all. They aim at political points, and they are not aimed at the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which I have tried to protect now through the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. That was my goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15735	You called in an article. 106th and 107th. The Rules of Procedure said that they were hurt and that the previous two speakers hurt them. So I remind you that the Rules of Procedure can only harm the Chairman. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seeing as members of the former regime are in a very business mood, they are now detesting that I have received the right to replication, and several times the SNS and its MPs are mentioned. The previous two speakers who spoke for this speaker before a colleague from the DS were also SNS MPs or were selected from the SNS list. When it responds, it is a good president of the National Assembly, which is also from the SNS and belongs to the SNS parliamentary club, but is not good SNS MPs. Make up your mind about what you want. Or do you want, as you say, the most important political points, so if it weren't for political points, these advertising rules that don't exist, you wouldn't even be working, you'd be involved in politics. Now, the most important thing is, they don't give us our laws, we've passed your laws. Like, it's an attack. Or the SNS is to blame for the economic situation in the country. You say, "The fall of living standards." Come on, think about it. If one family has a loan with a bank of 1,000 euros, it is due today to pay 8,000 dinars less. If you had stayed in power, maybe the euro would have been bigger. How is this a worse political and economic situation in the country? It's much better, only you don't want to admit it, and we're solving problems both with corruption, which you shouldn't have, and with the political situation and the problem of Kosovo, which you ran away from, some of them publicly, like those who didn't come to this hall today, and some of them secretly, who are now afraid of words spoken at a rally. That's the policy you're running.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15737	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15738	The first part, dear colleague Arsic, we didn't understand. The second part we understood, but I don't understand how you went into that field. We're actually discussing nothing here. It seems to me that we have shown a very well-intentioned problem, not just us from the DS, but other colleagues who are equally pressuring everyone, because we are all on that list. You tried to put this in a straight line whether it was someone in the SNS or not. It's irrelevant in this situation, it really doesn't matter. Veroljub Arsic, from the place: Why is it mentioned? ) No SNS has been mentioned, the president of the Assembly has been mentioned, and being a member of the SNS, that is the issue of this particular matter relevant to the institution it represents. Try to understand once that the things that come from the DS towards you are not and will not be maligneous, especially in these situations. They are designed to protect the interests of the citizens. If we're to blame for the economic situation, Mr. Arsic, because we've given Mladjan Dinkic to do what he's doing, then you're now ten times more guilty, because the situation is both economical and living standard ten times worse. So you're ten times more guilty than DS, because you gave it to Mladjan Dinkic what we gave, but we paid the price, and you haven't yet. That's what we said in July last year and you disobeyed us. So when you get up and say -- you live better, people pay less, that's nice, but the problem is that that's what you believe in Serbia, because those who vote for you know their wallets are empty. That's the problem. Don't make the mistakes of those you criticize from the past. Try to rise above it and realize that you represent citizens who today are threatened, not only by the economic disaster situation, which we are asking to discuss, but also by encouraging the blackest things and ideologies in our country, which happened today in the square.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15739	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15740	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of a 106th member who says the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda under investigation, as well as a member of 108th where it is you who, in the absence of the President of the National Assembly, chair this session of the National Assembly. Of course, this always turns into a bickering of the main opposition and positional party, and since I see that it has become a topic of the agenda and Mladjan Dinkic, I think it should have been the topic of the agenda for the last ten years, at least. As for whether the president of the National Assembly should have called or not, I think that all the parliamentary groups together with the National Assembly were supposed to come forward, in light of all the vomit he said, not one bishop, because he is not a bishop, but an opener in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15741	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15742	Turns out some things didn't happen, and we just witnessed it. I wanted to say that every occasion is used in this assembly to attack either the President of the Assembly or the ruling majority. I don't mind, it's your political right, but when that attack turns out to be unfounded, it's your fault that individuals as MPs are yours. That's what your MP, Mr. Stefanovic, was talking about, about nothing else. You asked him to come by, he answered, you didn't even know, you didn't do it. I don't mind that. You tried to make a political point, frankly, I believe your wishes have been sincere, but you failed to vaporize through some political result. It's not our fault. Then these stories begin with what the MPs are like. Don't tell that story about Mladjan Dinkic anymore. We are willing to pay any price and for every political decision to answer, it stands. Whether Mladjan Dinkic is a good or bad minister, that will be said of him by the people in the elections. They'll tell us about us and what kind of government this was, because we're the biggest party that makes up the ruling majority. We're not running away from it, Mr. Stefanovic. Also, the problem is that many of the people your party has, if not supported, why didn't it prosecute them in front of the competent state authorities for the robbery of both states and citizens? It's ruined the state and the economy. This is the responsibility of the Democratic Party. She had her chance, she exercised power for almost six years straight. You're talking about Young Dinkic... (Chairman: Time! I'm done. Well, during your government, the finance minister was from your political party, the Prime Minister from your political party and finally the Prime Minister and the finance minister from your political party. There, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15743	Thank you. Please don't throw away. Does anyone want any of the reported violations of the Rules of Procedure to advertise? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Petronijevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15744	I want to ask that a member of 106 be respected and we talk about what's on the agenda, but I'm asking for it out of protest, because I come to the conclusion -- no more as a MP to defend me like this. About a scandalous statement, it's a scandalous statement sent by a church dignitary, the assembly needs to rise up and strongly condemn it and request the intervention of state authorities, otherwise we go to anarchy. We're used to listening every day to criminals and hooligans threaten the state's top of murders, etc., and today we heard it from the mouth of a church dignitary. What is that, but scandalous at least? We should be indignant to condemn and request the intervention of the state authorities. If we're not ready to do that, let's get back to the agenda, that's who we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15745	Thank you. I agree with you that we should return to the agenda, but Mrs Plassic has previously reported for the replica. (Predrag Mijatovic, from the post: I answered first of all. ) Yes, you've reached out about the agenda point, but we've gone a little beyond the agenda. You're absolutely right, you wanted to replicate Minister Djukic Dejanovic, but I'm asking you only to end these violations of the Rules of Procedure, so we will continue. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15746	Unfortunately, I'm reporting for article 27. We can't get over it that easily. You, Mrs. Kovac, have allowed this to go back to the discussion of two political parties. From what Mr. Arsic said, it turns out that all those of us who pointed out today to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, after which Mr. Petronijevic, in fact want to make political points. I really don't understand that monstrous claim and why you even let it be said in this House. Who in all has the ambition to benefit politically from suggesting that the bishop of the Serbian Orthodox Church practically threatened us with death? Now you let them yell. Maybe today we wouldn't have reacted this hard if someone hadn't paid their head off after a message to Zoran Djindjic at the mitts that Tito had a problem with his leg before he died. The words are a terribly flammable thing and have political parties the right to change their minds and to today pretend like they never said such words, but they have no right to close their eyes and ears in front of the fact that those who have made this negative energy, hate and threats continue to roll with these streets, just don't wear print T-shirts anymore, but wear mantium.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15747	Thank you. Please return to the debate on the agenda. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15748	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Since I didn't get an answer from the minister, we haven't finished, but on behalf of the gynecologist Serbia, I wanted to get a very decadent answer to the question I asked. I got a political response, and I wanted to distract her. So I think it's now lost every purpose. Also, you'll let me, since I've waited this long, why is this superstition and this political burlesque, whether someone's holding the iron or not? What's with the superstitions? If he's holding us in irons, he can keep it to himself, but it's not in the assembly right now to discuss it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's one nonsense. We're making a political burlesque, which is what certain parties want to make certain points out of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15749	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15750	I'm reporting under Article 107. I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure by not warning the People's MP who was telling the lie. It's possible you didn't know that in that moment, so I won't take you for harm. However, I must advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the question of what he thinks about the appeal, said -- I do not like the coup on parliament or on the state, it is known that political attitudes are being expressed and political life is being organised.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15751	Mr. Veselinović, you have advertised the violation of Rule 107. What you're talking about right now has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15752	I wanted to say that Mr. Stefanovic only said that he didn't like what Mr. Amphilochy did.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15753	I really ask all MPs to return to the agenda. Mrs Plassic, please give up the replica to return to the agenda, we have already forgotten what we discussed. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15754	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear representatives of the ministry, I would remind us that the health system reform in Serbia began in 2002 and that it then included all three levels of protection, leading to greater availability of healthcare, but it certainly is not something that is sufficient. What I'm going to talk about today, not for too long, is protecting the right patients. Today, there has been a lot of talk about the Roman Charter, and I truly believe it, and it appears that the complete segment of the Roman Charter, or its second chapter, has been implemented precisely in the law on the protection of the rights of patients. What is especially true gave me reason to say, is the fact that, for example, in some health institutions, 72% of complaints have been marked unfounded in the current health care system. When I began to think about this percentage, it pointed out to me that either the patients did not indicate enough when their rights were violated or that they did not know enough methodology or that even the rightholder of patients within a particular medical institution had no ability to react adequately. The institution itself has also been a good step in introducing the right of patients, but it has also proved impossible for a lawyer who is employed in a health care institution to protect both the rights of patients and the rights of that institution. Also, very rarely these lawyers have been involved in human rights affairs within health institutions, so I think it is a good move of protectors, or advisers within local self-government. I think local self-government is one of the most public authorities and it should be one of the closest citizens, and I think it will lead to a certain heightened, let's say, just raising patient awareness of what their rights are and in one reaction. But, parallel to what I'm looking forward to, is education itself, what are patients' rights, and how it creates a partner relationship between doctors and patients, what we've actually forgotten. I really believe it used to exist. We in smaller areas know that we feel it, because I was treated by a doctor who treated my mother and took care of her health, and even in one period my grandmother. I think it's her full support when we talk about patient and doctor relationships, because it's someone who knew my family history very well and who can give tomorrow the best advice for my child. What is certainly commendable is the right to access to healthcare, the right to information, the right to preventive measures. When we talk about information, it is commendable that every patient will know the name and name of his doctor. Yeah, well, it's commendable because it's personal relationships that create trust. Of course, through all this through reform we want to create an independent and efficient institution, which in the old, guarantees the protection of patients' rights. Only an independent and efficient institution can ensure full implementation of every human right, whether it is a health institution, whether it is a body of a state institution, whether it is a parliament. Just the moment we're independent and efficient, we're making our full contribution to this society. What I do, when I talk about the right to information, a little bit created a dilemma, is that the patient has first to get timely information and in a way in his best interest. But certainly it's very common, exactly that assessment, what it is that a patient can endure and in what way. I'd like to ask my colleagues to be a little quieter, if at all possible. Thank you. Since I'm trying to concentrate, I'm trying to outvote 20 and some people, so mines go best, thank you colleagues. Likewise, when it comes to the right to notification, it is something that is as good as the right to free choice, but also the right to another expert opinion, which has so far not been regulated in our health system. What I would also like to pay attention to is the right to see medical documentation, but also the introduction of a health and counsellor at a local level. It is clear to me that at a local level in certain local self-governments there are already advice that they already function in a certain way. But I also think it would be a good idea if somewhere in this council had been defined as a second-degree body in relation to a protection counsellor. It's simply a question of who's going to react if, or who's going to be the one to assess whether the counselor did his job well. Also, everyone here mentions the councilors, I didn't notice that in law it was defined as a committeeman, but it's representatives of local self-government, and it's not necessary to be a committeeman. So I'd like there to be no disagreement in the future. In addition, what is certainly good is that the protector of the rights of patients by old, or counselor, is introduced into private practice. I think it's something we haven't had in our system yet. Given that a good part of the funds goes through public practice, when it comes to health care, I think it's precisely creating equal opportunities and protecting rights in all areas and all levels of what we need to provide patients. Do we have much to do? We do. If there are things that can be done sometimes without money, they certainly do exist. When I looked at these complaints of citizens that have been filed so far, part of it was about the unkindness of health workers. One part of the right on time and the possibility of an appointment. I also have to point out that in addition to the right of patients, I'm sorry that we rarely read in the paper about those great medical workers who do a human job, and a very small number who deafens themselves to what his job is to be pointed out somewhere in the media. It's exactly one of the paintings that destroys the health care institute itself. I would like to remind you that we have given local self-governments the opportunity to supplement that primary health care segment that is not equally accessible to all citizens through their budgets. I will take this opportunity to appeal to all local self-governments to try to give all their fellow citizens adequate primary health care, but I will also appeal to all of us to work together to build independent and efficient institutions as a guarantee of the protection of the rights of both patients and all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15755	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is Dr. Zarko Korach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15756	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of Health and Honored People's MPs and MPs, these are two laws in the field of health that are very important, but they are essentially quite different in character. This first patient rights law was necessary for Serbia because it is in fact part of the human rights corps. As you know, it doesn't look like it in the first wave, but a lot of people have been patients in their lives. Practically, every man in his life, if not when he was a baby, and most are born in a modern society in the hospital, had some contact with a health care institution, a health care professional, and will certainly have many more times in life. So we were in the position of a patient, some unfortunately long in that position, and it's actually a law that concerns human rights fundamentals. Here they are, I would just point out what I think is interesting in this law, he has guaranteed some of the rights that are necessary in modern society, and the realization and realization of these rights is the work of this society in the coming time. There have been some objections here that essentially show a lack of understanding of this. He says - this law guarantees it, but do we have it now? Well, we don't and of course we don't, and that's why this law applies to this law, and by applying this law, it's actually going to be possible for some of these rights to be realised. If I am precise here is some twelve individuals first guaranteed, and starting with a first and basic right that is not even small for underestimation which of course appears in other laws, above all by the health system, it is the right to access to health care and others. Now no my questions will be a few objections. It seems to me that in some things, regardless of what the law is, of course, acceptable, it may have been more concrete, for a shade might go a little further than this law is largely and in principle and concrete. When we talk about the right to information we have one problem in our country, it seems to me, and that's a matter of health practice now, that health care professionals, first of all, have a lot of rights in terms of what they will tell you and how they tell you about your illness. Here Article 7 says in one place – the patient has the right to receive information from Article 1 in a timely manner that is in his best interest. However, I would like another one to stand next to these formulations so that the patient cannot be denied the right to information on his health condition. Do I make myself clear? Don't get me wrong, I'm a psychologist. Sometimes it's counterproductive to tell a patient, but I don't think anyone has the right to deny you information regarding your body and your health. That's when the doctor, the health system takes over. One right that doesn't belong to a healthcare system or a health care professional, even though it works in the best interests of a patient, but belongs only to you. So, to me personally, I think that you would expand the human rights corpus no one can deny the information of my health than I do, although it must be counterproductive to tell the patient sometimes, even at all, it might be happier to have a flow of disease, but simply, it's one principle, my observation. So it bothers me that in this part I miss it. In addition, there is a strong insistence on article 21. – right to confidentiality of patient health data. It is a bit tragic for us that information about the health condition of people really does occur very often in the media and in the public. Look at our tabloids, and sometimes a serious newspaper, they write very extensively about someone's medical condition, and it's clear to you that it's not just said that – she said it somewhere from the hospital, but someone literally has an insight into the patient's file. You'll all remember that these charts are stored in some unsecured rooms, in some rooms where there's no way they can be protected in fact. I am sorry, that when this Article 21 was fully laid out, which is not said, within that article, one obligation of the law that within six months or a year by some sublegal act, that is what the Ministry said on the Committee of Health that it would do, I respect that, but that it has nevertheless entered the law, a period of time in which health institutions will be required to take care of cardboards in such a way and in such a way, to say, patient data that are often in electronic form, so that is an additional problem, how to protect that data. Believe me, these data are being abused, these data people are being blackmailed, for example, how many times someone has had a pregnancy break, some of which is suffering, with diseases that are full of transmission, so there's a lot of situations where a career can be destroyed, his life, so that the data that are really his and private and the matter is health institutions and him, that is, the doctor and him. So there's one obligation missing, it's said, I believe the ministry will do it, but that the ministry might have made a commitment here during what period of time would a sublegal act regulate it? It's just going to have to be like this electronically, like these others, and it's an obligation to watch out, who has a key, a special room, etc., who can even get into that room and stuff. Here, in my opinion, the biggest part of the misunderstanding was this provision that introduced something that exists in that earlier law, which is the minister, a colleague Professor Djukic already said, that is the age of 15. I would just like to ask you to say, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, that I believe is still misunderstanding, not your evil will to those who are against it. Today in the world where we live, the one in which Serbia is today, that part of the world, young people have a lot of knowledge, I can't say that they mature faster, and someone claims that in many difficult conditions children are, it is now for discussion – what it means to mature faster; but certainly some young person over 15, from 15 years of age, must really be questioned, must be part of the process concerning her own health. In 1924, the first Declaration of the Rights of the Child was brought. The United Nations brought that declaration to me in 1989, the then-Yugoslavia signed. Now we have the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This convention is something that here in the Assembly, some people have said quite easily that children can fight, etc., it's absolutely not true. There are UN decisions, we are the signator of those decisions that the child has some inalienable rights. One of these rights today is believed to have given consent to medical treatment since the age of 15. Please, the child doesn't decide it, but the doctor suggests it, and someone 15 years old gives consent or doesn't give it away. We cannot believe that someone 17 years old or almost 18 years old that no one asks him what medical treatment he will receive. I would just like to ask, when we talk about this law, the UNICEF office in Belgrade has had several objections that have not appeared, I know that you have them, I don't know what the technical reason, on the Committee on Health and Family, they have suggested, I agree with that personally, first, that this formulation if the child has the ability to judge, that colleague Djukić Dejanovic is right, that formulation exists in psychology and psychology, it is not controversial, but why is it being introduced only for a child of 15 years? According to that logic I can say – a man of age if he has the ability to reason, to tell him what he's sick of, it can't be a condition. Two, there's been said that in some data that the child gives, a child and three years old, someone here has said whether three or five years old, and five years old, he has the right to privacy because it's possible to have severe child abuse. You have to give the child a chance to tell someone, trusting in the confidentiality of the data, maybe sexually molested by his parent, maybe savagely beating him, so unfortunately no one noticed it in the middle of where the child lives. So, it should be given the right regardless of age, it can be almost absurdly small, early preschool age, that a child has the right to privacy, that something inside of him can be something that happens to him to keep secret. This is where people say -- parents know; what are you going to do if parents are guilty of this abuse and everything? Please, take care, that's more common than we think. All in all, I think the law is useful, I miss it only because there aren't any, as I would say, other things. And let me just say, as far as this Health Council is concerned, it's a whole new institution, we haven't had it yet, otherwise, this Heroes is called in the world of health, he's usually in a health care facility. We're told, maybe it's justified in our society that it's bad for him to be in a health care facility, that he'll suffer the pressure of a doctor, that he'll be a little too familiar with health care personnel. Let me accept that, I'm so indecisive here, I've made a decision to be at the level of local self-government. We've been told, I've asked that question and now I'm asking the public again, he says – a medical lawyer, I asked, what does medical knowledge mean? It has been said that there will be special training for these people, that the Ministry of Health will organise training for protected lawyers, related to the problems of protecting citizens' health. They'll have some IDs, here are the envisaged IDs. They will have the right to come to a health care facility, to appear as protectors of citizens at local level. We didn't have this, this is, like, always the risk of a new law, one institution being introduced. Here, let's be honest, we've been developing some of our democratic Serbia systems intensively since 2000, with all the ups and downs. Some institutions, most of all, depend on the ability of people, like the Guardian of Citizens, I see that citizens are talking to him more and more. So, some institutions have managed to function in Serbia, I hope this will work, because I often hear a lot of complaints about the situation in health institutions, but I have to say that often I hear, what affects me and surprises me, is often about being unkind and these are things that I'm sure can be corrected very easily, so when someone who is the protector of the facility comes, then they'll be able to react quite realistically. These tips, which are unclear to me, are being put in place. How they'll be built, and who'll take care of it. God forbid there are as many municipalities in Serbia as possible. It's probably only going to be in some at first, but let's just say that at some point, they'll see if this worked or didn't work. I'm rooting for it to work. Whether it will succeed in Serbia, you are never clear on good ideas whether they, don't use that disastrous term that has nothing to do with Serbian language, will live in practice. It's a disastrous Serbian language. Will it be functional or exist in the right way in society? This other law is closer to me. Most countries don't have this law. This law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, I assume he's very fond of our minister. She's a neuropsychiatrist herself. I think we should have this law. The problem with this law is something else. This law is restricted by profession. So if this first concerns human rights, conventions and the Declaration of Human Rights, this law is largely limited to what is today psychiatry, clinical psychology. You can't go far beyond it. Of course, in this law very precisely regulates things that are actually the most complex in psychiatric-psychological practice, and he, first of all, if he skips the opening provisions, he very precisely defines two things, which were first spoken about in parliament, and the second was not, as far as I followed the debate, and unfortunately I couldn't do this morning, I had other obligations, not mentioned. The first is forced hospitalization. My conscience requires me to say that there are countries that don't have this. Let's talk straight. The former Yugoslavia did. Serbia has inherited it and has Serbia. This has existed in Serbia for decades. There are countries that don't have this. They think it's a violation of basic human rights that with a medical order someone can put you in a psychiatric facility. There, unfortunately, the state only reacts when someone commits an offence, but then you have a problem with someone in some very poor mental state, aggressive, paranoid, doing some serious crime and only then can the police react. He has his own dangers, that full protection of human rights. We here restrict human right to freedom and it's very dangerous and that part of the law here has tried to regulate. You saw that within 24 hours you had to give an opinion when you brought that person in, when the police and the ambulance brought him to a psychiatric facility. Within three days there must be a court ruling, which will be very interesting, because it can happen during the holidays, it can happen on weekends and things can be interesting. It's about this law on a network of courts. The place where it's being tried can be far away. From what I've seen, there's no court in every place where there's a psychiatric facility, so that's a problem, but those three days are really a maximum deadline for me, because someone can really be put in a psychiatric facility, and to establish, there was an expert, whatever legal procedure is now, that he doesn't think he belongs here. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm just warning you of something -- being in a psychiatric facility isn't like being oncology or in gynecology. It carries the Stigma, and for the rest of its life, that person can follow that he was in a psychiatric hospital; which is tragic, but the reality of most of the societies we live in. So these aren't unserious things. That could have a life-saving sequencing effect. As the famous American sociologist said - it's the career of a mental patient. Once they glue the label to a mental patient, you can never take it off again, someone will always whisper behind you, you won't get a job, you won't be able to make friends, they won't let you be a parent and a lot of what. In other words, it's not for the game. If we inherited this practice, then counterpart Djukic Dejanovic is right, it should be reduced and it should avoid the possibility of someone really against their will being in a psychiatric institution. The other thing that's defined here in more detail is electroconvulsive, sometimes called electroshock therapy. Not to open the topic of this therapy now, it certainly helps in some cases, especially with depression. By the way, since women are more depressed than men, 70% of people treated with electroconvulsive therapy are women, so this concerns women's rights, even more than just human rights, but also women's rights. They're more often subjected to this therapy. It's a therapy that helps, sometimes leaves or leaves certain consequences. It's primarily a professional question. This is a decadent position, and this is Article 55, I hope to well interpret it, that this person must give written consent. So no one can be given electroconvulsive therapy without giving consent. That's very important. So written consent, not the oral consent of the person over whom it will be executed, by the fact that it takes three prior conditions to be satisfied, and the first is that it is in the best interest, etc., that it is really necessary. Examples have been made here. Some colleagues have said quite correctly that some psychiatric institutions have practically become non-stational institutions, rather than asylum. I miss it here, it's my remark, I didn't make the amendment, because apparently I see that there's no Ministry preparedness, I don't mean anything negative by it, but I don't see the current willingness to go so far in law. I really think it's my professional opinion that the law should limit the length of time someone can spend in a psychiatric institution. When someone's ten years in a psychiatric facility, please, it has nothing to do with the treatment anymore, it's a social case, the family won't go back, there's nowhere to go. It's the degradation of psychiatric, psychological help. It's the degradation of this facility. It's not her fault. Society can't solve, push there, and it's not right for that person either, but it's not for those who need to take care of that person. I think the law should limit how much can be done in such a facility. You need to have a commitment. However, there are audits here in the law. It must be more common and should be absolutely after a period of time, let's say, two years, a year, difficult conditions for that person to remain in the audit. Guys, you've heard here in two places that you have patients sitting in a hospital in Covine for ten years or I don't know where. As a student, I saw it for the first time, and I was in shock. That's completely pointless. No one can be in the hospital for ten years, because society says we don't know what to do with him. That's not an answer. That facility doesn't serve to hold someone. It's a social case now. In another way, it had to be solved. It was meant to be solved so that the person was under surveillance, to receive adequate medical treatment, to have someone to worry about. What comes out of it and for me it's very important, I end up with, it's necessary that, not only to limit... Let me tell you right now that I didn't say it - there are no electroconvulsive treatments in all countries. As far as I know, Slovenia has banned it. So you don't get confused. Slovenia has banned it. Slovenia has not had this therapy since 1995. So it's the same thing here. You have to limit the length of the hospitalization, make it difficult, make it practically too long. I think the law was supposed to, and I know there's no money, I know everybody's gonna jump, some new institutions. Everyone here was talking about social psychiatry. She even spoke to a co-worker who is against the law and her parliamentary group will not vote, a DSS counterpart, also a psychiatrist, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, and she said something about the social psychiatry. Only in that part do I agree with her. Perhaps this law should have introduced the very obligation of forming, I don't know, that probably in a network of health institutions, that should be done elsewhere, but perhaps here to stress that it is precisely those institutions that would have been able to re-evaluate as much as possible and slowly bring people back to the middle from which they were ripped out nine, ten, five or seven years ago. Once upon a time I did a film, it doesn't matter, he even won a prize, a team that worked with me, at a psychiatric facility in Yugoslavia, it's in another republic today. There happened an unusual thing, with me ending up, optimistic. There came a man who had nothing to do with psychiatry. Then he noticed, since he's a good man, that there's a lot of patients who aren't really patients anymore, they're not for that hospital. He rented a bus, put them inside and went from house to house to bring them home. We recorded with the camera what was going on. It's terribly shaken. We went with them and he brought those people home. He came and said -- here, we return it to you, no need, he's no longer sick, and, of course, that movie best showed that most of these people are just social cases, that they won't be accepted by family and environment. We have to stop that. I think that this law is the first important step towards regulation, to protect the mental health of citizens of this country in a way that, I would say, determines not only the possibility of abuse, but above all the rights of those people who are often severely endangered in every society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-10-0.u15757	Thank you. Since there are no more entries for the word, I'm concluding a joint principle search. We continue our work on Tuesday, May 14th at 10:00 p.m.
