ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13590	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since today is the day for asking for information and explanations, on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13591	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Culture. This year is the 900th anniversary of Stefan Nemanje's birth without anyone answering for it. It's just amazing how little is said of him, as the great patron of our church and founder of Hilandar. In addition, Stefan Nemanja was one of the most resourceful politicians and statesmen in our history. He was able to judge when to fight, when to withdraw, who and how to build partnerships. In doing so, Stefan Nemanja is the founder of the sacred line of Nemnjiæ, the most significant family of Serbian medieval statehood. If, for example, the Americans had a chance like this, they'd spend a whole year marking a cultural event like this, of course, only if they had the chance to have this kind of national treasure. On the other hand, the media is full of celebrations and celebrations of Milan's edict and Roman Emperor Konstantin, a Roman. I don't mind. Of course, it should be celebrated. But why do we keep neglecting our own, whether it's Stefan Nemanja or, say, the Crown Prince Alexander Karadjordjevic? Shall we, as a people, mention that silver fork that we allegedly ate while Europe was eating with its fingers until the end of the day. I think that kind of interpretation just shows how tragic and ridiculous we are at the same time. At the same time, due to its own neglect towards its own heritage, the monuments of our most famous writers, painters, thinkers and other great people from our history are crumbling throughout Serbia. I would add that, for those who may not know, and they are full of the mouth of the Milan edic, that this same Milanic edict guarantees freedom of religion for all citizens of any religion, they are forbidden to pursue Christians and they are given civil rights, etc. However, what is particularly interesting in this story is the fact that this edict was ordered to return the confiscated property of Christians. What have we done all this time? I'll just remind you that was, as I would say, barbaric weather. Today, by celebrating this edict, we still haven't returned to the people the communists stole from the citizens, the Christians, since 1945. A year. This only shows the degree of hypocrisy when it comes to our path to the European Union, but also when it comes to our relationship with historical heritage. My question will be, of course, very simple – what is the Ministry of Culture willing to do to prevent, I would say, the decades-long decline of our cultural and historical heritage? I would take advantage of the opportunity, how much time it allows me to congratulate all the boards of the Serbian Renewal Movement on 23 years of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13592	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13593	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, I would like to appoint and receive a notice from the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Goran Knezevic. My question concerns registration or renewal of registration, which is scheduled to take place from February 25th to March 31st, so it stands out in a few weeks. I'd like to get a heads-up, since we read in information that the villages are threatened by divorces. Under this law, some communities in Vojvodina, but I believe in other parts of Serbia, are also announcing mass divorces due to new rules on the registration of agricultural land. The reason is a regulation whereby spouses cannot have two separate agricultural holdings. We know well that there will be a problem with that, because people took loans, they took an arena of 100 hectares, so that, simply, people were brought into an unenviable position, or they would have to divorce, that husband and wife would register agricultural land, or, if they were already spouses, they could register only one land. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture to tell me if and what would he advise farmers to do in this situation? Mera's brought an ad hoc. It's not happening in Europe. Maybe it's a good measure because, simply, it may have brought some negativity, that both husband and wife were registered specifically, but it should have been prepared, that it might be announced, that people should be prepared to say, well, in two years you have to settle these loans because in the future, in two years or in three years and a half, you won't be able to register especially both husband and wife. I would also ask the same Minister of Agriculture, we know well, I have cases that large agricultural cooperatives cannot register and cannot get incentives and subsidies because they process 300 hectares. But those workers force their workers to register and then their workers receive subsidies which, I say, the owners of these cooperatives take from their workers. I'm interested - did and how many applications and abuses of the Ministry of Agriculture, to whom it belongs, have the jurisdiction of agricultural inspections, registered so far, and it concerns the very abuse of cooperative owners registering their own agenda or their own country on their workers? Vojvodina, since he has no jurisdiction in the agricultural inspection, can't register it, so I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister, to answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13594	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13595	Dear Mr Vice President, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, my question, that is one finding, and in some way an answer to one of the fellow Members of Parliament who has asked one question before me. So it's a possible state, so to speak, to mark a jubilee, and that's 900 years since Simeon the Peacekeeper was born. I see that one colleague, I don't know if he followed New Serbia's activities in parliament, asked the same question. So New Serbia took Simeon the Peacekeeper as a saint, a protector. Of course, the importance of the Serbian country's country and statehood exceeds the frameworks of a political party and that the celebration of 900 years since its birth should be organised at the state level. I would like to say one more thing briefly on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, Mrs Dubravka Filipovski, a question that Zika Gojkovic asked today, asked exactly 10 days ago. I do not wish to amnesty in advance of the Minister of Culture, Mr. Petkovic, but it would be fair to respect the legal, business deadline of 15 days and to have the answer to that question together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13596	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13597	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, for these days we are witnessing something that, if you were rude, you would be a disgrace to the state, and these are statements by the President of the State, Mr Nikolic and the Prime Minister of Mr Dacic. We are witnessing that after a meeting in Brussels with Catherine Ashton that Mr. Nikolic said cocoa had eased, that the deal was near, that the next day he would be denied by the prime minister who said he was far from the agreement Serbia and that we would not at all be in Europe. Then President Nikolic went to Minsk, and there made a new statement that is closer to the prime minister than that of his first. What's this about? Does that leave a good picture of Serbia and its leadership? Certainly not. That's why we're not happy. I don't know who's telling the truth or who's telling the truth. Is there anyone out there trying to mince a possible agreement, is there one that says the agreement is near or one that says that the agreement is far away? It's a brief introduction to what will be the essence of my question. It is possible that all of this was created by this galamatias statement, this shaman following that statement by Mr Dacic at the end of last week -- that it was lied about Kosovo being ours. My question will be more about that statement than about what's going on, because what's going on is we'll probably find out before the deadline expires to answer the parliamentary question. So, it was lied that Kosovo was ours. The grammar, as you know, if we look back on the grammar, it's used passively. Passive says there's no subject. Who lied that Kosovo is our essential thing for this statement. It's okay, I know who didn't lie. I may think I know who you lied to, but I think it's very important for the citizens of Serbia to determine which one lied that Kosovo is ours, if that's already said by the prime minister. Did Kenan Hajdarevic, for example, lie? Did he lie to the Pope? Messi? Sir Allen Ferguson? Bulgaria's president? President of Macedonia? Milo Djukanovic? Who lied? Or perhaps those behind the constitution, Nikolic, Vukic, Dacic, Tadic and not to count further. It is very important for citizens to determine who lied because it also gives rise to responsibility for lying. What was the lie? That's the second question and motive for lying. Is the motive for Kosovo to stay because lies can happen or motive is something else, to get some votes, and something else comes out of the voices. I think that the prime minister who insists on showing up to parliament, unlike his colleague with a badge that appears in the Kosovo parliament after each Brussels talks and reports, I think of Thaci. While we wait for the prime minister to show up, I don't know when we'll be waiting for him, I believe there are some among you who prefer to see him, but we should answer those lies about Kosovo and why were they lying and when they lied? Did you ever sign the Kumano Treaty? When was the agreement reached on the Covic-Hekerup constitutional framework? When Kosovo unanimously declared independence? Did the International Court of Justice say that the Declaration of Independence did not violate international law? When did Brussels and I write a resolution adopted by the General Assembly that accepted the opinion of the International Court of Justice? When did the dialogue begin? When it was lying and why was it lying and above all who was lying? Without clearing things up from the past, you'll understand and know from experience, there's no happy future. Thaci and Dacic hang out, agree, see what they agreed, and there is no progress in relations between Serbs and Albanians living in Kosovo. Isn't the goal of the dialogue, I don't know, tomorrow the president of Serbia, the president of Croatia, is to relax relations between people living in these two countries. It's because of this lie that we're standing in place. It's urgent to say the Prime Minister without a passport - we lied, they lied, not lied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13598	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13599	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I question the government of the Republic of Serbia and the restitution. Why does the Agency for the Restitution of Parties in the procedure of restitution whose request relates to parcels covered by the Commissation request to apply, in addition to the request, a copy of the immovableity register, i.e. the credentialisation of the cadastral plot of the old and new diameter, when Article 42(2) of the Return Act exempts the cadastral parcels for which the commission was carried out? I'll try to explain this a little bit. In particular, in the territory of the municipality of Žitište the Katastrian municipality of Begejica in 1982, a solution was made on the implementation of a commission for the commercial area of Begejci Catastar municipality, published in the Intermunic "Official Journal of Zrenjanin" No. 15 of 1982. After a complete submission of the request and certified photocopies of this solution, the agency continues to seek the identification of parcels even though the entire catastrian municipality has been subdued by compatriation. I would also like to point out, if there were no confusion, the Agency for Restitution is doing extremely effectively, at least by what the citizens I've talked to about this with, the only thing that creates the problem is this very question. So why continue to seek identification for the parcels that have passed the commission, because one parcel has seen as many as three changes, if the law does not require it when it comes to membership, and I ask that this issue be clarified to me so that I can clarify to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13600	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13601	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, we have witnessed the last weeks and months of very live political activities on the Berlin-Brisel-Belgrade-Pristina route. So we're just silent witnesses, because we're very little and we're misinformed about it. So, both as the public of Serbia and as this parliament, regardless of what is the government's principle obligation to report regularly and crediblely to both parliament and the public, and regardless of what is required by that resolution, which you have all adopted to inform parliament about for a certain period of time during these talks. We have a parliament that is mostly quietly experiencing and accepting what is happening, except sometimes someone from the opposition, like me now, asks a question. So the ideal situation of silence and silence has been achieved, neither the Kosovo and Metohija Committee discusses this Belgrade-Pristina dialogue and these living activities. I can tell you who doesn't know and who isn't a member of the board maybe doesn't know that the board hasn't put the subject on the agenda in the last five months. He also put the topic on reports from the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and on the survey committee to examine the funds spent on Kosovo and Metohija and on the human rights of refugees, etc., the only topic is not this conversation. So much for our information. What we hear from the participants in these conversations is contradictory. So, not only do we compare the statements of representatives of Belgrade and Pristina, but the opposite if we compare the statements of representatives from Belgrade, so, our authorities, and even if we compare the statements of one of the same representatives from Belgrade, for example. Prime Minister. On March 4th, he said there was no movement in the conversation, and on March 5th, he said there was a shift in the conversation. After these talks with Catherine Ashton in Brussels, one said Pristina had caved, and the other said Pristina had failed. Then we read cabinet statements by Catherine Ashton, who are not at all talking about giving in or not giving in, not talking about what is important, that Serbs get autonomy in this independent Kosovo, which the government is very much in favour of, etc. She's just saying it's agreed to speed up the process. That's the essence of the press release from Catherine Ashton's office. She has until April 6th or 16th to complete it and to deal with other important matters rather than issues of Belgrade and Pristina's relations. Finally, we learn from Pristina what is happening and, unfortunately, it suits the truth most, not because we love Hashim Thaci from the opposition, on the contrary, but because Albanians are getting these negotiations and then they can speak freely about what it is actually about. Every time Hashim Thaci reports to his parliament very neatly. You had a chance to read in the last "Seal" an integral report Thaci gave to his parliament. A few days ago, after talking to Dacic at the airport, he went to parliament and said what was being said. What he said was very disturbing, as always, because it turned out exactly after about seven or ten days. He said he had nothing to worry about, because the news came from America that in a month this agreement, as we can see, will be completed in Berlin. There wasn't much talk about it. At least not one of his statements to the Albanian parliament in Pristina has denied reality. What are we supposed to do in this situation? So MPs who are obliged to think about state interests, what should citizens do, what do they think, without saying what to think Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija when their representatives, representatives of their state and their governments are so insecure about the issue? So obviously they don't have a clear strategy, a clear common ground, or at their chance, so to speak, they're synchronised when they're talking to foreign representatives like this. There's one conundrum, one inconsistencies, ad hoc from day to day, from week to week, so what happens happens. That's why we don't even have that information that's valuable to us. Mr. President of the Assembly, it is a requirement for the Assembly to be reported regularly, to present the discussion report before this assembly as soon as possible, not before the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, but before the Assembly, because it is an obligation from the Resolution and to open a debate on it. So, at one point this process, which is very difficult, difficult and ominous, must at least be serious in terms of the procedure that the Assembly requires.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13602	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13603	Thank you. Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, some of our colleagues expressed concern at the beginning of the session about the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture towards cultural heritage and our traditional culture. Today I will take the opportunity to, by asking the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance, express concern about the relationship with contemporary creation and culture today in Serbia. A while ago, the finance ministry put into public debate the Law on compensation for the use of public goods. A public debate was held in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce a few days ago. I'm not going to go into the essence of that law, because I'm guessing we'll talk about it when the law enters the procedure. It is not disputed that this law should be passed. It systemizes fees, defines the basics, determines the obligation and the way in which the fee is determined, but why is this important today when it comes to culture? According to one already established practice, laws from other areas are tried, in this particular case, by transitional and final provisions practically derrogate and prevent other laws from being implemented. What am I talking about? In the transitional and final provisions of the draft law on public goods charges, members of the law on cinematography are removed, allowing a percentage of the Fund collected by the Ratel and RTS Radio-Difusion Agency to be deleted. Why is this important? It is important because we are in the year when the film budget in the Republic of Serbia is zero and, given that the Law on Cinematography, I will also read this because it is very important that we already have that in mind, it provides that funds to encourage domestic cinema are provided: 1) from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which it does not have for the film this year; 2) 1.5% of the total monthly subscription of RTS; 3) 20% of the funds achieved by the RRA, 4) 10% of the funds generated from the fee collected by Rattel; 5) contributions and donations and 6) from other sources in accordance with the law. So unless this provision from the transitional and final provisions of the law on the use of public goods is deleted, this year the Serbian film will remain absolutely without any way of funding. What is also important to say is that if the provision was accepted, the responsibilities of the Film Centre established by the Cinematography Act are lifted. The possibility is lifted that the Film Centre has certain resources, opening up space for only those film authors who have good relations with individual political officials to have a chance to get funds for their films. I also note that it is that we live at a time when the economic crisis has affected the world around the downsizing of the culture budget, but we are talking about the funds that are minimal, which only provide incentives. Without this incentive, our film authors cannot apply to European funds, nor in any other situation can they achieve the possibility of getting support for their work. I also note that the film is no luxury, but that it is an industry that employs a huge number of people in the Republic of Serbia. If we eliminate every opportunity to work, that's another cause for concern. What is very important is that this year the Serbian film has achieved perhaps the greatest successes in the last few years at world festivals. If this country doesn't understand that movies represent us, perhaps sometimes better than political dialogue or any political activity can do, that these films mean a relationship to our historical heritage and ask questions that we don't ask very often. As I see time running out, my questions are as follows: did the Ministry of Culture agree on the draft of this law, will the Ministry of Finance provide an explanation to the film workers who asked for an emergency meeting and ask the question and is it true that a representative of the Ministry of Finance told representatives of film workers – who are you to blame when you are doing this job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13604	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13605	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to ask a brief and clear question which, regardless of clarity, is quite complex, so it must be referred to the addresses of several ministries. This is because colleagues and colleagues who handle these issues say it is a big problem when it is referred to the government at all because it should be addressed to a specific ministry. I think this question can be answered by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. What's this about? It is a system known as the bus plus applied in Belgrade and encouraged by discussion by one of the colleagues today, and I was thinking whether the proposal and the introduction of the system stand for Messi, whether it stands for Ferguson or for one of the MPs in the opposition or position. I saw it wasn't standing. They stand for concrete people, and I don't think this is the problem that any party is responsible for, but that's the problem that individuals who wanted in some way just to favor their personal interests. The city's transport company, which is a public enterprise, has no use for this, but for a long time we have been having problems facing citizens in Belgrade. I'm going to ask a question about a particular problem. The employees of public enterprises have spoken to me several times with the question whether the Constitution has changed, whether all citizens still have equal rights under the Constitution and are all citizens still equal? I had a weird question, and then I said that as far as I know, the Constitution hasn't changed, everything is as you say. What's their problem? Their problem is that individuals from the ruling structures, the city's influences the leadership in public enterprises to force employees to use the bus plus. They do not have the right as employees of other companies to receive compensation for transport in cash, i.e. to pay them cash, even say they are being threatened by firing them if they do not move on to the bus plus system. Knowing the situation with me at the firm, knowing the situation of many other companies where employees receive compensation in cash, I ask those ministries who have the right to separate us, to give one of them privileges and to deny them to others? Why are employees being pressured and even threatened by firing in public enterprises to use bus plus services? If the bus plus it was such a good system, he wouldn't be causing any trouble. Just because he's causing problems and he's come across a disapproval of a great deal of citizens means there's something wrong with that system. That's why I think this problem should be solved as soon as possible and allowed employees in these companies to solve their problems and not to be forced to complain to various courts until the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13606	According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Velimir Ilic, the Minister of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milan Miljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism and Milija Djalovic, Head of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism. We continue the search in the details of the 3rd item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON SPECIAL TERMS FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE COURT OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES CONCERNED WITHOUT A CURRENT LICENCE WAS under the amendment to Article 4, which was submitted by Radojko Obradović, Jovan Palalić with correction and together by Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone else want a word under that amendment? The word is Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really expected you to take my advice. On the principle that the morning is smarter than the evening after you have slept over that you have truly realized that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure but unfortunately you did not do so, so here we continue today to discuss this Article 4. It's a bill of law. If the law itself is a legal nonsensus this Article 4 is the highlight of that legal nonsensus. It's a stupid thing to say in Serbian. Why is this about legal nonsens? This Article 4 has some things completely irrational when you look at that plan and the program that you've set out why you're passing this law. I'd like to ask, is this really about public interest or is there a particular individual or group interest in the background? That's one question because this article 4 shows that something is wrong and seriously wrong. You in this Article of the 4th Barata with illegal construction, with construction on other people's land, with transfer of ownership rights on land without conversion, although the subject of this law is merely the legalisation of objects, i.e. the registration of property rights over buildings and not on land. You in this article also have an expropriation in the private interest. You have difficult evidence that no court can accept in proving property rights. Mr. Minister, this Article 4 directly insults Parliament's dignity because by proposing this Article 4, you are in fact violating not only human dignity but all the established rights that Serbian citizens have regarding private property, regarding the right to life, to build, to property. I'd ask you a question if you really think it's enough to have a purse and a bow and come out with a bill like this? Obviously, there's nothing else in the background of this law about expertise. Maybe there's something else, but there's definitely no expertise. A law like this will have such serious consequences for the citizens of Serbia that it is really at stake by the one proposing the law, and it raises questions whether the one who proposed the law is aware of what he did. Mr. Minister, you to this member, therefore only this member, that all the other members of this law are the smartest, most consistent, most useful you literally tear down an entire legal system, one complex building of legal institutions. You question even the existence of the Expropriation Act because if you promote expropriation by this law in the private interest of what you do other than question the existence of this law which allows expropriation only in the public interest. If you allow evidence to be promoted such as payments for some utility services, for paid electricity and so on, how do you think you're actually reforming the judiciary and all judicial laws and that's the kind of cry for reform initiated by the previous government? Only this Article 4 shows directly to what extent you intend to modernise Serbia, to what extent do you think to make a distance to certain individual interests that have not once been dominant in the adoption of certain laws. I suppose this law will arrive sooner or later in this House where we will discuss its measures again. I have no doubt that the majority of this law will be passed, but when this law comes to change, I'm going to ask you again if you know what you're doing. Do you know in whose interest you are doing this because obviously you are not working in the interests of Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13608	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13609	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 4 to delete the article, and to review it, consider and take into account all issues and any assumptions that may possibly go to some abuses. So here I would simply like to say that the goal of the DSS is certainly that the building conditions for all builders are equal, as guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws, but certainly depending on the building, or category of building being built and whether it is built in a tourist-business zone, residential. Of course, that must make some difference. We know that Article 4 has been amended by amendments, with several amendments in the same composition. Certainly, our goal was, I repeat, to review the simple Article 4, in some part, to be amended by this amendment. I would like to ask a few practical questions, which should certainly be answered so that all the problems can be seen comprehensively and that, before the law comes into force, the legislator may have in mind what opportunities there are and may occur, and I say, no abuses occur. So, in that sense, it should certainly be the question that I have asked earlier – what happens if the facility is located on agricultural land? Therefore, it must be defined whether it will be subject to a re-application request for translation into construction or not, whether or not that fee will be paid. It should also be defined whether the construction of two parcels involves the parceling and making of a new one and how this could be defined. Or, for example, you should consider if some object of temporary character was built, for example, at the center of a tourist zone, for example, in the center of Vranjska Banja set up, it has, for example, submitted application for legalisation, for example, and pays for electricity, because it has some temporary number. He's already got two evidences he might be able to file for the registration of property rights. Will that be treated too? Or, I don't think you should, and that's certainly what you should pay attention to. The situation needs to be considered - if the land is already ahead of the dispute, what's going on? Can he or she have the right to enter property rights over the facility and later the land? What if the value of the land is greater than the value of the facility, then what do we do? Will we certainly allow it to be done, to enroll in the right of property over that land? The goal of the DSS is to keep all citizens safe, as my colleague used to say yesterday. I believe that all here and all the parliamentary groups speak in the same way, but each from their own perspective, someone from the perspective of local self-government, someone from the private perspective, someone from the perspective of builders, legislators, etc. I think our goal is the same to all of us, but what I would like to point out on the basis of this article and in general on this law, regarding this amendment, is that, possibly by amending some other laws on planning and construction, the state premiere and the cataster and co-operation with the Republic Geodetic Institute, we may have been able to avoid this law, where we will certainly have an additional bureaucracy, and on that later on, after some of the following amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13610	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13611	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, at the very beginning, seems to me to be ignoring one fact in the debate, often having a controversy with Article 4 of the original text of the law, forgetting that Article 4 of the amendment has been completely amended, i.e. the amendment tabled by a group of MPs, and I, among them, has completely amended Article 4. The government accepted the amendment, so that the text became an integral part of the law. This text, with which an esteemed LDP colleague has been polarised, no longer exists. For the controversy related to Article 4, please take the text of the amendment. The amendment substantially amended the basic text. I repeat, great gratitude to the ministry, the minister and his co-workers who had great willingness on the board to hear the arguments of all the parliamentary groups who were interested in this debate and that we are jointly seeking to improve the text. I think this amendment text has somewhat improved the original text. I don't think it's ideal and I'm not saying it's ideal. I'm not saying it's ideal and the law. I want you all back in some past that we're all part of. We've had this legal issue for decades. There's no government that hasn't tried to solve the legalization problem and none of them have succeeded. All the laws we've tried to solve so far have experienced a fiasco, I repeat, part of it because it's hard to solve, and part of it because we ourselves have been devising politicians, and every solution by the time the law goes into effect, we start announcing new legal solutions that we will fix and always stop. I repeat, the law is not ideal. The law will certainly be subject to constitutionality tests, as well as the previous Law on Planning and Construction, which defined the provisions of the law by the legalisation process. I repeat, we will never find the ideal solution, because if we could find them, we would have found them a hundred times by now when we were looking for them. Any legal solution that we will try to address the issue of legalisation of illegally built objects, which have more than a million, will be on the verge of constitutionality in Serbia and on the edge of the application of Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We now have two options ahead of us. One is to tear down a million buildings in Serbia. Is someone ready in this room to say -- let's tear down a million objects in Serbia or 500,000? It's nobody. Or we could try to take small steps and solve that problem a little by little. I appreciate that this law is a small solution to a problem that will first and foremost reflect for those people who must be most important to us all, and these are the people who have built to solve their basic life issue. That is why we have limited Article 1 to the application of this law to those who resolve their life issue. This is not a law for those who have large houses in attractive locations, nor is it a law for tycoons and those who have large business facilities. This is a law for people who solve their life problems and for people who achieve some crafty work in objects up to 100 square meters. Don't make a big philosophy out of him. We all killed ourselves, all of us blue breasts from trying to prove that people are the most important thing to us and how they live. If that's the case, then let's just give them a little help. I haven't heard from the minister for a moment that he said that this law is ideal, nor am I, who have submitted some amendments to which I have changed, I claim that the amendments are ideal. It's all here and there, but it's one attempt to make a step and get people into a situation that they can finally say -- this is mine, I have some perspective on how I'm going to solve it and I don't have a sword behind my neck anymore that someone's going to come down tomorrow. By amendment to Article 4, we have introduced a situation to protect the owner of the land. No more apriors of the situation, someone goes into the cadastre, registers that the owner of the building or the property is over the building, and then let the owner of the land chase him, so let the litigation solve the situation with him. No, we say, ownership of the property is entered, and ownership of the land when the owner of the facility proves that he has acquired a right to land by his own shop. If he doesn't do it in the next two years, then he'll have to do it for complete land, for regular maintenance of the facility at market price. So the total land for the regular maintenance of the facility at market price is big money. We also stimulate buyers and sellers to make arrangements in that time. In the end, this amendment also introduces what I think was missing from the whole law, which is a sublegal act that can also be further regulated and that some solutions that might be more acceptable in relation to life. So, at the very end, I ask you to treat the debate as the text of the law text that was in the amendment, because now it has become an integral part of the text. And don't talk about expropriation and public interest anymore, because it doesn't exist anymore. Don't talk about someone being kidnapped. No, it can't be kidnapped anymore. The owner of the land has to make a sales contract and deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13612	I ask all MPs to focus on the amendments in the debate. It's mostly a principle debate. I've tolerated it so far, but from now on I won't allow a principle debate. Judita Popovic, on what grounds? - Replica. ) (Judita Popovic, from the place: I am mentioned. You have no right to a replica. He didn't call you. Mr. Antic delivered his opinion on the amendment. So that's his personal attitude. (Judita Popovic, from the place: How do I not have the right? He spoke directly to me. The interpretation of the amendment is wrongly interpreted. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13613	If I've called you by calling you - my dear colleague, I've offended you, then I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13614	Please, he didn't mention you. Let me hear it, Judith, say it. Explain to me, please. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13615	I was misread by the previous speaker by stating why I think the amendment is problematic. He also mentioned me by name.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13616	No, I don't. I don't accept your explanation for the replica. You have no right to a replica. (Judita Popovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Sign up again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13617	Mr. Chairman, Article 27 and Article 107. You must closely monitor the discussions of each individual MP, as well as the replies of other MPs to previous presentations. In that case, you can estimate whether there is or is no reason for replication. In this case, it was just that there was a misreading of something that had died. It's just that I claimed there was a law, a law on basic property-legal relations, that you regulate construction on other people's land, a small door to the authorities not to understand... (President: Don't do the replica now, please.) Finish the explanation based on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure) This amendment introduces a new kind of solution to this problem. Let me finish. Mr. Chairman, I have the impression that in this way you are making it impossible for a healthy discussion to determine what was wrong with the whole law and, in particular, with this member. [[President: No, you're going to replica.]] On the basis of argument, the arguments can also be assessed by the public as we are right when we claim that this law, in general, is one nonsense and that the solutions provided for by this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13618	Please, MPs, the previous speaker delivered his opinion on the amendment. That's not the minister's position. You'd have the right to a replica if the minister had expressed his opinion. Therefore, it is his personal position and the position of his parliamentary group. He can agree with you or disagree. Based on that, I don't think you had the right to a replica. If you think I'm wrong, you can ask us to plead. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13619	Mr. Chairman, you've injured Article 107 at the moment. - the dignity of the Assembly. You claim the previous speaker spoke about the amendment. The previous speaker spoke about Mrs Popovic's discussion, arguing that she was discussing the original article 4, and he was changed by his amendment and amendment counterpart. Don't claim that the previous speaker spoke about the amendment, because the previous speaker, I'm sorry, you've all heard, spoke about Mrs Popovic's discussion. Please follow a more careful session or leave a seat to your dear colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13620	I followed very closely. Mostly the predecessor talked about Mrs. Bozanic's discussion. It is true that he spoke in principle too, because the principle discussion was Mrs Popovic and I did not want to interrupt her speech. So I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. We can come forward in voting day, if you like. No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13621	Article 106 has been injured. - the dignity of the Assembly. We don't discuss nonsense here, nor does the government tolerate stupid laws. I'm sitting here to discuss the bill, not the nonsense. Those who think it's nonsense can otherwise plead on this subject, without harming the dignity of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13622	I have warned that MPs hold to dignity, and that is the obligation of every MP. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) All right, in the voting day, we'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. On what basis do you want the word, Mr. Antic? (Alexander Antiæ: I give up.) I thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13623	I have carefully read the basic text of the law as well as the amendments adopted, so I will stick to them since this is a debate in particular. I have also submitted an amendment to Article 4 which has not been accepted. I have no problem with the fact that it has not been accepted, an amendment which is better is accepted, but which certainly does not change the very essence of the basic text of the law, as the applicant states. The reason for this is reflected in the fact that the final position of Article 4 and the evidence necessary for the authority responsible for enrolling the right of property to a person is entitled to property on the facility. I'll take my turn. In view of Article 4(1), regardless of the amendment which I consider to partially improve the text of the law, it continues to jeopardise third parties' rights and to promote private interests, contrary to public interests. In point 2 of this Article, it is necessary to carry out a completely one terminology of these legal provisions, when calling on other laws with the other provisions of this draft law. This is all for reasons, what counterpart Judita Popovic mentioned, above all, by the Expropriation Act, which determines that immovableities can be expunged or that property on them can only be restricted in the public interest, and that, established under the law, with a fee that cannot be lower than the market. The public interest in expropriation of immovableity is determined by law or by the Government's decision in accordance with these laws, and the immovableities are considered as land, buildings and other construction facilities within the meaning of this law. On the day of the justice of the expropriation solution, the owner of the exploited immovableity changes, and that's the so-called total expropriation. Article 3 of that amendment provides for the basis for the entry of the right of owner of an illegally built facility. What is a special absurd not only in this article but also in all other members of this bill is to use different terms for the same categories of objects. Are these facilities intended for housing or for facilities used for family housing? There's two categories of objects intertwined nonstop, essentially the same. The prescription of the grounds for entry has been carried out by listing the necessary documents to be submitted. This shall be stated in points of view of the last position of this member. It is unclear whether these documents should be submitted alternatively or cumulatively, so that the competent branch does not interpret this provision and that it does not act differently from case to case. A large enigma arises at that time, reading carefully, when it is necessary to answer the question – does the above-mentioned evidence refer to evidence of paid fees, bills, or concerns, as to how this amendment remains, of invoices issued? Minister, you and I and any of us here can get 200 bills and not pay for them. Betrayed and paid is not the same. So I think, in that sense, the same thing should have been done to correct this bill. In the end, what remains unchanged and accepted by the amendment, which again mentions that it partially solves and contributes to the improvement of this law, although as far as I am concerned, I am certainly in favour of eradicating such a member and putting a completely new one, is what is used by the last position of this Article - and so on. I don't know what it is -- similar, which is similar evidence, because it lists solutions here to issue bills, certificates, notifications, etc. Which means that the competent authority here that decides on the entry of the right of property should actually appreciate the necessary evidence and whether they are actually the basis for enrolment of property rights without any legal restrictions or party rights to appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13624	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm sorry. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13625	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Article 27 and Article 28(2). Rules of Procedure. So, this congregation majority has the ambition to pass this troubled and stupid law, and in this eight months, this majority is unable to learn Article 128, paragraph 2, that when it comes out of the O.R., it must take its MP card with it and not leave it in the electronic system. So, Mr. Chairman, whenever you notice something like that, and you don't react to the Rules of Procedure, in which case you break, you constantly fuck this Rules of Procedure. It's not enough just to bend the cards. The cards must be taken with them. Here, this isn't a duck school. This is Parliament. First, read Article 128, paragraph 2, and then teach him. No problem, if you want, I can read to you, but I think you can read. People's MPs are getting out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13626	Please don't react from the scene. This is true for all the messengers, lest they react from place, and do not let me say any warnings. I'm in favour of the cards. I don't want to be a duty officer. It is the obligation of every MP to take care of his card. Please respect that rule. National MP Aleksandar Radojevic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13627	I agree that the cards stand where they shouldn't stand. (President: Which member has been broken? ) Infringement of the dignity of the Assembly, Article 107. I ask the lady who found it to say by what method she found that the ruling majority had not been able to learn to draw cards this long when it came out. What method of research did she apply when she found that the ruling majority was unable to learn this many months to draw cards when she went out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13628	Let's get serious. Unserious statements should not be unseriously reacted. Please don't act like one. (National MP Judita Popovic throws out of place. ) He advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13629	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, I think that the harshest violation of the Rules of Procedure and colleague Judita Popovic in the absence of arguments violates the Rules of Procedure by unfoundedly accusing anyone of not carrying a card with him. We hear that more than once. It's really not appropriate on her part that whenever there's no argument to use these means and to accuse the Rules of Procedure not to carry their cards with them. I think the most severe violation of the Rules of Procedure is saying that this isn't a duck school, etc. It's really not right on her side, and we expect an apology from her when it comes to that thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13630	Radenkovic, I think you know very well that the violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be carried out by the chairman. You alluded that Judita Popovic hurt her. It's her right to talk. It's my duty to follow that. If someone made a mistake and hurt the Rules of Procedure, it's me. There's no basis for hurting the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure Zoran Ostojić, then Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13631	Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to follow a little more closely. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dignity, Article 107. Did the SNS MP say he really agrees with the fact that the cards are standing where they shouldn't be? He admitted it was happening. Then Mr. Radenkovic answers and says Judita Popovic unfoundedly accuses the cards have been drawn. The MP, Mr. Radenkovic, admitted that the cards are where they shouldn't be. I don't understand. Now someone's turned on when you guys started talking... I don't want to mention anything except what method. By repetitive method, "repecitation from the mother studio manager." We'll warn you. You'll learn by the end of your term. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13632	I don't think this leads to anything anymore. We're discussing trivial matters and it's inconclusive to me. Judita Popovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Press again. The system's broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to call an officer. 27th and 107th. Those two members are breaking again. I would really suggest that you pay attention when you deny the MP a word. You are constantly denying the word to me to plead to all those inaccuracies and those lies that are being brought here about my discussion. My discussion was also how she had an argument and how she referred to the debate in particular and how she referred to Article 4. To say that I was naked with my eye, simply by seeing the state of things on the spot, I realized that the cards are still here where the MPs should be. But there is no messenger. Do these cards represent MPs by being in an electronic system or on a table in a visible place? Are they messengers instead of messengers? Do we actually have MPs or do we have chairs? That's a basic question, and you'd do well to read the whole of article 128.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13634	I ask the MPs to put away their cards, not to challenge them. Please lower your cards so they don't see each other. I'm asking the service to remove these cards that are sticking out of the MPs' units. I will read to you Article 128, which reads – if the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP's unit, that is, his identification card of the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver that card to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. The card will be the People's MP upon entry into the O.R. I'm right not to be seen here if the MP is absent. (National Ambassador Marijan Risticevic, from the post: This should work. We can't touch those cards. ) Mr. Risticevic, you have the custom of commenting without permission. Don't throw it away. (National Ambassador Marijan Rističević, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13635	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the post: You have no right. I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Do you refuse Mr Radenkovic's right to report to the Rules of Procedure, or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13636	I gave you my word. Nedjo Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13637	My fellow MPs, I think it's time to get back to the amendment. I would only ask that, with what counterpart Aleksandar Antic has already pointed out, some facts, which we cannot doubt here, especially point out. It is indisputable that the amendment to the 4th colleague, Alexander Antic, is a qualitatively improved bill, and apparently none of the MPs question it. What is crucial is that the basic objection to this article, by amendment of counterpart Antić, has been removed, and exactly what is related to the alleged usurpation of third party property rights has been removed. What does that mean? This means that in no way is there any possibility that what implies an unimpeached absolute right, the right to property, is doubtful when it comes to the holder of property rights on land. On the other hand, it should also be pointed out that the right to property of a builder of an illegally built facility is a restricted right, that this right does not entail all attributes of property rights, which it otherwise has under the provisions of the Law on the Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations. That's why the controversy doesn't stand. Why? If the owner of the facility wants the facility to alienate, to be available to him, it is obvious that, in accordance with the provisions of this law, it will not be possible, given the fact that the facility has not been issued a valid permit. In addition, the restriction of property rights to the owner is also noted in the cargo manifest in the immovableity cadastre service. We all know it's a G-list, where the burdens are recorded, and that burden is exactly the enrollment of property rights on an illegally built facility. As long as that observation exists, the holder of property rights is not able to fully dispose of the facility, which is available in its entirety by means of alienation, i.e. sales. This sale is simply conditioned precisely by what previous legal acts have already defined, which is the acquisition of a building permit and ultimately the use of a permit. Therefore, this amendment has its own affirmability precisely because it protects third party rights on the one hand, and accepts on the other hand the fact that the owner of an illegally built facility cannot at the same time use the right of property, as he would use it in an absolute sense in terms of how this right of property is and reads. Therefore, in relation to Article 4, further controversy would be absolutely unnecessary, before the SPS parliamentary group had already called and responded very clearly to the minister's offer to make a comprehensive and consistent law, which is a new law on planning and construction, a comprehensive solution and offices of all the issues and all the dilemmas that remained, and it is doubtless that they remained, because much, much of the space left for repairing, especially those parts of the laws that did not cover, or had inadequately covered this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13638	The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that the opposition... (Nenad Konstantinovic, from the post: What was the chairman's mistake? Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured? Article........................................................................................................................... 283, 284 and 285. Do you want me to read it? At least give me the right to an introductory sentence. (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. ) Article 283: "The MP is required to participate in the work of the National Assembly. The MP cannot be denied entry and stay in the building of the National Assembly. The MP is required to report his absence from the session to the president of the National Assembly. "When that story about these cards was often told, I didn't hear the president of the LDP parliamentary group report his absence as chairman of the National Assembly. I don't mind leaving the session, but it's time for Serbian citizens to know if there's an MP here or not, especially if he's the president of a party, so they can ask him why he's getting paid by a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, it hasn't happened here yet, and God forbid the MPs voted from Thessaloniki and Bodrum... (President: Please don't spread the topic. )......................................................................................................... and there was a vote when Cedomir Jovanovic was deputy prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia and then you were the same party with the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13640	I ask the Members of Parliament not to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to extend the subject. The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, followed by Judita Popovic, Nenad Konstantinović, Zoran Ostojić and Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13641	Mr. Vice President, I'm gonna change my address, Mr. President, and I'm sorry you're only in the O.R. right now, since Article 32 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and Section 3, which says that the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who replaces the President at the National Assembly's session, has the authority of the President of the National Assembly in the presidency, and in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, but there is no more authority than you. This allows people's MPs to be insulted by the largest parliamentary group. I am not obliged to listen to the insults and nonsense spoken by SNS MPs who are unable to extract their cards from the electronic system for the identification of MPs. If you're tired, if you want to replace the vice president and your coalition partner, clear that up with you. Don't argue with him here and bother the Assembly with your coalition quarrels with each other. We don't care about that. We're here to work in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. If you want some other rules, which is imposed by Mr. Nikola Savic of the Department of Justice, where he hangs snipers, so he thinks he's gonna run this room by the one who's got the bigger sniper, better muscles, you're up against the right opponent. You've never beat a muscle on snipers, so you won't win now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13642	What I could see by following the session was that there was a problem with the cards that were in the parliamentary units in places where there were no MPs in the hall. I fully support that every MP, as I do, as most others do, at the moment he completes his address or at the moment he leaves the hall for any reason, takes the card with him. I ask all MPs to stick to it. I'd like to ask you to move to a debate on the agenda. If we have a business debate all day long, it's not good for the National Assembly either, and I think we're talking about being absorbed. If we were to get into who is a dictionary and what he called and what he was saying, I think it would affect our full distance from the topic, which is very important to the citizens of Serbia, much more important than the debate on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I understand that you have the right to do so, but I urge all my colleagues to return to what is essential to Serbia. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is not essential to Serbia. Believe me, citizens will have nothing at the end of the day, and I think the topic that we're talking about is much more important, whether you look back on it from the critical side or support it. I'm really asking all my colleagues to get back on the agenda. I think it's a lot more celebular and for the parliamentary groups you represent. In turn, the People's MP Judita Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13643	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm re-advertising Article 27 and I'm advertising Article 107. So it was really necessary for the chairman to interrupt the MP who called for members of 283 and 284 when he advertised the Rules of Procedure. I would really warn and call on the ruling majority to review the Rules of Procedure a little bit, to read the Rules of Procedure a little bit, and then they will see that only the president, or only the chairman, can violate the Rules of Procedure. Some provisions concerning the rights and duties of MPs were quoted here. It's simply not the subject of advertising the Rules of Procedure. So, we don't get a word in when we answer, when we replicate, we don't get a word when we're justified in saying that the injured Rules of Procedure is injured, and the ruling coalition MP gets to advertise the Rules of Procedure, which is not even the subject of advertising under the current Rules of Procedure. You really should take care of it. If we are going to talk strictly about the members of this Rules of Procedure, take care of which members can get hurt in advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13644	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13645	Mr. President, I'm also advertising a violation of Article 27, but not yours, but your predecessor, because we just did 15 minutes ago on the agenda and on the amendments, and then it was that card remark, not the first. Then comes the head of the SNS parliamentary group, doesn't know what to say, I guess his phone rings, someone criticises him, and shows that the wolf changes his hair, but he doesn't. From pajamas and badges he comes here to give us a lecture, to say something. It's better, believe me, if you don't say anything, to let us get back to the agenda, than to blink like that, so what the hell are both of you doing? It's not good for you, for you Euroradicals who want to be polite now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13646	Mr Ostojić, you know what your colleague from the parliamentary group said – the violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the President or by the Chairman. So, when you talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, don't address the MPs from other MPs' groups and, in fact, turn your breach of the Rules of Procedure into a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13647	Just one sentence. We would have already continued under Article 4 which is the essence of this law, that the head of the SNS parliamentary group did not consider it necessary to say anything clever.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13648	Please, don't insult the People's Messengers. Mr. Antic's word is from the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13649	Dear President, dear colleagues, I would like to point to the violation of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in your actions, the President, and the conduct of your vice-president, because you have persistently allowed several MPs to appear after the injury of the same member of the Rules of Procedure. Article 103 of Article 2 makes it very clear – the MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. Mrs Popovic called for members 27th and 107th, and Mr Ostojic did the same. Mrs Popovic also called those members during a previous report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I must ask you to stop with such practice in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and simply do not allow such calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. At the very end, I am pleased that after my discussion on the amendment to Article 4, there was obviously no room for discussion about that member anymore, you have already fled to the cards and injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13650	In principle, I agree with you, except that there is one excepting element which the Rules of Procedure unfortunately does not define, which is that, if, in his opinion, the MP does, in his opinion, rejuvenate the same member of the Rules of Procedure after the previous reference, he has the right to indicate again the injury which is a new breach of the Rules of Procedure, which does not relate to the previous breach of the Rules of Procedure. However, this is another thing that is not precisely defined in our Rules of Procedure, and I will certainly try to give everyone the right to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I will also express the measures that allow me to do so and sanction those MPs who, from this moment on, are trying to abuse the right to call on the Rules of Procedure to try to delay this debate and I will be very rigorous in it, so we will see, of course, to whom it will be paid the most. The word is Mrs. Gerov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13651	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the National Assembly. You only entered this room five minutes ago, you weren't present, and you don't know what happened after Mr. Antic's presentation of his amendment. The gentleman violated the dignity of this National Assembly by saying that our MP group had no arguments after his presentation and that for this reason we began to debate the injury of the Rules of Procedure, which is absolutely not true. The vice-president of the National Assembly, who chaired before you, did not allow MP Judit Popovic the right to replicate after Mr Antic and the LDP parliamentary group had been disabled at that time, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to give their opinion on your amendment. That's the only reason we haven't discussed it at the time, and our opinion on your amendment will give you a chance to hear now that our amendment is in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13652	The word is Mrs Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13653	Thank you, Mr. President. You just threatened the MPs, threatened them in that sense...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13654	Which member, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13655	Normally, Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13656	You can't point to the same member that Mrs. Gerov pointed at right before you, because between the presentations...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13657	It's not the same store.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13658	I take your word, of course. You can't point to something like that. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13659	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13660	Tell me the basis by which you answer and which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13661	I'm reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've seriously injured Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13662	I can't let you talk, I'm sorry. The word is Mrs Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13663	Mr. President, Articles 27, 107 and the entire Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13664	You cannot tell the entire Rules of Procedure, you must specify exactly the members you are referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13665	Let's stop at Article 27, obviously there's a problem here to understand how many times you can advertise article 107. Mr. President, we are not given the opportunity of the president, or the president, to replicate. We are not given a chance to advertise the Rules of Procedure. What's more, he's threatening. You, Mr. President, just made a threat. That's how we understood it. Because when you said that you would specifically monitor which cases are being advertised by the Rules of Procedure, and you thought that this would limit the right to the word of the MPs, you did threaten the MPs. What is it, if it is not an insult to the MPs and what is it, if it is not an insult to the entire parliament, as well as to the dignity of this Parliament? You can do this on your main SNS board, but you can't adopt it...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13666	I give you a warning, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly in the most cruel way. I just want to answer you, as far as breaking the Rules of Procedure is concerned, first of all, it's not a threat, and you're trying to reverse what I said. I said, speaking to Mr Antic, that I would give more notice to the MPs of the ruling coalition than to those of the opposition parties, I would punish for what the Rules of Procedure foresees as a violation and abuse in the work of parliament. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. It's not a threat, it's obeying the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. If anyone in this Assembly thinks it is enough to press the key and report a thousand times for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and thinks it will block the work of this Parliament, I would argue that it will not because the Rules of Procedure have brought the previous majority in such a way that the president, or the chairman of the Assembly, allows it to sanction this kind of attempted abuse, of calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll use that because that's how the Rules of Procedure made it possible for me. I'm calling all my colleagues once again, so let's get back to the agenda. If someone thinks they can call a thousand times, I will not allow a thousand times to call the same member of the Rules of Procedure, believe that I will not, especially in the case that the chairman has not even called, except what he has said – please, you have the right to say and the next speaker is he and he, and in this is the place to look for a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. She's really gone. Mrs. Kolundjia, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13667	Mr. President, you've injured Article 103. In order for us all to understand what this is all about, and first of all, that you, as president, who should know best about this Rules of Procedure, know how you should act, I will quote the second position of Article 103, which says that the MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the Assembly that has already been pointed out to a breach in the conduct of the President of the Assembly. You didn't let me say what injury you did and you've already taken my word. That's how you broke the Rules of Procedure again. So you can't take away a word from the MP who, calling on a member, has the right to show you which injury you have done, not that, because you don't like that we are calling on the same member, you say – you have no right to call. So, if you understand the Rules of Procedure, and you would have to understand it best, if your colleagues don't, then you'd have to know that we're pointing to the injury you're doing and that we're pointing to an injury in your actions, not a member's injury. We call on a member of the Rules of Procedure to indicate that you, as president, are violating him. The most beautiful thing I ask of you, if anything, is that you owe an apology to the National Assembly for this treatment you've had in the last few minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13668	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, but the National Assembly will declare that in voting day. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13669	Let's get back to the subject. Velimir Ilic, when he proposed this law, had the intention of stealing land from the owner of the land by enrolling the right of property on the property of another person, not the one whose land is the property. Col. Antic was talking about his amendment, which had been accepted, having been slightly corrected by this member of the law. He is a little bit fixed and that solution that Antic suggested is better, but I think it's not good enough. So, we failed the amendments that were accepted to fix this bad law. This is one of the worst laws that has ever appeared in the Serbian Parliament. All parliamentary groups have given amendment to Article 4, all parliamentary groups, and the authorities and the opposition. One of the amendments has been accepted, it is the amendment of fellow Antića, but it does not solve what is a key problem. I think that by adopting this amendment, unlike the amendments submitted by the DS, and I was one of the authors of that amendment, in this amendment that my colleague Antic had a lot of room for manipulation, on the one hand, and secondly, I don't think this is the way that this amendment has been proposed in practice. I'll tell you why. So you're allowing me to sign up, to write down property over an object on your land. It was never in Serbia. There was no place in the world, that one owned the land, and you entered the right of property on another person's property. It is a repossessment, with this kidnapping being redefined, and it is said, "He will pay him one day, and until he pays him, we will not write this down as the owner of the land." If they're going to pay, no one knows, and it's not guaranteed by anything. Therefore, the text, which is now official, since the amendment has been accepted, says the owner of the facility will be obliged within two years to establish land for regular use. I ask you, what if he does not establish land for regular use? Then what? Here, it's been two years, the owner of the facility signed up, he's lucky to own an object on other people's land and never establish land for regular use and never pay for that land for regular use. So there are no rules. You have not established rules on how to end up entering property rights on land. You just said it - it can be signed in after two years. How is the market price determined? There are no provisions, now that the amendment has been accepted, as the market price is determined. What price will he pay? Is he gonna pay? What's he gonna pay for it? After all, if I own the land, maybe I wanted to build something on my land, maybe I want to build something on my land. Then Velimir Ilic came, usurped my land and built his facility on someone else's side. I remind you again from the principle debate, it's not 1945, and it's not 1958, that you're classified as the kidnappers, building on someone else's side. What does that mean? No private property. Mr. Ilic, we've changed the Constitution in this country and we've written that private property is intact. You can't kidnap people anymore. What you predicted as a kidnapping can no longer be fixed by any amendment. It could have been partly that you accepted our amendment, and you rejected it, without any explanation. You wrote – because the amendment of fellow Antića was accepted, and then you will not accept this amendment. So you haven't solved the problem. I think my colleague Antic and I agree here and he knows this law is wrong. He said, after all, that there was a possibility that he would fall before the Constitutional Court. So this law doesn't solve the problem. This law does not solve the legalisation problem because this is not the Law on Legalization. Why don't you change the Law on Planning and Construction and Legalisation, if you think you want to solve the legalisation problem? You're bringing citizens into even bigger trouble. We're going to have a thousand disputes between landowners and property owners, and we're going to have thousands of cases in front of a disaster that can't be solved, and then eventually all of this is going to fall before the Constitutional Court, turkey dots don't apply, in a year we're going to talk about this subject again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13670	Would you like a replica? Bojana Bozanic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13671	Since the DSS has also submitted to Article 4, which I've already spoken of, the amendment, for example. One of the solutions could also be what colleagues have suggested. That's why I'm reporting on this subject because, simply, the solution here is defined by the Law on Planning and Construction and we have the opportunity to solve this problem in another way, without the interference of this law. The alternative to bad law isn't laws, it's good laws, anyway. We should use existing legal solutions that say there is land for regular use and can define land for regular use and procedure under the Law on Planning and Construction. Of course, that's where the market price is paid, so we have simply defined those elements that we don't have to introduce any new complications. I think that there is a lot of free interpretation in this article, a very wide space for free interpretation of all those employees who are going to deal with and apply this law. So it really needs to be very precise to answer all the questions that MPs are asking in order to get the best possible solutions in certain sublaws. And someone said, and I would like to ask the question that there will be sublegal acts after this law, and in the light of the law itself, I quote - we particularly stress that the adoption of this law does not provide for the adoption of sublegal acts. It would either be good to change it, or just to know which of it should be made, because we're going to have really big problems. In one part, perhaps this amendment contributes to a slight change, but I would like to repeat that the alternative is certainly not corrections, but a really good law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13672	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13673	The amendment adopted by counterparts Antic and counterpart Rajcic solves the problem on one condition, so that they agree. If they don't agree, it's actually back to a legal solution that already exists. Now we can look at it the next way. If they could have made a deal, they'd probably have already agreed and the problem wouldn't exist. Like this, the problem is only delayed for two years. I think there is one general flaw in these conditions in the amendments, but the minister can handle it. Because there's no time limit for a sublegal act. The law enters into force on the day of publication and starts to run deadlines and theoretically if on the first day a request is made within 90 days, it must all be settled. There are no deadlines for sublaws, and the Ministry has to react very quickly. Article 4 of this adoption does not solve the problem. It opens up new problems, especially in Belgrade. What happens if the land is worth more than the facility? What happens in case the country, and there are parts of Serbia where the land is very expensive, that the value of the land is greater than the value of the facility? According to that logic, the owner of the land should become the owner of the facility and pay off, not vice versa, so Article 4 opens up the possibility of solving the problem, provided they agree. The probability of that is small or nothing. If they don't, they come back to the previous legal solution and we're back in the same place.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13674	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13675	I think this amendment is a good amendment for counterparts Konstantinovic, Rankovic and Senic, but he does not differ essentially from the amendments he accepted. I really don't understand where you see such a big difference between your amendment and yours. Your amendment is identical in relation to the maltene, causing the same consequences for the landowner, as well as the amendment that I have submitted. In your amendment, you say, at the request of the owner of the illegal facility, a third party from the previous position must accept the payment of the market price at the discretion of the tax administration. So you're absolutely bringing the owner of the land into a situation that needs to accept the market price. The only thing you're saying is by the assessment of the tax administration, which in this case will be an absolute assessment of the tax administration because such a thing will surely be signed by the minister by his sublegal act, because there is no other assessment that could be a reference in these situations. Your amendment is just a little more unfavourable for the owner of the facility. The amendment we have submitted says that in the first step he can enter into the cathedral property over the facility, and ownership of the land only when he solves the land issue. You're saying he can't sign up for property until he solves the land issue. So the nuances are at stake. I repeat, this amendment is very correct, but it is essentially similar to the amendment that we have submitted and it does not process matter until the end, does not imply an option of a sublegal act that will further edit the whole matter, and as such it is only not complete to become part of the law as such. That's why I think the amendment that we have submitted to some extent is different, but more comprehensive and as such accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13676	The replica of Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13677	Comrade Antiću, you can't see everything, or you probably don't see it, as the ministry could see all the amendments we've given. In some of the other members, we added the development of sublegal acts. But the difference is huge and the difference is essential. So our proposal is that no one can enter an object on other people's land. First he has to solve the matter of land. The issue of land is resolved by buying land from a private owner or by renting from local self-government or buying from local self-government. Our amendment implies that the land is first set for regular use, then a contract is concluded to buy that land, and only then you appear in the catastro and enter your property on your land. Otherwise, this law is not a law, and it is not in its title to enroll land rights. This is about enrollment of property rights. You cannot enter property rights on the facility until you have acquired land. If this variant is accepted, yours, which is much better than what Minister Ilic suggested, it is not at all controversial, we are again in a situation where we have a registered facility on other people's land but we do not know how this land business will end, whether it will ever end and whether there will be rights and opportunities for someone to pay, what will be the price and how the price will be determined. This part of your amendment, which says the minister will elaborate on a sublegal act to register on the land, the minister if he had known to work it out, he would have written it in the law. Now you're forcing him to do something and he doesn't know how to do it. If he knew, he would have written. Everything he could do, he wrote in the bill of law that was butchered here, and, after all, by accepting all the amendments the Ministry has accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13678	Replica. Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13679	I'm not going to play attorney to Minister Ilic, but we've been in the system long enough, and you and I and most of the people in this House know that life simply defines things and then we're doing them afterwards. It's precisely the function of a sublegal act as an opportunity for us to work things out through the regulation and play it out only when we enter a process. At the very beginning, none of us have a complete picture and doesn't see the first and last step. Now we all see the first step, it's going to go in some direction, and then life will give us some answers whether we were right or completely wrong. I believe in the Ministry and that it will find solutions that will make this law better through sublegal acts and through an additional sublegal regulation that will regulate the procedure relating to the resolution of property-legislative relations. Mr. Konstantinovic, I repeat that she is the last, final picture that ends with both your and our amendment, exactly the same. The order of moves is different for shades. I don't think this order of moves we've suggested may be cosmically fair, but it's in the interest of people who have apartments or houses from 60, 70 to 300 square meters and as such has this social note of justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13680	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the increased risk of hearing new data from my biography, although I see the spirit of Baron Mithauzen today is not exactly present in this room and I must say a word about this law. I think you'll set a voting day tomorrow, right, Mr. President? I call upon you who are ready to vote for this law to come adequately dressed, all leather coats like 1945, because those who applied these laws in 1945 to my grandfather and my family, my godmothers and citizens of Kruševac, a civil Serbia, when it went away, then went into leather coats. I'm sure those wearing those short-shirt uniforms probably have leather coats, too, so I don't think that's gonna go away. It's not 1945 and it's not 1958. I am grateful to the MPs who have handed over the amendments and to Mr Antic, his amendments as much as they have mitigated the negative effects of this law, but it would have been much better if you had accepted the amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group. When you look at this law, I don't know if it's written in a cabinet or at a roast shop in Athens. Wherever it is written, it will have harmful, devastating, aflatoxin effects on Serbian society. I'm hearing some throws. There's no need to be nervous. Just you at home nice on the leather coat...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13682	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive a pay phone and a payphone so that they do not address the People's Messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13683	So I see that there is one discretionary right left here, that some arrangements are made within two years. I don't know if you'll have time to do it in two years, since you're sure, but be careful, this is where the stenographic notes are being kept, this girl is here, and last time I suggested that they get an unfettered internship, when I heard some amendments and what suggestions people from the ruling majority are making, but there are stenographic notes and you'll see, I'm saying now, if this aflatic government doesn't fall within a year, we'll certainly have this law back on the agenda in a year. This will be told by the Constitutional Court, but it will be much better to tell you life. You're passing laws that can't be implemented, but I understand the need to solve the problem of illegal objects. This law does not solve, especially in a country where arrangements and theft are promoted. Mother dear, when the contract with the catastra service takes place and the bargaining and stealing of whether something costs 500 euros and whether some document is an ortho photo shot or a photo with a 500-euro note. I'm not sure that this is the kind of high-corruption law that solves this problem. I think you're strengthening them. I don't think that's good, and I think you should call on the words of one of my colleagues who said yesterday, if you want to change something in Serbia, you must first start to change from yourself. Start with these changes, but not with laws like this. Let me just tell you how this practice translates into a common folk language, when you're taking part in buying a hotel in Kopalnik, then the tax administration estimates that maybe a square meter of that hotel costs 200 euros or 20,000 dinars. When you want the tax administration to settle how much a square meter costs, it brings you an estimate of one ar at 45,000 euros, so you go ahead and pay, even though the market doesn't know that value. I think it would be better if you had adopted the DS amendments. All in all, I don't think the law will be good for our society, that you misrepresented it as the Law on Legalisation, because this is a law that will allow citizens of Serbia to get a congratulations from the tax administration and pay taxes on those parcels that they will have to sign up for nothing else. The problems will not be solved, despite the appropriate efforts of my colleagues from the ruling majority and the opposition, so that as much as – the effects of the law are mitigated. It's a good thing there are MPs, not just those ministry officers who put pictures of snipers on Facebook. It is good that there are MPs who read the law, write amendments and try to mitigate the negative effects of this law. Unfortunately, to mitigate the negative effects of the law on a society with 1,300,000 illegal objects, which have not only been created since 2000, but the history of these objects is very long, will not be possible. I thank you, and I invite you to think about it, before you press this "yes" button, because this isn't 1945.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13684	The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13685	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, PUPS, or MPs of this group, do not often participate in such discussions. We consider them non-portal and non-productive. For us, this is a lost time, especially a time when we need to resolve a question of a law that is a lex specialis, which needs to solve something that has not been solved in a long time, and it is absolutely impossible to solve justly. We are burdened by the way we approach this problem. This law has been in public media for a long time, accompanied by all newspapers and television. First, I must say, Mr. Konstantinovic, or you, that Mr. Konstantinovic did not tell the truth, we have not given any amendment to this article, but we support Mr. Antić's amendment and we believe that everything that can improve this problem to be solved, and we do not have much time ahead, you see for ourselves that every six months our work is being examined and I support the initiative to examine the work of all of us here. Those who obstruct the work of parliament and tell empty stories must once stand on their tail and point it out, it must be done, if necessary, to supplement the labour rule. With this, I don't want to say, to sterilise this parliament, but to make it productively everyone participates in contributing to the country's progress, because we don't have much time for a lot of stories. Neither the new elections nor the new reconstruction of the government will produce any positive results, unless each of us cleans up his own front, what needs to be done and in his head cleared up, what is important to this parliament and what is not. Finally, I would like to ask all MPs to respect the time of all of us here, and we will also respect this Parliament and make this Parliament more efficient, which is very important to us. Let's get back to the subject and it's a PUPS appeal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13686	The word is from MP Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure first, Mr Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13687	I'm sorry, Mr. Babic, but I'm very moved by the fact that I didn't get the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm advertising the violation of Article 128, paragraphs 1 and 2. A fellow who spoke so inspiredly about the abduction, and now you can look, before he got out, he left his card. So, there were so many attacks because of cards that weren't in MPs' units, they were already next to and out, they were wrongly placed, they weren't in function, there he was, coming back, there were so many stories about these cards, and we were asked to take it from us. I can't take someone else's card, I'm not the one who did it in 2002 and 2003, I don't belong to it, and I didn't know that a colleague would be back after five minutes, but his obligation was to take the card, because, I don't know, maybe he went to Thessaloniki and Bodrum.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13688	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13689	Mr. President, it is very important that you have the same criteria for everyone in this House. You've injured Article 103. A member of your parliamentary group cannot come forward and talk about something that has nothing to do with your actions, and that's called a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We also learned before you came, said Mr Arsenovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the chairman, i.e. you as Parliament's president. Why don't you warn as you have warned your colleague Popovic, give a warning to Marijan Risticevic who doesn't speak at all about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but about some people who are in the O.R. or are not in the O.R., have cards or have no cards. Please have the same criteria, because this is how you violate Article 103. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13690	Mr Risticevic spoke of something that really hurt the Rules of Procedure, which is that the chairman or president of the National Assembly is obliged to warn the MPs or the staff of the Assembly to draw out cards from those MPs who are not in the hall, whose cards are inserted into the identification system, i.e. the MPs, are in accordance with Article 128. Rules of Procedure, duty to take their cards with them when they leave the O.R. It's not a practice made by Mr. Milivojevic. This happened to him because he came out for a few minutes and I don't think it was his intention. Otherwise, Mr. Milivojevic usually takes his card with him. But what it seems, then, is a number of messengers who do so. That bothers the other MPs, because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I absolutely agree, because whenever I leave this place, I get out of my MPs' unit and, of course, I think all the other MPs should do it. I ask all MPs and all MPs to take care of our cards. Of course, do not ask any of you to draw other people's cards, it will be done by the service of the National Assembly, and MPs should draw out their cards when they leave the session. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13691	I'm pleased with your explanation. There's no need to plead in the day to vote on this injury, but I think you have to resign, because you admitted to breaking the Rules of Procedure now in front of the cameras.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13692	Whether I broke the Rules of Procedure or not, I didn't answer. I said there's a basis why Mr. Risticevic asked for it. As to whether or not I have broken the Rules of Procedure, you have now said that you are satisfied, so there is no need for the Assembly to plead, but, of course, we can always plead. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13693	When we talk about this amendment, I can't talk about the shirts, I don't have it, I don't believe it has a large enough number and I don't see any connection. I do not see any connection or aflatoxin with the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, except that in these facilities that are completed, and illegal, living people who are afraid of the untrue and dishonest campaign Goran Jesic against Serbian agriculture and Serbian peasants and Serbian businesses and the Serbian state, in the end, the whole. But we'll talk about it this afternoon and thank you for the suggestion, to leave it for a special session that will be called. Is this law good? Is he the best, is he ideal? No, it's not. There is no ideal law. Will this law have its changes? Maybe, I don't know. That's what life will show. I would also like everyone to be legitimate when they so pompously announce any changes, any bad things. The million and three hundred thousand objects were created before 2000 and after 2000. I cannot locate when they were created, because that information neither the ministry nor the state has any, but criticism from the people who exercised power, who had all the powers, who had most in this Parliament, where they could give any bill, if they knew better, why didn't they put what was better and what was the better solution, but they were silent, patient and carried on? (President: Please return to the amendment. ) One thing I want to say is that if you allow me two sentences and what really bothers me, which is that this law is deeply corrupt, which is absolutely not true, because all the objections that the Anti-Corruption Agency has had, as well as a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, all these objections are through amendments implemented in a law that we will, without rails, adopt in this home of the National Assembly, and whoever deals with corruption and crime in Serbia, the SNS has a view of it, zero tolerance, from the most corrupt and even the smallest, it is known where these people will end up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13694	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13695	I'll use the very short time of the parliamentary group. So, when it comes to this amendment, I think it would be good if that amendment had been adopted. I'm sorry he wasn't adopted. When it comes to criticism, good people who are self-critical, especially when criticizing their participation in power from 1996 to 2000, and after 12 years they remember to ask why we didn't do it. You didn't forget you were in power from 1996 to 2000, did you? (Several MPs of the SNS Group: Since 1997. ) Since 1997. You've been real since 1991, but it doesn't matter. It's a good thing that level of self-criticism wakes up after 12 years at some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13696	Anyone else want a word by amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13697	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really don't want to get into any political controversy about this law, but I need to do it again because of my colleague Milivojevic to read the provision of this amendment, or one amendment, which he says should be accepted and reminded of his discussion. This amendment says: at the request of the owner of the illegal facility, a third party from the previous position must accept the payment of the market price at the discretion of the tax administration. I repeat what I said at the very beginning that we have a problem that's been going on for decades. All governments were trying to solve this problem. This problem is difficult to solve and it is difficult to make a good and ideal law that will solve the problem. If that were easy, the previous government would have made him, she would have made him before her. It would have been made by any of the governments that have been so far. According to some of them, you have sympathy, and to some, I do, but objectively they have failed to solve the problem. And this amendment, as well as the entire text of the law, simply leads to a situation where we are trying to push the process. This solution of yours forces the owner of the country to sell its land to the owner of the facility. I must also refer to your discussion about the fact that this law will also be subject to the assessment of constitutionality. I agreed with that when we talked both in principle and when we talked about amendments. It will certainly be the subject of constitutionality because we all see and have practice behind us that maltenes are impossible to solve this problem strictly by respecting Article 58. The Constitution. Of course, it will be interesting to see how the Constitutional Court will handle the requirements, if any, of this law. What is only certain on today is that the Constitutional Court has declared an unconstitutional previous law, which has been passed by the government that your and my party committed, for which you voted as a MP in the previous term. It's the only thing that's a fact, so don't let us politicize this thing all the way because it's a big problem and it's hard to solve. Let's try to find a solution. I'm not from Mr. Ilic's party, nor am I a fan of him, but the minister has come as rarely as anyone in this assembly and said, "People, this law is what it is, let the amendments try to improve it." And I'm pushing for a try. Until voting day, there's still room to make this law more quality. The fact that the time for the amendment has passed does not mean that it is not possible to fix it with additional amendments, as it is possible to react through the amendment committees. I wouldn't mind adding to the text of the amendment that I have submitted, which has been accepted, a provision from your amendment, that market value will be determined at the assessment of the tax administration. There may be some other space for this law to improve. I appeal to all my colleagues to sharpen the discussion in relation to the law and try to find these touching points and try the law to fix, while we are less concerned with these general political topics and small verbal acrobatics that we are defeating each other for God's sake, and we are not making any use for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13698	Four minutes and 20 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The SPS parliamentary group is available for 10 minutes and 10 seconds. The DS parliamentary group is available for 23 minutes and 40 seconds after the last speaker's time has been used. It is my duty, in accordance with Article 27, to inform the National Assembly that when the debate on the search begins, it is not possible for the Committee to submit an amendment. It is possible in the course of the vote if there is a reason for the technical order and for the alignment to be a delay in the vote and for the amendment to be submitted on the basis of the agreement within the committee. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13699	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleague and colleague, I would like to refer to Mr. Antic's discussion, our fellow MP. Yes, this is the basis, we've had several examples in several governments. I remember when the former Minister, Mr. Shumarac, made proposals, tried everything honestly in private conversations and in public, and the assembly here was sitting in which I wasn't at the time, but we all know how it ended and how it went. What is there to pay attention to? If it comes to the need for the tax inspection to assess the value of the market, some countries, etc., I had, for example, a personal example where the estimated country on the part of the tax inspectors was not so valuable. When I was selling my land, my property on Užička Street, they ordered me to have an ar cost 200 thousand euros. End of story. That's why they cut the tax, etc. The fact that I sold it far cheaper, it didn't matter. So, I just want to say one thing, that's one way again to stick your fingers where honey works. So it's another source for people who would break the laws and get into some kind of corruption. So I would like to make a proposal, from experience again, that applies in many other cities of Europe. I will specifically say about Moscow, about Kiev, about Ashabad. Like, how does that work out there? There are official agencies that assess the value of real estate land, apartments, buildings. What's going on here? Three different agencies are being taken, and they give an assessment. The average value of these agencies is taken as a market criterion and thus solves the problem. So I appeal to you, this law, not this one, but none is ideal, it can always be better, we can vote for this law, and then we can fix, as Alexander said, whether it's open to open discussions, even though the time has passed, as you said, for submitting the amendment, but that doesn't mean that it's over. We can handle the president, i.e. Write to Mr. Secretary. You know how, it's like someone condemns you to death, and you don't have the right to appeal. So this is no big deal, we should try and find opportunities and not just look for the opportunities and experiences that exist in our country. We have so many opportunities, and also in our country for Kolias, for the sake of Lasava, work many foreign-known agencies for these estimates. So one of these is, Mr. Minister, three agencies give an estimate, and a mean, that's it. That's what tax authorities do, tax. On this basis, it is done justly, or let's say, the maximum possible fair compensation for those who either sell it or take it, so that something can be entered into the cadastre. I thank you, and I believe that Mr. Minister, as he has always been cooperative, will continue to be, and that we will solve this problem for mutual satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13700	The time used by the parliamentary group is four minutes. The SNS parliamentary group is available for 69 minutes. Anyone else want a word? The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevjic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13701	My colleagues and colleagues, let's get back to the discussion in detail. I'm glad the SNS MP said this solution with the IRS was potentially corrupt. We're not saying it's corrupt. We immediately said that the more discretionary rights there are, sublegal acts to be brought by the minister, not only us but also the Anti-Corruption Agency, that this is potentially corrupt. Let's go back to this Article 4. What is the essence of Article 4? The essence is the land on which someone built an illegal facility. The land on which someone else built an illegal facility. Article 3. speaks of the land on which the building was built, and the land and the property, and the fourth is the building, and the other is the land. What is the essence of this law? That land. This law introduces the right to acquire property over land even though it is regulated by other laws, which it wanted to hide. You know what the key evidence is that we call it the abduction of a foreign land, we call it the enrollment of a foreign land in our property. How do you see that he wanted to hide? There's no mention of land in the title. The law refers to the acquisition of property rights over land. This Article 4 on the acquisition of property rights over other people's land. Why is our amendment better than Mr. Antic's amendment? Our amendment says – registration of property rights on an illegally built facility built on a catastrian plot that was co-owned or co-ordinated by several persons, etc. Only property over the property will be entered, but not over the land. It's a simple country to regulate itself by other laws. The Antic's amendment is better than the previous and original solution. In what? What effectively delays the agreement for two years, and in the original Ilic's proposal, it was that he who owns on other people's land immediately enters one solution and property rights over that foreign land. He'll do it here after two years. Unfortunately, it is an expropriation because someone who owns the country, who someone else built the facility, has to sell it at market prices, and what is it, rather than expropriation? You know that expropriation is done under the law and by the Constitution if it's in the public interest, and this is not a public interest. Antich's Article 4 is in some things worse than Ilic's Article 4. In that matter, it is better, but if we are still engaged in obtaining property rights over land, then that's what the legislator wanted to do, but to hide because he didn't put land in the title. That is why we are vigorously against the practice of this law in both Article 3 and Article 4. In Article 4, especially since it's someone else's land. What's Article 4 in? Ants are worse than Velya's? First, it was previously to prove ownership of an illegal facility certified by the local community about the time of construction. It was a crazy solution. He's not in Antic's amendment. Nor do there exist local communities everywhere and so that the local community knows when the facility was built, etc. Instead, a confirmation of the competent inspection authority of the time of construction of the illegally built facility appeared. So let's not get into how much it is, I choose the words, abnormally, that now the competent inspection body that's basically chasing wild construction, which is issuing a crash solution, is now putting him in a position to give confirmation when an illegal object is destroyed. How can an inspection body know that? That's the first question. It's potentially corrupt again. Those who need to destroy should now participate in the registration of property rights. The inspection body is now in charge of issuing a certificate instead of a local community, about the time of construction. What is the time of construction, when the house is dwindled, when it is covered, when the first plate is struck, when the horns are put on, or when the shirt is hanged, or when the electrician and ceramic are finished? I think it was better than this solution that construction times were proven with three witnesses, one of which had to be an electrician, and these two could be builders and carpenters. The construction time would be better determined. This is worse than it was in the previous version, and what I suggest would be the most honest, because believe me, neither the local community nor the construction inspection, better than those who worked at home, will determine when the house is. That construction time, it's a pretty long time. It's all potentially corrupt. The most corrupt thing is that it remains in this article the right and the ability to acquire property over other people's land, and the law deals with objects that are entered into the cadastre illegally built. Still people think, still Mr. Antic mentions legalization. It's only about enrolling an object in a record-based catastro - it can collapse and it's not by standards, because the notation without a building permit and the use of the permit essentially means that, and that's what the market price of the facility depends on, and that's what we think it's a fraud when it comes to these people who are going to give 100 euros. It's all in the first place to hide that this is about land, and it's about other people's land. So there's an expropriation left. It's even weirder the way the time of construction of an illegally built facility is determined and the original formulation has changed, and now I don't have a valid court on it, although the original formulation seems to have been better. So, the owner of an illegally built facility will initiate a procedure with the competent authority of the administration to assign the property to him in accordance with the law for regular use of the facility. This was in Velija's version of Article 4 and Anticjevo – the owner of the facility is obliged to its cost to establish land for regular use of the facility. The competent authority was asked here, and here the owner of the facility determines the land for regular use. I repeat, it's about someone else's land, because it's an illegal facility on other people's land. I think maybe this previous argument, yes, is because of that essential thing that the owner of the land in the first version could only sue the court of the one who built it and signed the property right over the land on himself. It will now be expunged within two years, but essentially, there is no change in that fundamental objection that there is no place in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13702	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is by MP Judita Popovic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13703	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of why the amendment of our LDP MPs has not been adopted is the reason why the amendment of counterpart Antic from the SPS has been adopted. What is the point of this amendment that has served as a reason not to adopt the LDP amendment, or that our amendment is only partially adopted? It is that the amendment of counterpart Antića is actually cosmetically regulated by an existing member who is proposed by the legislator and is in fact changing attitude 1 as we have proposed from the LDP. It is that illegal construction is accepted in this sense that property is entered only on the property, not on land. So that's attitude one, and so is our amendment. We suggested that the other views of this member simply be deleted because they could not be corrected. I am sorry that my colleague Antic is not present, and I am sorry that it is obvious that the minister does not care what I say about this amendment, but the public is working, and I need to draw attention to several important facts. Obviously, there is one need here to cloud the essence. It is obvious that there is a need to hide that in fact there is what was left of the original article 4, which is that, in addition to the right of ownership of the property, the right to property on the property, although it is foreign, all in favour of the one who has already built something unlawful. In doing so, he also illegally receives building land. The conversion, conversion of social property rights and from this social property to private property, which is provided for by one other law, the Law on Planning and Construction. It's simple, you're introducing lawlessness to a small door as a way of working. Item two, for example, serves exactly that purpose, so you don't see what you're doing. He says – property rights on land will be entered in favour of the owner of the facility, when the owner of the facility provides evidence that he acquired property on the property on which the facility was built. You know how, if he's got some legal business about that land, it's not about building on other people's land anymore. So this attitude was completely unnecessary to you. It is, in the opinion of the applicant for the amendment, cosmetically corrects the member, but essentially, it does nothing else. He says, until the entry into the right of property, that's in Section 3, on the property on which the property was built, the owner of the facility does not gain any rights except the right to pass, and that's what you limit it to obtaining property rights. Therefore, it is assumed that the right of property will be acquired and you will explain in Section 4, how the right of property is acquired, and that is within two years unless an agreement is reached between landowners and builders on foreign land, in terms of property legal relations. That means you're expunging private property, owned by someone on whose land someone else's property is being built. You are in the private interest doing expropriation and have not changed Article 4, as originally explained by MP Antic, and also supported by colleagues from the ruling coalition. So, the fact remains that it can be built on other people's land, that it enters the domain of courts, that it is no longer the courts that determine certain rights, certain facts that are related to building on other people's land. So, to make things even more cloudy and show how willing you are to incorrectly interpret something that we of the opposition claim that you cannot do, which is, it says, in attitude 6. - closer to the conditions, the way and procedure for the acquisition of property rights on land, will be determined by the minister by some sublaws. That's just not true. With this 4th attitude, you're basically doing this expropriation, and there's no more sublegal acts to settle. My colleague Antic was saying something about being in the system for a long time. It has been in the system for a long time, and Serbia is obviously having systemic problems. This problem of illegal construction, wild construction and 1,300,000 illegally built buildings are in fact just the result of this very troubled system in which counterpart Antić is obviously very well managed. And this amendment just points to the fact that it's not giving up. It doesn't give up on the wrong system that created this problem, which you say no government knows how to solve or knows how to solve it. That I trust you, but that doesn't mean that you haven't contributed to the problem and that you haven't increased the pace of that kind of urbicide since it's urbicide, this illegal construction. With a bill like this, of course you won't fix the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13704	The time used by the authorised representatives is two minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a national MP, Susana Spasojevic, who is an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Time is available for eight minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13705	Thank you. I don't know whether or not purposely, mostly, all the opposition speakers give an accent to other people's land. Irregular construction on other people's land, as if something was usurped by an illegal builder. We all know that there are at least a million cases in Serbia where there is no solution to the property-legal relationship on the plot on which the facility is built. Are you taking care of these people, who built buildings, their family facilities to solve their housing problems? They couldn't get permission just because property-legal relations weren't solved. These facilities could not even legalise in the legalisation process, because a member of the Law on Planning and Construction implies that evidence of resolved property-legislative relations must be brought. Let's think about these people a little bit and how well this law will do for them. Finally, they will be able to put what they have built honestly with their money to solve their life’s problems in books where property rights are recorded. Don't just mock the law, let's take a look at what this law does for most of the lawless builders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13706	The time spent since the authorized representative's time is one minute and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13707	Madam Vice President, I'm reporting for replication. She misunderstood me. I'm sorry, she misunderstood me, and I have to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13708	You have no right to a replica, you have time from the time of the parliamentary group. The right to the replica is the authority of the chairman, who, acting in line at the session and meeting the right of all MPs, makes a decision on it as discretionary. So, please, let's all read this section of the Rules of Procedure. Also, I ask you not to help each other to make it appear that the replica is imminent, since the same decision is made by the chairman. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of Parliament Dejan Rajcic, with correction and Alexander Antic, submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovana Joksimović and Ljuban Panic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13709	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I checked in before you moved on to the next amendment, while we were at the LDP amendment. You didn't see me, and then I was just shut out of the system. I would just like to draw attention to all my fellow Members and for the sake of the public, we have a valid Law on Fundamental Property and Legal Relations, which very well regulates the construction of other people's land. We have laws on litigation. So we have a valid court procedure that regulates how it determines how someone acquires any right when it comes to building on other people's land. The problem with this law is that you simply derivate the provisions of another law, in the wrong way, in the wrong way, with serious potentials in terms of the growth of corruption. When you have the opportunity to put a huge discretionary authority of an administrative worker at risk by allowing it to decide whether or not it will enroll the right of the property of someone's building and the right to property on land, in which case you are in big trouble. The court has a clear procedure to determine the facts, what evidence is needed and there is no choir, the procedure is clear. In this case, you do not have a clear procedure, and in this case very broad powers have those in whose jurisdiction it is to determine whether the evidence is valid, to determine the value of that land and, in doing so, to prevent the owner of the land from rebelling against that fact in any way that someone built the property on the land, that the price was determined by market conditions by some state authority, if it is not satisfied. It's an expropriation. If you're taking away someone's land, it's expropriation, if that person didn't give consent, if that person doesn't feel that someone has the right to take away his land, simply, it can't go against the law that you're about to adopt. You know how, the Expropriation Act predicts expropriation only in the public interest. With this law, you're changing the Expropriation Act. What is it if it's not legal nonsens? I think all the lawyers who at least passed law school are aware of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13710	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13711	I'm sorry, I just called, but you didn't see me. But there's no problem. I fully understand the wish of individual MPs and MPs to bring everything into line with the law. I'm not someone who didn't pass law school. I go through a lot because it's on my way from work to the Assembly, but I really don't get it right. I live in Mirieva, and Mirijevo is very close to the settlement of Kaludjerica, which is said to be the largest wild settlement in Europe. I am pleased that someone has been able to propose a law that will greatly help the people of Kaludjerica, and Kaludjerica is not small, that as much as they can legalize their facilities. Why am I saying this? If we are outsmart and we are forced into the end, as one of our colleagues said earlier that we were both in 1996 and 1997, etc. in power. That's right. We have been in power, but this is not a problem that neither the Democratic Party nor the Liberals nor the Democratic Party of Serbia have created. None of us are to blame for this problem. The problem is related for a period of back and 50 years. So I think it's very good for people who have this problem and for society in general to try in a nice, peaceful, democratic way, a civilized way to find the possibility that as many problems as they solve. Will that be possible only by this law? Probably not. But there's time, so we're going to do what wasn't right, and the law is a living organism, it's changing over time, so we're going to see what's wrong with some other government, or some other ministers, or the same minister and the same ministry will try to solve those problems later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13712	Two minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13713	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the first of the seven amendments that my colleague Vlahovic and I have submitted to this bill of law and one of the many who have been tabled by MPs of the Democratic Party. In view of the importance of this issue, the seriousness and resolution of this issue and the gravity of resolving this issue, the MPs have submitted amendments to this bill. The problem of illegal construction didn't arise after 2000 or in the 1990s, as there was a shooting and advocating here yesterday, it didn't only occur on Dedinj, nor in Kaludjerica alone, it exists throughout Serbia and has lasted for decades. As an example, I will name the problem of illegal construction from Vrsec, from which I come, and where I participated in solving this problem. In the early 1980s, many citizens were forced to cut vineyards on the slopes of Vrsakh hill and to build suitable family houses, which were necessary by area and by equipment as conditions for housing that they provided, because they were neither houses of 1,000 squares, nor provided some, I do not know what luxury. That's why in the 1980s, we had to change the general urban plan, expand the construction area, allow these citizens to legalize their facilities and enroll in their property rights. However, the expansion of the construction was continued, so in 1996 we adopted a new general urban plan that extended the construction area again. All those whom we have allowed to legalise all these facilities have also paid compensation for the construction land and since then pay compensation for the use of construction land and pay self-dependencies, and rightly seek to obtain infrastructure. Local self-government is required to provide all citizens with municipal infrastructure. If we do not oblige those who are entitled to property and who are legalized by the facilities to pay compensation for construction land, local self-government will have no place to provide them with infrastructure. Even in conditions where they pay for infrastructure security illegally built facilities is very difficult, because they are always citizens without an urban plan. There are no regular streets, there are no paths that can lead infrastructure flows and sewers, and water, and it creates very big problems. There, I had a need to point out this way, on the meaning of this problem. In addition, as far as the text of the law itself is concerned, except that this problem is not treated adequately, there are a number of other shortcomings, because the matter it regulates regulates contrary to other laws that touch the same areas and regulate the same matter. There will be problems in applying, when, as some colleagues have said, it will be applied, and I know that it will be adopted, because, of course, most of it will vote here, because there will be a conflict between the application of this law and other applicable laws. That is why we have submitted so many amendments and tried to bring a little bit to fix the text, and to lead to a certain degree of application of this law. Since our colleagues from the Democratic Party have submitted to the first part of Article 4 of the amendment, the colleague and I have only submitted to the final position of this law of the amendment, and I must say that we have requested that for the entry of a building for a family apartment where there are no public private documents, so it is indicated what can be proven, so it is required that certified certificates be delivered to the local community on the time of construction of an illegally built facility and the notification of the competent authority of the administration in the capacity to legalise the facility. Of course, this kind of confirmation, especially the local community's receipts, fall into some other time. Meat communities now function in populated places that we call villages in everyday life. In the city of the local community, they don't have that function, and at least to me, it's ridiculous to ask for confirmation of the local community. In addition, issuing such certificates leaves a lot of room for the subjective relationship of one who works in the local community to citizens he knows as a rule, because everyone lives on smaller territory, and leaves the possibility of corrupt activities. That's why we asked for these two attitudes to be deleted and instead to seek confirmation of the competent inspection authority. Our amendment has been rejected, but it is covered by the amendment of Mr Antic, which has been spoken of, and I am pleased that at the end of the installation of the amendment that has been accepted, in fact, our amendment has been accepted indirectly, and now all it needs is the confirmation of the competent inspection authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13714	Four minutes and 20 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Susana Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 4, which is added after Article 4a, the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Miodrag Nikolic is officially absent. When we were going to propose these amendments, we also realized the profession. So, it was supposed to be a joint proposal, and since I've already proposed to the First Amendment for Sports Objects and Sports Fields, I'm not a signator of this amendment, but I'll dare try to defend it. In fact, Mr Nikolic tried to comply with the law from Article 1 to the end of the law and make it as good as possible. We all agree that the law is not ideal for the simple reason that 1,300,000 objects are not created at the same time and under the same conditions and in the same way. So somewhere the owner owned the land, somewhere that wasn't the case, and that's why these amendments are quite large and large. I have this amendment if I were to explain it completely, there are four sides, almost half the law, it was extremely precise, but since Mr. Antic and Rajcic's law was passed, this amendment to this law was rejected by the government. I just want to say that this amendment, Mr Nikolic, along with me, wanted to prescribe which objects are being entered, which documents are needed. These were amendments 1 and 2. The amendment to Article 3 was in which way the entry of land and property was made when the owner of the facility was also the owner of the land or owners of the building were also the owners of the land. This last case in Amendment 4 is when the owners of the facility are not land owners. So, Mr. Nikolic explained it pretty well, along with the profession. I think the amendment was acceptable, but since there has been an acceptance of another amendment, I understand that this amendment cannot be accepted, because if one and the other solution were accepted, it would not be good. I understood the government's response, to the public, to show that the aspirations, Mr. Feman, were expressed by this amendment, were adopted through another amendment. Therefore, two almost identical amendments to the same article, i.e. with similar solutions and similar content, cannot be adopted. As far as I understand Government, if I'm wrong, let the minister correct me. So, in a certain way, he wants me to thank the government for trying in a similar way, by adopting another amendment, to regulate this area, since the law is really extremely complicated. It will also be complicated to implement, but the situation left behind and it is very complicated and I believe that this law will contribute a lot to enrolling, that things on the ground are in order, and if I agree with those who say that it is possible that we will adopt amendments and supplements, so the laws are not a sacred letter, this law somewhere is inconclusive, or if it gets stuck somewhere, the Assembly and serves to adopt, apart from the law, and amend and supplement the law. I also agree with opposition colleagues that it will be a very problematic assessment of the Administration of Revenue. I've had a chance to see for myself. For example, the Administration of Revenue estimates the higher amount of facilities in the village of Jarkoveci in the forest and allows the replacement, than the facility is at sea, at five meters from 432 square meters. So I believe that it will be in the Administration of Revenue, but since the government has changed and that this type of crime can be contained, I believe that in the future it will not be easy for them to assess the value of a property, or the value of an object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13716	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13717	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, as long as this bill is under discussion, we should stress that this is not the Law on the Legalisation of Lawless Objects as provided for by the Law on Planning and Construction in that section that regulates the area of legalization. These illegally built buildings, according to this law, are yet to be obtained by building and using permission. I assume by the new law on legalisation that should enter the Assembly procedure, as the Committee on Spatial Planning said, sometime in June. But let's get back to Article 5. It's a bill of law. Namely, in Article 5. The draft law provides that the owner of an illegally built building on a co-owner's plot could enter property rights on that facility without compensation for the co-owner of the plot, if the co-owner of the plot has not expressed his disfavor or has not objected to construction at the time of the building. It is good that other parliamentary groups, above all opposition groups, have submitted amendments to this article and have partially corrected it, so the DSS, as well as its amendment, have partly affected the correction of this amendment. It is now accepted that the owner of his illegally built building facility on a co-owner's plot can enter into the property cadasar only with the written consent of the co-owner of the plot. You can imagine the consequences of such a proposed Article 5 of the law in its original form, because they are mostly cases on the ground, co-owners, born brothers or sisters, these are mostly inherited parcels. You can imagine what a problem that would be if new court proceedings were opened. I think it's very good that the motionor had a hearing and accepted this amendment and thereby prevented in some way the devastating consequences of the original member of the 5th of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13718	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13719	The amendment that my colleague and I made refers to a time when it was limited that, if the owner of the land did not object, he would no longer ask. The text of the bill states that without the subsequent consent of co-owners, i.e. co-owners, the owner of an illegally built facility may be entered if the co-owner, or co-owner, did not object at the time of the construction of an illegally built facility. We know that a large number of our fellow citizens are on temporary work abroad, that we have a large number of nursing homes, where old people are housed either in their homes or in their families because of the care and care they need, so they were unable to object to the construction of the plot or were not present, so they did not see, during the construction of an illegally built facility. We therefore proposed that this deadline be extended until the application for registration of property rights on an illegally built facility. The amendments that have been submitted by LDP colleagues and which have been accepted are even more stringent, and it foresees that the owner of the land, i.e. co-owner and co-owner, must give consent to the entry of an illegally built facility, for the registration of ownership. We welcome this solution. We believe that it will bring more legal certainty to the owners of the plots on which the buildings are illegally built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13720	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13721	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have submitted the amendment to Article 5. Personally, I disagree with the explanation. The reason is that the amended member was accepted by the acceptance of the amendment, which was submitted by our esteemed LDP colleagues. According to this, what kind of explanation is this, I think our amendment could be accepted, and given an explanation to another group in the same way. Not to be misunderstood, I have nothing, and I have no problem with the amendment being accepted, but in an explanation it should be said that the amendment better regulates matter. If things had been better regulated and explained, then I would have agreed to an explanation. This could also be accepted by the amendment of the PUPS parliamentary group, and the esteemed colleagues would be given such an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13722	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vladimir Gordic, Radojko Obradovic, together Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Teodora Vlahović and together by Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Gordic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13723	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the law we have been discussing for two days is the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. However, one part of the first position of Article 1 and the full member of the 6th of this law we put in the exact same context those builders, those of our fellow citizens who built their buildings with a valid building permit. They could also enroll those objects according to existing solutions in existing laws in the right of property. First of all, I'm thinking of Article 97. The Act of State and Catastro, and point 1 of point 2). When we look closely at this article 97. The Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro and who has the right to register property on built buildings, we understand that the practical law that we are discussing today, or which we are discussing, concerns only art. 1st and 4th, which are also controversial. The amendments that have been adopted so far have been partially corrected by these members. However, I believe that there have been other solutions and other amendments submitted by MPs from the opposition, which in a far better way regulate these members. So, the law that we are likely to adopt today thanks to the position will continue to contain solutions that are anti-constitutional, as well as solutions that open the door to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13724	The word is a folk letter from Gorica Gajic, followed by a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13725	Madam Vice President, I'll go as my colleague Gordic went, since he took that very first sentence from me. The title of the law is the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, in order to cover the facilities built with a building permit by law, i.e. through the processing of members, but not until 11 September 2009. Of course, by virtue of Article 74, I will appeal to that member of the law, the Law of State and Cataster, at point 5, an object for which no construction or use permit has been issued is entered into the cadastre with an appropriate note. So, all these facilities with an orderly building permit could have been typed into the cadastre by now, of course with a certain note. Of course, we don't need to classify those citizens who regularly started their own building permit, who didn't get the right permission, because they also may not have had the money to build and obtain a valid permit by this date, which is foreseen by law. That is why we felt that, given the existing legal solution in the Law of Prime Ministers and Cataster, they were able to solve it and could solve it further. The DSS has suggested that this article 6 be deleted. There's just one more thing to say. Mr. Minister, the problem of illegal construction isn't since yesterday, that's what everyone here has said and we've been talking for days, it's been going on for decades. It needs to be solved, it's a fact. They've been trying to solve the problem of illegal construction so far, and they were mostly experimental laws, and mostly there were no satisfactory permanent solutions. In a conversation with the representatives of the catastra of immovableity and representatives of local self-government from the urban service, given that the law on the principle of volunteering, if I may say so, and is armed by 31 December 2014, not two years old, the citizens themselves will be able to decide whether to comply with this law if it is adopted. What if they don't comply with this law, because even so far, the existing laws on legalisation of citizens have not reported that these objects are legalized? There may have been 30-40% of them, but a large number of these illegally built objects have not yet filed requirements under the existing Law on Legalisation. Everyone agrees, at least the ones I talked to, that this problem should solve the state through its state project. One of the MPs here spoke – all municipalities have orthophotos. In co-operation with local self-governments, with the Ministry, with the Republic Geodesy Institute, or the Catastre of immovableity, could be held for six months, one year, three months, and someone said that a good computer and program acquaintance could compare the status with the orthophoto footage of the current situation in the Catastres and that each owner of the plot would be informed that there are two other non-legislized objects on his plot. Without this involvement of the state through a state project, believe me, in two years or 30 percent of citizens with unauthorized facilities, especially around all these unresolved property-law relations that remain, because a good part of them remained illegal for those reasons, and you will agree with me, the good part remained because of their unscheduledness. Simplely, they shake their hand and say – there were so many laws on legalization, so we always wait for some change, or some convenience for us. So, if we wanted this law, as it was mostly a discussion, to help social categories, people who barely made some hundred squares, not 300 squares, as a roof to their family members, then we had to bring a Lex specialis just for those citizens who had a house of up to 100 squares, who were poor, who couldn't legalize, that is. to enroll in the right of property, and to legalize. We had to help them with a special law, and separate from them business facilities, residential buildings with this square that could range from 100 to 1,000 square meters, to separate the buildings that were built on public land. Still, those categories needed to be separated a little bit, not classified in some way all in this law. Then in that case, it will be much harder to apply it in practice, and there we will get a stumbling block again, just for those categories that many of us are calling upon. I certainly advocate that first of all these people, poor people, refugees, displaced, who have barely built their houses, mostly on other people's land, do not care if they bought or were on public land, solve their problem. So, I expect a new law on legalisation in July, too, to see how well-recorded objects can be legalized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13726	It was used three minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13727	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not repeat what my colleagues have brought on the amendment to Article 6. And we suggested that article 6 be deleted. Despite all the reasons that have been stated so far in the discussion, I would add only that the provisions of Article 6 are contrary to the provisions of the article. 107 to 184. The Law on Planning and Construction, which regulates the jurisdiction of construction inspection. Such regulation in Article 6 degrades and devises the work of a construction inspection and reduces their jurisdiction, and I do not think it is possible to do so by one law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13728	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of the amendment, MP Susana Spasojevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Radojko Obradovic, together Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahovic, together with Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic, submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13729	My colleague Vlahovic and I have suggested that Article 7 be deleted. Namely, it prescribes – on buildings built in accordance with the law, which have been built up, built or adapted by 11 September 2009, without a building permit, the right of property will be entered in favour of the owner of the special work, in accordance with this law. I think it's a violation of the other legal provisions that regulate this matter because it does not predict the consent of other special parts of buildings, i.e. the owner of individual apartments in residential buildings that are built, built or adapted. As evidence, I'm going to set an example of the building I live in myself. Namely, I live in a four-story room and a fourth-floor neighbor asked us to sign his consent to break into the attic and make two rooms for the children. We had the understanding that it was necessary for children to have a condition to develop, learn and grow under normal conditions and we gave them consent. But when we saw what was done afterwards, because it was from the yard and we had no access to see right away, he built a roof and built another apartment like that. Now, instead of the two rooms you need to get to the attic, he's got two two-bedroom apartments trying to sell because he moved and went to another place to live. Of course, we didn't want to give him consent for this, not just us, but none of the owners of the apartment in that building, because without questioning the static of the building, could he stand another entire apartment that was built and without any building permits, urban conditions, and in any way, in the fraud of the other owners of the special parts of the building, came to one apartment. I think it's just one of the little examples, that there's a lot more to it in big cities, where people are less familiar and less able to control what's done and that it's really a problem just to let you sign in and legalize built-up and built-up building parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13730	30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Susana Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 7, which is added after Article 7, a new Article 7a, the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. The People's MP Radmil Gerov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13731	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, by amendment to Article 8, which submitted the LDP, were to simplify the procedure and achieve efficiency in enrolling property rights on buildings built without a building permit. By refusing this amendment, we have the opportunity to see that the government is not at all interested in the speed of enrolment of property rights over these facilities. The procedure is being re-complicated, difficult circumstances are again being sought, and thus it is being achieved that this law is not being effective. We have three days here to hear and hear from the minister that it is necessary as quickly as possible, as soon as possible, to enter property rights for 1,300,000 citizens who have facilities built without a building permit. This law is only in the process because 1,300,000 citizens did not legalise their facilities and only because 600,000 citizens did not apply for legalisation at all. We all know very well that the reasons why citizens didn't even apply for legalisation are primarily the amount of compensation they were supposed to pay, but also complicated, expensive and difficult procedures. What makes us think it's enough to just record the facility, and you government think there's two more procedures to do? Minister, I'd like you to explain to me what that means. Why are you looking for a record of the insight done and, if necessary, the specification of the specific parts of the facilities on the floors? Why is it necessary to enroll in the right of property? Isn't it enough that what you think as a government and us as an LDP is enough footage of the facility? There's a video of an object on the plot, you have a cadastrian plot, you have a floor, you have a square. Why do you further complicate citizens even this entry of property rights? Who, by this law, has the right to exercise insight? You absolutely don't know that here. At what cost will this insight be done? Will construction inspectors do this, some municipal administration workers, or will the owners of these facilities have to pay some special experts? It's not defined by law at all. That's why it's not acceptable for us at all, is not why the government has rejected this amendment. If you convince us here for three days that this law, which we claim it isn't, but you claim it is, useful for citizens, that it will be possible for citizens, as you say, to raise mortgages and loans afterwards, and we say it won't, then why are you making it difficult for them to enroll in the cadastre? Why don't you simplify their procedure? What is the need for these additional shootings to be done and seen, when will the citizens already have to engage a geometer that will record both the plot and the facility? We believe that any law should be applicable in practice and should be effective. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia still does not think that there is a need to propose and pass effective laws here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13732	A minute and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. The time available, as an authorised representative, is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13733	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, as I have noticed, has not been adopted, or the Government has not accepted any of the amendments that have been submitted to this particular article 8, and there have been good amendments, for which there was indeed a need to adopt them. According to this Article, Article 8(1) states that the application for the entry of property rights on an illegally constructed facility is to be submitted to the authority responsible for the entry of property rights on whose territory the illegally built facility is located. The application procedure itself for the registration of property rights, which is currently subject to application by the Republic of Geodetic Office, or the competent Office for the House of Immobilities, with the evidence referred to in Articles 2 and 3, is illegal, in particular because the provisions laid down in Article 3 of this Article do not regulate the evidence of the registration of property rights on illegally constructed buildings, or parts of an object. Furthermore, the use of the term, when it comes to some serious bill proposal, "if necessary", always poses a potential risk of corruption because it creates uncertainty, in general, that in the application of the law itself, if it is adopted, and I hope it will not, and gives the competent authority discretion to only appreciate what it is necessary for non-recorded objects. Certain additional evidence shall also be provided, including, where appropriate, the specification of the specific parts of the facilities on the floors with the attached sketch with the V2 sheet. You know how, when an ordinary citizen takes over and reads this bill, he has no idea what V2 list means. I think at least this term V2 list, which is not explained, you could at least specify its full name, and all to specify that particular concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13734	A minute and 45 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative. National MP Biljana Hasanovic, about this amendment or about the next? On the amendment submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13735	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I was a little hasty, wishing we could finish this debate, though. It has lasted, but it is really because of the importance of the subject and the seriousness of the problem of a large number of our citizens. The colleague and I have submitted an amendment to this Article 8 at point 2 of Article 2, where, inter alia, it is provided that, with a request for the entry of property rights on an illegally constructed facility, a record of the examination carried out shall be submitted. It is not said, nor does anyone have the right to carry out this insight, whose report is relevant to the submission and related to it in paragraph 3, says the owner of the facility is obliged to allow a smooth approach to the person performing an insight. What face is that? How will that be identified? I mean, it can bring very great uncertainty among citizens and as regards legal uncertainty regarding the very record of insight and of the person who can enter, to present himself as someone who has come to make an insight. That is why we have predicted that there is a record of the insight carried out by the commission made up of experts of the authority responsible for the registration of property rights. In response to why our amendment was not accepted, it was said that this would be regulated by a sublaw. In that case, although I think that the short text of the law is difficult to apply and we have no guarantee that this sublegal act will indeed be passed. If it is brought in, and if it contains such a solution as we have suggested, we believe that it will be okay, but also to move a large number of issues to sublegals will also extend the application of this law, because it will take time to pass these sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13736	The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13737	Thank you, President-in-Office, I would like to refer to this Article 8 a little late, but the amendment also refers to the definition of the minutes on the technical proposal, the minutes on the implementation of the insight where we have proposed to put the report on the technical proposal of the facility and instead of point 1. "stamps" etc., to make it a cadastral topographic plan, a video of an object on the ground for reasons why if we're saying that we need not double the costs of citizens, or that they have as little cost as possible, it is logical to use some of the existing elements that we use, for example, in the Law on Planning and Construction. With that in mind, so that they don't double-pay for making this video, the object, etc., if, for example, they're legalized, and we've heard that most of it's legalized, then why would they pay for this situation plan and this new video of the facility, we've already suggested that it be the same. I really suggest that once again the legislator pay attention, look, and take into account our desire and our goal, that everyone has equal rules for building depending on where and what they're building. Of course, I've already mentioned it whether it's a business facility or if it's a residential facility. We considered the record of the insight carried out not sufficiently defined as and how it was done. Whether it will be done by geodetic bureaus, whether they have enough trained faces for it, we think it's very important to define in this law or any sublegal act and whether one thing and another is going to do these geodetic bureaus. Our common goal should be to prevent exactly illegal construction, so that we don't come to this opportunity to work on some Lex speciality laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13738	Anyone else want a word? National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13739	The law, i.e. all these members necessary for the implementation of legalisation, cease to be valid for several months. It is clear that we are expected to have a new law on planning and construction and the law on whether it will be a lek specialis or will be within that law, we will only see that, a law that will regulate the issue of buildings without a building permit. Many times today and the previous three days as we discussed this, we expressed our views that I am deeply convinced that many hundreds of thousands of objects will remain without property records. I think it's a great thing, I agree with the Minister, that the state has a record of its assets. It's an extremely important state issue we need to address sooner or later. I also suggest a concrete solution. There are appropriate footage that absolutely poses each of the objects, all of these objects, probably 99% of these objects are already registered in municipal enterprises, "Electrification" and "Telecom". If, in the context of its regular business, government authorities match each distribution data that reads the number, they know the position of any facility, and there are data on ownership of these facilities in the distribution. I think in just a few months, the state can do the job, make a record of it, and then we can solve it further. The essence of the record, and if we don't solve any other issues, as priority state business, we can solve the issue of records, and later we will solve the relevant legal solutions to all the other problems that exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13740	A minute and 45 minutes have been used since the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13741	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when I submitted these amendments to this law we're discussing today, I had even one controversy with people who think the same way I do, how many days it takes to stay a deadline for some activities, but what kind of words we should use when it comes to writing these amendments and when it comes to the terms we use. Some of the amendments I submitted, some of them I did not quite find in this report that the committee was considering them and whether they had spoken positively or negatively. I didn't get into the essence of these problems, what happened to the amendment to Article 8, just telling me my colleague Senic was rejected, but I'm going to say something about this amendment that I handed over where some deadlines are being set. Since I don't want to talk more times, I'm going to connect this to Article 13 and Article 13a I suggested. In Article 13, I asked that the words "90 days" be replaced by the words "15 days", and here I have an obligation for clarification, for the clarity of my amendment to actually read in order to vote the said article of this 13th law. You can see right away why I suggested Article 13a. Therefore, Article 13 states - owners of illegally built objects, i.e. part of the facility that has applied for legalisation of the facility in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction do not have the obligation to submit a new request, but the application is considered to be a request for registration of property under this law. It is then stated in the third paragraph – the Authority of the Administration responsible for legalising illegally built objects is obliged to submit within 90 days of the entry into force of this Act to the authority responsible for enrolment of the right of ownership the requirements for the facilities referred to in Article 1 of this Act with the documentation prescribed by this Act. I felt that despite the number of items that are currently in place before the resolution that a period of 15 days is sufficient and I see that this amendment has been rejected by this very argument that there are a large number of applications submitted. I don't expect more effective government work, because we're trying to get the state authorities to serve citizens, but I thought it was a 15-day deadline. I am saying, I understand the reasons set out in the reasons for the refusal of this amendment, but I will certainly talk about Article 13a when the time comes which I also handed over with the request to be considered, because I believe that there is a possibility that this Article 13a, which would be added to the sublegal acts, would be closer to regulating the way the records on the insight carried out, and directly refers to Article 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13742	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is one minute and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13743	My amendment is in line with the amendments I proposed to the previous members. My amendment has been rejected, but I am taking the opportunity within the time I have for my amendment, supporting the amendment of my colleague, Susana Spasojevic. counterpart Spasojevic, the amendment was also rejected, suggested that a 90-day deadline in which the authority should enter the law be moved to 180 days. I think that the amendment should be accepted, a team before the amendments to these 14 members of the law are designed to adopt several extremely serious sublegal acts, which need to edit all those things that are not arranged. If you look closely at the contents of the sublegals, I doubt there will be only three, I think three members of the law are foreseen, I think it takes a lot of time for these sublegal acts to be arranged. The 90-day deadline starts after the law is published, because I'm sure a large number of people will do it on the first day, especially those who have residential business facilities, and these powerful apartments, waiting to legalize. A member of the law also does not predict anything in case the deadline breaks. Then what's going on? Some other laws apply, or something else happens, or it is thought that the silence of the administration has already been issued. So I think that if the law is the way it is, it should at least remove those shortcomings that will help at least get out of this congregation to have any applicability.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13744	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Olga Batic, who has the word, submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13745	Thank you. First of all, as regards Article 9, I see that several MPs have submitted amendments, but only one amendment has been accepted, as a consequence of the adoption of the amendment to Article 4 submitted by MPs Antić and Rajcic, on the proposal of this law. As far as this article is concerned, I have proposed an amendment to delete it, in particular its position 2, but in any case I would support Mr. Obradovic's amendment, to completely delete this Article 9 and, above all, for the following reasons. Because the provisions of this Article 1 are directly contrary to Article 8 of this draft law, which provides for a way to initiate the procedure, i.e. everything to contain a request for the registration of property rights on an unlawfully built facility, as well as the evidence to be contained, to which it is to be submitted. It cannot be predicted that the owners of illegally built objects or parts of illegally built objects that have filed a legalisation application in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction do not have the obligation to submit a new request, in the sense of Article 1, but that a request may be submitted, shall be deemed to be a request for the registration of property rights, right on this law. Already in the mentioned Article 8a, which is a member of Article 9 in direct contrast to point 1 of the proposal, the applicants have just provided that a request for the entry of property rights on an illegally built facility is to be submitted to the authority responsible for the entry of property rights, on whose territory the illegally built facility is located. The provisions of Article 2 are, of course, no better, to that end and a certain amendment has been accepted, I consider one amendment, because this Article 2 prescribes that owners of illegally built objects who have not applied for legalisation of objects, and that within the time limits prescribed by the Law of Planning and Construction, may, within one year from the date of entry into force of the law, submit a request in accordance with this law and only one detail is clear, which of these requirements applies to. Whether this provision refers to a request for legalisation or to the entry of property rights illegally built objects. These are the inaccuracies to be removed. In addition, as regards the position of 3rd of this Article, its provisions are contrary to Article 1 paragraph 5, which is the regulatory obligation of the authority responsible for the affairs of urbanism, that upon request by the RGZ within 15 days of the date of delivery, it determines whether the application for the registration of the right of property refers to the objects and, in that sense, the written notice of the applicant, so that the provision of the Authority in charge of the legalisation of the illegally built objects is required to support and amendment of my colleague Susana Spasojevic of the MP group of SPS within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, to provide a catalogue of immovableities of the objects established in Article 1 of the Law and to the necessary documentation, i.e. evidence of resolved property-legis relations, both on land and on an object which is subject to legalisation requirements and are fully in the conflict with the same articles. I won't mention the fear of corruption again, but these are really considered all the preconditions that the organ only implements that provision that suits it more. The question also arises whether this means that on the date of delivery, it is believed that a request for the entry of property rights on an improperly built facility has been submitted, in fact this draft law does not regulate the situation where the Authority does not actually provide the specified documentation or the sanction is prescribed in this bill, what will be in this case and is not regulated in the way in which the owners of the illegally built objects will be informed of the very way in which the documents are delivered. I think that this provision, in fact, this whole article 4 that should be deleted, is a potential risk of that corruption, mentioned several times, because the rules of procedure are missing, and in this way this article creates another legal void, and there are enough of them already in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13746	Two minutes and 30 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic, and time is available for 17 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13747	For me, there will be much less time, we have heard in the light of our distinguished colleague Batic, that this amendment has been submitted to clear provisions of this law. Today we also heard the reasoning of the ruling majority that all the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency were adopted, and of Article 8 which had just passed, where it said, if necessary, which I had just explained, and now, once again, an arbitrary interpretation of the law and the failure to accept the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which clearly gives for the rights of the opposition people when criticising this law to criticise these vague provisions that create space for corruption. Still, the analogy leads to the conclusion that things are being passed here, laws that promote corruption, and that the government is only declared to fight corruption, and that the system laws it makes are being supported. It is good to drop masks and it is good for the citizens of Serbia to see and it is good to hear people from the Anti-Corruption Agency, that their recommendations have not been adopted, that they have only been adopted in loud speeches that serve to entertain citizens, to act, to demagogue, to deceive the public, but that the essential recommendations given by people from the Anti-Corruption Agency have not been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13748	It was used a minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Suzanne Spasojevic. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13749	I spoke of this in principle and yesterday, and I hope that if I repeat this more than once, the minister may take seriously the need to extend the 90-day deadline for issuing a decision on the registration of property rights to 180 days. I've had experience working with the Catastres, so I know how long it takes to issue a simple copy of the plan or belief. Imagine what will happen when 700,000 requests are sent by the competent services, legalisation requirements, which have been filed under earlier regulations and what will happen if even 700,000 owners of illegal objects who have not applied for legalisation file for construction. I'm sure with all the regular obligations, there'll be asphyxiation. I urge the minister to take the seriousness and extend this deadline to 180 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13750	National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, we have submitted an amendment to Article 10, and this amendment provides for the possibility that someone to whom you enter property rights on the basis of this law, without a building permit, has no permission, so there is no project, no static, no knowledge whether this object will fall tomorrow, no one will be responsible if that facility falls, that there is an obligation for the owner of that facility to carry out the legalisation process, I repeat once again because this is not legalisation, and that within two years, this procedure is completed and that it is granted a building and use permit. So we can't allow and the state can't prescribe that they can stand and use objects that don't know if they're going to collapse at any moment. So, a two-year period in which a legalisation procedure is carried out after enrolment. In order to get people to carry out this legalisation process to the end, we have told this amendment that the one who is entitled to the right of property, and not to carry out legalisation in the next two years, that this right of property will be erased. So, as it is written, it will be deleted unless a building and use permit is obtained. So I just can't accept that we can ignore the complete importance of building use, that we can say by this law -- it's okay, everyone can write down property rights. After that right of property, of course, I can traffic, I can do whatever it takes. They can also use objects without construction and use of permits. I think it's a huge risk in the state that the state guarantees someone that they can be in that facility, and that facility doesn't have the permission to use. I don't understand why this amendment wasn't accepted. I can't accept an argument that says - it's not up to the legalisation process to be conducted by the applicant, but depends on the local self-government, or the body that does it. Does this mean that the ministry believes that today's competent state authorities are unable to complete their work within two years? If they are not able to complete the work within two years, how will they be able to re-enter the property within a very short period of time? All of us living in this country know very well that there are a lot of incomplete demands from the requests made, that simply, the citizen did not provide all the documentation necessary. I think it's part of the motive just so these facilities don't get legalized in the end, that is, when you legalize and enter property rights, you have property, so you have to pay property taxes. Citizens took advantage of the opportunity to apply for legalisation and thus prevented the possibility of destruction, but they still do not file any papers. We need to encourage them and motivate them to really complete the legalization process and get a building and use permit. I don't think there's any need to mention that even under the Construction Planning Act and those provisions that were advertised unconstitutional, that these procedures were also greatly facilitated. So we didn't have a problem in the procedure. She was even too easy. Now we're going one step further, and we don't need what was under the Law of Planning and Construction, based on this law, to enroll the right of property. So once again to conclude, we're not going to solve this problem with this law. You avoid the possibility they gave you, that even if the property is registered like this, you still encourage people to legalize their facility, or get a building and use permit, and that citizens are ultimately safe in those buildings they built, that they know that they are built according to the criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13752	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13753	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, we find it difficult to communicate with you like this. You've been here all day like a clockworker. You're looking at the time of 4:00 p.m., the milk session. At 3:45 p.m., you'll hear from us, give us a lecture, and at 4:00 p.m. you'll be done. Answer something, so we're ours. I'm from the Kruševec bar, you're from the Cuck. You understand what we're saying? You're looking at the chronometer. The stopwatch is on. You can't run away. Not even an "A" to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13754	People's MP, I ask you all together to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to treat each other politely.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13755	I'm sorry. I didn't mean anything by it. That's people's understanding, but not an "A" to say. I'd expect you to say something. You were very talkative yesterday. The other day, you waited 5:30 and then you answered that experience. I believe in that chacha experience. The 22-year-old politics has made you an experienced politician, but you have something to tell us about the amendments? Don't let us wait 15:45 hours for you to answer, pack your bags, go home, go to the office.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13756	People's MP, I warn you that we are obliged to respect Article 106 and to talk about the agenda point. Amendment to Article 9 is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13757	I'll be done now. Thank you. I just wanted to hear some reply from the minister, that you weren't sitting there for nothing all day. I know it's hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13758	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovana Joksimović and Ljuban Panic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Boris Rankovic, Aleksandar Senic, Jovana Joksimović and Ljuban Panic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13759	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. While I was reading this bill, the first thing that came into my eyes was this particular article on the 10th, and the word can pay for municipal equipment according to the law, so we can call it, or compensation for the construction land. We have suggested that this change be made and put "to the end of this law we must pay this fee". Why? Because DSS advocates equal rights for everyone, depending on which zone is built and which object, so it's not always the same everywhere, it's not all uniform and one-brave. In business-tourism areas, construction land is certainly more expensive and the country is more expensive, etc., and everything depends on the specificity of the region of local self-government etc. As for the price and some allowing poorer layers to get more favourable conditions for housing, certainly every unit of local self-government has the option through its decision to arrange building land to define these prices, so it can do so. You will agree that in local self-government, people know the problems again best and the situations they face and what is best for their citizens. I'd like to say that paying a fee for the construction land and leaving options and the possibility of obtaining a valid permit for me is really not an option, but rather an obligation, such as paying, for example, taxes or any other tax. It's some civic duty to take out a used permit for any facility. We had the Law on the financing of local self-government, so in part I would link this to the amendments to that law, where compensation is abolished as the original income of local self-government, compensation for the construction land, and a general term of "refund" is introduced, etc. I'm afraid that we local self-governments are going to eliminate the original incomes of which a very large part of the municipalities collect income where a lot is being built. I would take the opportunity to ask, on the basis of this amendment, whether the objects that enter property rights and not in the legalisation process will be able to join the electricity, the power facilities, and whether local self-government, for those objects that have not applied for legalisation, and enter property rights on the facility, will be obliged to carry out municipal equipment for these parcels, to do the road, the planning documentation, etc., which is required to do, if they have not submitted those legalisation requirements so far, and cannot be done so. Otherwise, if they can't use anything from joining the municipal infrastructure, what is the aim of enrolling property rights without completing the legalisation process? I really ask the legislator to pay attention to this amendment, once again to review and include this amendment in the amendments that you have accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13760	Used one minute from the MP's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of Parliament Dejan Rajcic, with correction and Alexander Antic, submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MPs Dejan Rajčić, Aleksandar Antić, Olgica Batić and Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahovic together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korać, followed by a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13761	In this amendment to Article 10, we have proposed that paragraph 3 be deleted, which was provided for - after the submission of the evidence referred to in Article 4(2) of this Act, the real estate catalogue, at the request of the rightholder of the property on the facility entered in accordance with the provisions of this Act, will delete the notice of outstanding compensation for building land under the facility. We felt that, in the event that such a solution remains in the law, we would be in a position to delete unsettled registered obligations for building land, which were created under the earlier Law on Legalisation and which would arise when this law was applied. So we suggested that it should be deleted that those notes already made for commitments not be settled on the basis of the building land compensation, that they should not be deleted, that there be no possibility of payment of those obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13762	National MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13763	Thank you. I am glad that this amendment has been accepted where Article 10 has deleted Article 3, which my colleague Biljana Hasanovic Korac has already explained. But I think that the Committee on Spatial Planning should have considered and pointed out to the Minister in full where the problems of this entire member of the law lie, because his only problem is not only a member of the 3 that is happily deleted, and this amendment has become an integral part of the law, but the number of problems are seen both in Section 1, and in Section 2. The provisions of Article 1 shall not be defined where an application within the meaning of Article 9 is deemed to have been submitted in a situation where an application for the legalisation of an unlawfully built facility is deemed to be a request for the registration of the right of ownership, but shall stipulate that the decision on the entry of the right of property shall be made by the Republic of Geodetic Institute, or by the competent office of the immovable cadast, within 60 days from the date of the submission of the regulatory request. It is very important that the bill prescribes the exact moment in time when the application is considered to have been filed, because since then the required deadlines have begun, and that is, above all, the 60-day deadline in which the Authority, after all, brings its own solution. In addition to that Article 10, in its position 1 is directly contrary to Article 9 or 3 respectively. As regards Article 2(2), it stipulates that the decision to enter the right of the property must also contain the obligation to enter into a noticeable Database of immovableity from which the immovableity sheet is issued. Such a draft law does not provide for whose obligation, which is not intended for the applicant, does not provide for a period of time for submission of applications, does not specify whether a specific solution and a number of other issues are adopted in the entry of the notice. I think that the Committee on Spatial Planning should have taken into account all the shortcomings in Article 10, Article 1, and Article 10, and that it also points to the legislator of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13764	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13765	I just wanted to say that the government has accepted this amendment because Mr. Proposer has changed and completed his proposal and is now completely identical to the amendments that have been accepted. He became an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13766	The amendment addressed by the minister, an amendment to article 10 with a correction submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic, cannot become an integral part. I would ask the minister to formally, for the record, say that on behalf of the motionary he accepts the amendment. The amendment will be declared by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13767	Amendment accepted. It is in line with the amendments already accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13768	I find that an amendment with a correction was adopted on behalf of the motionor, which was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic, and in the day of voting, the National Assembly will decide on this amendment, given that the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment, the Assembly is obliged to declare this amendment, and it remains in the procedure. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of Parliament Dejan Rajcic and Aleksandar Antić submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added to Article 11a after Article 11, was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted in the same text by MPs Radojko Obradović and Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanić, followed by the MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13769	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to delete Article 13 of the existing Bill of Law. We think they have to be given, and I've been repeating that, because that's the basic part that we've been doing while we've been reading the law and putting up with the amendments, that equal opportunities have to be given for everything, so I don't see why it wouldn't be here? So the question must be asked to those people who have applied for legalisation whether they want to enroll in property rights on buildings and to transfer these requests to the municipal administrations cadastre? I believe that there are people in most business-tourism zones like this. Zlatibor or Vranjačka Banja or Sokobanja, etc., that people want to get the applicable permits, because that is the basic thing that everyone should have if they have an object for more efficient traffic of real estate, credit, etc. This would end the legalization process, and we could get into a big problem. My opinion is based on the experience I have in the Municipality of Chatin, from where I am still employed, a geodetic institution or a cadastre cannot handle all these requirements in the best possible way. One of my colleagues already said they don't have enough capacity. It takes a few months for them to pull out a simple registration certificate, or register an object. So, now with the extra of this, let me say business, it's going to be very difficult for them, so we should see how and how to get rid of it, so we don't stop running business. So, you really need to pay attention to how the catastre is going to do it, I say, that there wouldn't be some kind of obstruction and I think that really the catastre could have been working with local self-government by now to have certain powers and to work together to sign these objects. I just wanted to say, since I won't answer my word anymore, that I really take my job very seriously and very professionally, and I tried to work on the criticism of the law itself, and not the minister. I really don't see any reason for any of the legislators to understand something bad or critical, because what was the goal of me and the Democratic Party of Serbia, is certainly to come up with the best possible solution, which we believe can be passed by one good law. I can invite the Minister to come to the Hall of Chattino to see what kind of problems we're facing, that we may try to solve something together, because it's a lot easier to see some of the problems in practice, specifically with us. Maybe you've met someone or maybe you haven't. Whether there are any applications, how anyone works in local self-government, whether he does more jobs, so if someone does more jobs and everything works right, I would call it capacity, certainly, and not by failure, and that anyone can achieve what they do on multiple fronts. I think what he's saying may be about some efficiency and business, about anything in a local self-government, can only be the results of the election in any case, and you can see it from the support of over 50% of the population of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the Municipality of Chatin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13770	This used the time available to the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Before I give you my word, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87 and 27, notice of the course of today's work, or session during the day. From 16,00 to 19,00 hours are scheduled for a session with the current topic, scheduled by the president of the National Assembly, at the request of the LDP parliamentary group. I would like to inform you that we will be working after 19.00 hours if there is a need, or after 18.00 hours, after the session is completed with the current topic, and that today we will be given a break of probably less than 60 minutes, to which we are bound by the Rules of Procedure, but because of the need for us to finish the search in detail before the 1600th session begins with the current topic. If that doesn't work, then that part of the session will continue after a short break, and after 1900 hours. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic, with gratitude for the patience to listen to the notice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13771	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. It's a pleasure to see you chair the National Assembly session again. This law has a majority and it is quite clear that, in addition to the many amendments and suggestions and remarks we had on it, it will be adopted in the voting day. Article 13 is one of the members who will greatly prevent the application of this law. How? If we carefully read Article 13, then all 700,000 people who have applied for enrolment do not need to submit a new request. That's what the law says. This is considered to be the right of registration of property, whether on land or on an object or on land and on an object. You don't say that anywhere. It's possible for all those who didn't do it to do it again, but for all these 700,000 people, the first question is, what happens if they re-apply? Whether these two demands are of equal importance or one of those two requirements has priority, it's not said anywhere. If they fail to submit a request, all those authorities responsible for the legalisation process shall have 90 days to process 700,000 requests and to comply with all requirements, as they are told to provide the competent authorities with the documentation prescribed by this law. The thing is, there were several attempts at legalization. Every attempt at legalization had a different file. Several sublegislative acts have regulated the issue of legalisation in a completely different way. Finally, it was stated that it was necessary to apply within the prescribed period of time only the request. The competent authority now has 90 days to do a job that hasn't been able to do in many years. He has an obligation to perform, under his official duty, the cleaning of that file, the fitting of this law and to do the job. All those who couldn't do it in six, nine, twelve years, depending on when we count, to do the job, they have 90 days to edit the paperwork. In doing so, the request can also be negatively resolved, can be rejected, etc. This article shows how inapplicable the law will be, how we will wait for another law, and how unfortunately in this assembly we will talk again about the same problem, hopefully, with much better solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13772	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13773	I want to support the amendment submitted by my colleague Bozanic and other colleagues to Article 13. He is right, colleague Obradovic, when he comes to the point that we see in this article how pointless this law is and how inapplicable this law is. For the sake of the citizens, I mean, Article 13, it says that all those requirements that have been filed for legalization are, in fact, requests for the registration of property rights. Legalization is done by the authority of local self-government, and registration of property rights is done by a cadastre, a republican authority. You don't know what's been filed in those requests, whether there's any ID required, any document, any paper needed to enroll property rights. I'm telling you from practice. There are thousands of requests that were only filed until a certain deadline, without any single document. It can't be such a request to enroll property rights, nor will the catastra decide on it, the first thing. The second thing, you say in Article 13, paragraph 3, is that within 90 days, the municipal authority, means the authority of local self-government, will deliver to the authority responsible for the registration of property rights any requests made, with all the documentation prescribed in this law. Where will he deliver within 90 days if it is not in the case of that prescribed file? Who says people will be delivering the prescribed paperwork in the next 90 days? It is impossible to deliver a catastro object with all the prescribed documentation because it is not in the case. It's impossible for 1,300,000 objects, as many as you say there are and likely to be filed, to deliver 1,300,000 items to the catastro. What's the cadastre going to do with 1,300,000 items it gets over the next 90 days? You said, when we discussed in principle, that 30, 40 people in Belgrade would be employed. You see, that job can't be done. With this law, you simply prevent the legalization process that is still going on. If local self-government delivers complete case files to the cataster, I ask you – what will remain in the Secretariat for Legalisation, or those secretaries that deal with legalisation in municipal administrations? They don't have papers anymore. So they can't do legalization anymore, they can't continue legalization. Whoever wants to get a building permit and use it, and so far has not received it, will not be able to win the legalisation process, because the whole case, all the files will be packed and sent to the cadastre in the next 90 days. As many as will sit in the 1,300,000-seat catastro, it can only be assumed by citizens, because even now, when you want to register in Belgrade, it lasts six months. So, did anyone read what it says here? Let's write - they will supply information or invite citizens within 90 days they submit a new request with the necessary credentials in the cadastre, so they can enter the right of property, not pack a complete item. What does that mean, they're going to pack up projects? What are these guys doing in the projects? Projects and papers and photographs and documents from municipality to catastra will be executed. When will that be back in the cadastre? How do we proceed with legalization? So you made a provision that proves it and shows that it is never again possible to legalise objects in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13774	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Susana Spasojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13775	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, counterpart Biljana Hasanovic Korać and I have submitted an amendment to Article 13(3), which speaks of all cases which have been handed over and are in the legalisation process and which are not completed, are subject to registration by force of this law and are considered requirements for registration of property rights. With our amendment, we have proposed to allow the party to participate in this part, i.e. to add words that, with the consent of the party, these cases can be transferred. It is precisely for the reasons that we have heard in previous discussions, because procedures are under way, many are interested in ending this legalisation process, aware that all documentation has been delivered and that they have conditions. It's one part of why we've advocated, and at the same time it's about the equality of our citizens who have the need to enter property rights, while part of the law for everyone else is on the principle of volunteering, only for these citizens who have already applied for legalisation and it practically takes place by law. On the other hand, what we consider to be a major problem in our legal system is that in this way the parties are prevented from participating in the procedure from the very beginning, which is contrary to the basic principles of the conduct of the administrative procedure. On the Committee on Urbanism, when I defended on behalf of my colleague and myself this amendment, the Ministry's representative promised to speak with the minister in this part, so I hope that this has been transferred and that we can expect a positive answer to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13776	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by National MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Rajcic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport Infrastructure and Telecommunications has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment to which Article 13a is added after Article 13. The MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic together submitted an amendment adding Article 13a after Article 13. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment that would allow the sublegal act closer to the office of conditions, content and method of drawing up the records of the examination carried out, the specification of the specific physical parts, as the persons who make an insight into the specification set out in Article 8 of this Act and that it has to be adopted within 30 days. It is simply that there was a lack of such a provision in the law and it was not known according to this law how the specification of the physical parts would be done in the course of the registration process of property rights. In an explanation of why this amendment was rejected, it says that it is because similar amendments were submitted by Aleksandar Antic and Dejan Rajcic. A large number of amendments by opposition parliamentary groups have been rejected. He was rejected because, I suppose, it was a shame to adopt the amendments to the opposition, so you also adopted amendments that are similar and that come from the parliamentary groups of the ruling majority. I just want to encourage you not to be ashamed and that you were free to adopt the amendments proposed by the DS, which even in some parts were different or for a shade better than the MPs of the ruling coalition groups suggested. However, I think we have shown during this debate that indeed all the parliamentary groups have submitted amendments, that the parliamentary groups have submitted very similar amendments, which is another proof that this law really did not work in that text that came to the Assembly, so I ask that the next time you send some legislation to the Serbian Parliament, you make first consultations and that you do not get into a situation to change all the parliamentary groups by amendments, the minority, all the members of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13778	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Jovana Joksimovic and Ljuban Panic together submitted an amendment adding Article 13a after Article 13. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday, March 15, 2013, starting at 11.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I'm sorry, since the investigation and the debate have been concluded, and I see that I have been called into question, and the debate in particular is a little different from the principle debate, you can only report on the amendment being discussed. (Ljuban Panic, from the post: I responded after the last amendment. No matter what, you didn't sign up on time. I asked if anyone wanted a word. Since I've concluded the debate, I can't really give you my word anymore. The break is till 4:00, when we get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of a proposal from the LDP Parliamentary Group, and in accordance with Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set out Thursday, March 14, 2013, starting at 4:00 p.m. as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on the current topic. The current topic on which members of the government will answer parliamentary questions is: food security in the Republic of Serbia and in the health of citizens, standards and responsibility for their implementation. I remind you that the LDP Parliamentary Group has asked that parliamentary questions on this topic be answered: Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister, Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Health Minister and Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has writtenly informed the National Assembly that today's session is unable to attend: Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister. On the basis of a question from a number of other members of the government, I decided to invite them to attend this session, which I believe increases the government's responsibility to the National Assembly. Since only the ministers who are invited and listed in the text will answer questions, I do not think anyone should be against the presence of those members of the government at this session. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to how to ask parliamentary questions on the current subject. All MPs have the right to ask questions. The first question is asked by a representative of the proposings, then by the President-in-Office or by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting from the representatives of the least-numbered parliamentary group to the number of largest parliamentary groups and MPs, according to requests for questions, and by the end of the total time for answering. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply, and verbally during the duration of the reply. The MP can ask up to three questions. Answering parliamentary questions may take the longest 180 minutes and shall be carried out regardless of the number of MPs present in the hall. The time within which the MP orally asks questions is no more than three minutes, the answer to that question is no more than five minutes. Following the response, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions, for a total duration of up to two minutes, and the answer to this sub-question may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions, according to the order of applications. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replication and indication of infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. We're moving on to asking questions. The president of the LDP parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13780	Mr. President, honourable vice presidents, government representatives, first of all, I want to make it clear to you that we are amazed and do not take it personally, I am talking about politics, in the face of the ruling coalition. We didn't need this session to bring it down to the political theater. If a party was trying to be serious at the moment of the great crisis that hit every man in this country, it was our party. We did not want the problem of food security in Serbia to be reduced to political nonsense and pointless party wars. That's what we wanted to talk about openly, and that's what we've been denied. Mr. Knezevic, when the government was elected here, we did not vote for the government, but speaking on behalf of our party, I made it very clear that we respect anyone who is willing as a person to take responsibility at a time like this. Where's the Prime Minister? Where's the finance minister? What was the value of Serbian agrarian exports last year? It was two and a half billion euros. What's it gonna be in this one? Where is he today? Dacic has time to pose on the Bath. He's going to Brussels. Where is the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration? Listen well, representatives of the ruling coalition, some facts. The Food Safety Act prescribes the establishment of an expert advice on risk assessment in the area of food safety and in order to achieve a high level of protection of human health and life. It's not formed and it doesn't exist. There's no such thing as a quick notification or alarm system. That's why we have Twitter, so then Minister Knezevic proves to the cameras the correctness of the milk by drinking glasses of milk and convincing us as citizens that we need the same example to follow. This was the case in the Middle Ages – put the goods next to the table and first he tries the food, so if he survives, everyone else eats at the table. Rules. The rules on the quality of food for animals, as well as other rules on the quality of certain product groups, are not in line with European legislation. The rules on the quality and conditions of use of additives in foods and their mixtures do not comply with European legislation, as nothing has changed since 2005. The rules on the declaration and labelling of packaged foods are not in accordance with European legislation. The law on genetically modified organisms implies many changes and is now not in line with European legislation. (President: Time. Time? That's why this is bullshit from the session, Mr. Stefanovic. Explain to people in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13781	Sir, you have the right, within your three minutes, to ask any question to the members of the government, including three ministers, who are deeply involved in this matter. You have the right to receive an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13782	Mr. Stefanovic, we want the problem solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13783	Here, ask a question. You used three minutes. You'll have the right to respond to one of the ministers if one of the ministers calls in to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13784	What can this man do with a session like this? What? Change it at the session of your main committee and convince Serbia that it is a normal country. You've made this crazy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13785	Mr. Jovanovic, don't use a dictionary like that. If you haven't asked a single question, you can't, of course, be entitled, if the minister answers the question or if they think you haven't formulated the question, for another two minutes and two additional questions. Do you, Mr. Prince, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13786	To give Mr Jovanovic a chance to ask a question, not to keep this session in the shadow of what he said, I would say only a few introductory things, which is that I would like to thank all those who insisted that this session be held, because at this session, me and my colleagues will be able to explain some things, give some information about the food safety system in Serbia. There's been a lot of untruths in the media, a lot of insinuations, bad things. I wanted to believe in the beginning that it was just an accident and that it would end, that a consensus would be reached on how to overcome this situation. However, it is obvious that it is a well-organised political campaign, trying to destroy a Serbian peasant, Serbian agriculture and a Serb village. I will continue to try to answer all those questions with all the data that are related to the Ministry of Agriculture, and there are other colleagues who will certainly try to answer questions from their resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13787	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13788	I agree largely with your findings, Mr. Knezevic, that all this has turned into the political filth that we live in, survive and behold, thank God, you and I are on our feet. You know what? The responsibility for the functioning of the system is the largest on that side that has a crucial impact on its functioning. I've counted the rules that have been overcome and the gaps that have remained because the Food Safety Act is not applied in a regulated manner. It's not a feature of your government's mandate, but it's your responsibility. First question - how will we protect the Serbian agrarian? There's been a threat to production, livestock, warfare, the dairy industry, the beer industry, and we've reached apples that are poisonous. It is necessary that, due to the economy of this country, very concrete measures are taken. Now, as far as we know, you have in Serbia about 1,200,000 tons of corn that is in the clip and half a million in the grain. The one in the grain is in silos and he's mixed up with the toxic one. Are you ready to form a task force, step out of that SNS war, DS? I don't care about your relationships and any normal man in this country, who lives on agrarians or feeds, don't care about your bickering. Form teams, establish harmony and necessary co-operation with the province government, hire institutes, colleges, and assure the public that you know how to do what you've been announcing for weeks. No one in this country today believes or understands the difference between the Quality Regulation and the Food Safety Act. It is true that we have grown up by certain standards that have changed in the meantime, but act in a reasonable way. This isn't a session where we can get to that sense. First I ask you, are you ready to take concrete measures and what measures will you take to protect the corn in Serbia, enable its processing, restore the necessary consumer confidence and enable manufacturers to continue their work? Serbia is the only European country where chaos is this big.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13789	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13790	This existing food safety system is set up by a number of laws and sublaws, one of the most important food safety laws adopted in 2009. In the end, it's surrounded by this famous, famous rule we're all talking about today. This is the Regulation on maximum residue levels of plant protection products in food and feed adopted in 2011. It is about regulations adopted in order to comply with our legislation with EU standards, but without sufficient sense of reality and with no sense of flexibility and enforceability of those standards in Serbia. Before adopting those standards, decades earlier, we had a completely different system, when the state was a majority owner in both production and transport and when it had much greater food control in it. These rules, which were adopted between 2009 and 2011, have seen fundamental changes. The primary responsibility for food quality is for manufacturers, while the state is intended to play the role of controllers of this system and reactions if this self-control system is not implemented. This food safety system shows shortages throughout the European community. These days we have had the opportunity to see various and diverse affairs happening in Europe, from the appearance of horse meat in beef sausages to the found pork in food intended for the Muslim market. Here in our environment, even throughout Europe, aflatoxin has appeared in milk. We heard yesterday that the buns in Poland were salted with a shirt. Not to mention the past period and the disease of crazy cows and everything else that's been going on. The problem obviously exists, and it is particularly expressed in Serbia because of the poverty in which Serbia is located. A particular problem is the lack of a national reference laboratory that has been discussed for a long time. For her, since 2003, we have received about eightm euros in donations, which has already been officially opened twice. As you know, to this day, that reference laboratory is not working. Of course, there are difficulties in organising the work itself, in inspection services, because for years we have too few inspectors back, not to mention how they are paid and what equipment they work with. Also, systematically, these inspectors are located in several ministries and in several administrations. We're working on a motion to reorganize inspection services, but believe me, it's not a job that can be done overnight. We've been here, as an administration, in the Ministry of Agriculture for about seven months. We've faced huge problems that we've solved and I admit that, that's part of my responsibility, we haven't been able to deal with these things, and that this whole case has a little bit caught up with us. We've had problems with the consolidation of finance, with payments to farmers, who have been owed from previous years. We've been working to help farmers who have been hit by droughts. You know we had an elemental accident, drought. We have worked on system laws that would allow farmers to plan their agricultural production over a longer period of time and that, over a longer period of time, they can count on investments and anything they can improve, not just their work, but full agriculture and social gross product.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13791	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13792	Very briefly on this part of the question relating to the reserves of corn in the stock reserves. Exactly what Mr Jovanovic said, 150 to 160 thousand tons of corn in the corn stores for the stock reserves, 31% is infected and toxic. These quantities are isolated in special cells. It has already begun the process of detoxifying these quantities, and the remaining amount will be divided by farmers, 300 kilograms per head of cattle. Some 30,000 tons will be divided. We will also regularly inform you of further controls, given that we have agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out another extraordinary control, to determine whether these quantities are real, because they are currently on paper, and whether they are again real amounts of corn that are toxic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13793	The word is Mr. Jugovic. Ivan Andric, from the scene: We have the right once more. ) Let me read you one more provision of Rules of Procedure that define asking questions. The time and frame in which the MP asks the question is the longest of three minutes, and the answer to that question is five minutes longer. After that, the MP, who asked the question, can ask two more questions at most, for a total duration of up to two minutes, and the response to a new sub-question may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions, according to the order of the application. So this differs from the session on which government issues are raised, when the MP has the right to a third sub-question. So you're wrong. Mr. Jugovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13794	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is good that today we will have the opportunity to talk about this very important topic, about food safety, but for our parliamentary club it will not mean digging a political trench, nor a political struggle, but the possibility of going to meet any similar problems that can expect us in the future. Serbia has been through a turbulent period over the past two decades. The system was impossible, or there was not enough will because of the political elites, to establish in the right way, which is why we have shown in this area in the previous period that we need to change, to adopt European standards, European values, to try another way to organise the country, to function as modern Western European countries. For those two decades on the shelves, we were offered, sold everything and everything in free sale on the street. The quality of food is not controlled and we all remember it well. The European Union has insisted, and this is an individual example that has shown in the most transparent way all the problems Serbia is in, the EU has adopted standards that aflatoxin in milk can be 0.05%. We, going towards the EU, because the EU has asked us to do so, and also our desire to become a member of the EU has forced us to do so, have accepted that standard. This standard is, according to all laboratories, according to all the medical analyses, one that is most optimistic that milk can be used, used in the diet of children and people. So I think we're in a situation where the Ministry of Health should give us some answers. I think that Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, I think her profession is also a doctoral obligation to explain previous statements, when the milk affair was more current than it is now, to explain to us what it means and whether teams will form to tell us exactly how much aflatoxin is harmful to health. I'll tell her I can't accept her assessment that citizens will have to assess whether they drink milk or not. So, what is it in the future that the ministry will do to establish criteria for what is healthy for our children and for the citizens of Serbia and what is not?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13795	Thank you, Mr. Jugovic. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13796	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Parliament performs its supervisory function in this way, I have a great sense of satisfaction. The topics and issues that have been asked me specifically now are a little longer on the air and are the product of the sentence that I have spoken when, regardless of what is, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture is directly in charge of monitoring the correctness of milk as nutritious matter, everything regarding health in the obligation that with my co-workers from the Ministry of Health, not only I analyse, but I also do everything to improve health and determine very strict, clear and concrete steps in this regard. What I'm trying to say is that no moment has the citizens due to the aflatoxin M1 been compromised medically. Part of the statement I actually made, and commenting that I was using milk with my family, was about that part. The second part was that the atmosphere of panic was made. The World Health Organization defines health not only as physical, mental and social well-being, but also the absence of various other negative elements. So, the component of psychological and panic is also part of the health ministry's concern. The explanation was that those with fear, and they are waiting for the result of a lab in the Netherlands, if they don't drink milk for a few days, nothing terrible will happen, as certainly there are no harmful consequences for those who drink it. It seemed from the context that I said that citizens should self-determin, as if the Ministry of Health and waist had no clear views. Aflatoxin is a toxic substance. There is, it's known, both carcinogenic and teratogenic and mutagenic fact. It affects immunity, but in enormous quantities and in cumulative fact. The standard that is given and which is quite in place, 0.05 micrograms per kilogram, is the standard of EU countries and we need to pursue that standard. But if the previous steps are not standardised, then it's simply impossible to respect this standard and that's why we've actually entered into a situation that was most panicking, most politically inspired, not real health hazards. In that sense, I hope I've at least partially answered the questions you've asked, but I'm willing to listen to two more minutes of further questions and give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13797	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13798	I would ask a further question, since I think that responsibility for the functioning of the state lies with the entire government, I would also ask the Minister for Internal and External Trade Mr. Rasim Ljajic. As it is well known that agriculture is, the only business branch that can bring us a safe profit in the future, what we can do in the future, and the MPs' club SPO and DHSS is advocating to the maximum, so that no longer farmers, cattlemen, will be struck by the neglect of previous heritage, the neglect of previous governments, the neglect of everything that has followed us for years back and the consequences that appear to be controversial and which seem to me, most of all, affect and strike the backs of the Serbian peasant. You, ministers, surely know that many people from Serbia are leaving for Vienna or other capitals of Europe to look for food in their supermarkets, in their trade chains, believing that food in EU countries is better quality than that distributed in Serbia. Will the ministry strengthen control, in the sense that all the wholesale goods imported from EU countries, Asia, from all parts of the world, will strengthen the criteria for importing these foods and will be checked for the quality of these foods, since there are indications and this has been best seen with aflatoxin and speculation that certain foods that do not have sufficient quality standards, will be spent on our market and be the product of someone's desire to distribute everything in Serbia that could not be in EU countries?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13799	Minister Ljajic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13800	First of all, I would like to clarify that, under the Consumer Protection Act and the General Product Safety Act, the Ministry's market inspection is responsible for the control of industrial and non-food products. This is also in line with the current European standards in this area, so everything that is not food is in the jurisdiction of market inspection control and the Ministry of Trade. You mentioned the quality of food. I would also like to remind, under these laws, about the Law on the Safety of Food of Plant and Mixed Origin, the Law on the Safety of Drinks, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Animal Protection, that this is within the jurisdiction of various veterinary and phytosanitary inspections, while in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health there is the Law on Food Safety, or the Law on Sanitary Control, then health services is governed by the Health Protection Act, and the safety of medicines is governed by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. So I'm not running away from answering your question, absolutely not running away from responsibility, as a member of the government, but I'm telling you facts that are in line with our laws, but also with international standards in this area. Therefore, we are no exception when it comes to partnership with EU countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13801	Thank you. MP Arpad Fremond has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13802	Dear President, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by saying that the SVM parliamentary group is the most important thing to come up with a solution as soon as possible regarding the quality of milk. We believe that political co-operation is needed instead of political struggle, in the interest of all of us. We find it certainly worrying that in some products there was a higher amount of aflatoxin in milk than the permitted level, and on the other hand, we believe that the places for panic were gone and were not there. We welcome the decision to return the regulations on the allowed concentration of aflatoxin in milk of 0.5 micrograms per kilogram, currently applied by Serbia, to the previous level, i.e. 0.05 micrograms per kilogram. If we want to be an EU member, then in the accession process, we need to comply with EU regulations, so that our agricultural producers and our companies are ready for the competition that awaits them in the EU. The question for Mr. Knezevic is – when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia allow the level of aflatoxin in milk to return to the old? Furthermore, we heard that more than 70 land units were closed, or farms from which raw milk was purchased. We are interested, can agricultural producers count on some compensation from the Ministry of Agriculture, that is, how does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to help them? We've also heard that you're planning on giving corn out of stock, 300 kilos per head of milk cows, as well as zeoliths. We're interested. How are you doing with this job? We know that it is proposed to the milk industries to take over all quantities of milk from farms, regardless of its quality and that milk that does not meet the prescribed standards surrender to treatment, in accordance with the law intended for safe removal. Milkers have also obtained rapid diagnosis for the testing of milk at the place of purchase, with the aim of disfellowshipping the future suspicious milk in time and not reaching the store. A question for you, Mr. Principal, how did the purchase of milk containing more aflatoxins than the allowed in the first place occur? Did the competent institutions do their job, or did the authorities in the milkers do their job? In the end, I want to say that we believe that an independent laboratory is the ultimate solution to preventing these phenomena. The big problem is there's no independent lab to control the milk. Milklers sort of control themselves. The question is - when will an independent laboratory financed by, or already funded by, the EU, start working and will one laboratory check the correctness of milk throughout the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13803	Minister Knezevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13804	You've asked a lot of questions, I don't know if I'll be there in these five minutes to answer. But I'll try, because that's about the point, I think, of today's debate. Of course, under the Food Safety Act, you know that the manufacturer is responsible for the quality of that food, and the Ministry of Agriculture is doing regular official controls according to its programme and its rules. In 2012, 608 controls were carried out to check the amount of aflatoxin in milk. All those checks were, all those controls were negative. Also, in January 2013, we carried out 40 official controls and they were also negative. Only sometime in February 2013, the BiH competent authority announced that in milk from Croatia, they had found an illicit amount of aflatoxin and that, of course, on the basis of this letter, we had responded immediately and conducted an investigation into it and we found that no, responsibly, liter of that milk was imported into Serbia. After a wider phenomenon in the environment of aflatoxins, we took certain actions, too, by issuing an emergency control order, where we took 302 milk samples from 37 manufacturers in that emergency control. Otherwise, the checks are being checked with us at the Institute of Meat Hygienics and Technology. Of that 302 sample of 37 manufacturers, 48 lotes or 48 batches of milk showed a result that was at the limit of the allowed amount of aflatoxin. Since it has happened in several cases that one of the same milk samples has tri-results, one of which is good and one of them is disastrously bad, we decided to draw these 48 series, 48 lotions of milk preventively from our stores from our shelves. That's what's done, and those samples were sent to Holland for supercontrol. The same day, I informed the public, held a press conference, and informed them of the other measures implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture. This is that emergency control of corn, emergency control of livestock and raw milk is imposed, namely 1,725 on-line control of buying-ins in livestock, blending and agricultural holdings. Also, instructions were given to manufacturers and milk processors to behave in such a situation. A working group of high-quality experts from all over Serbia has been formed to propose to the ministry further measures. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted two conclusions on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture that those farms and landladys that have been closed, what Ljajic said earlier, to allow for 300kg of maize from stock reserves and certain amounts of Zeolite to overcome that toxicity as soon as possible. We also concluded that we are still dying milk to help farmers, and on the other hand, we cannot force it, but we have agreed with the milk processors to continue with the purchase of milk so that the producers themselves do not have much damage. The next move I took is that I invited my fellow agriculture ministers from the environment, meaning from BiH, Republika Srpska, Croatia, Macedonia, I talked to a colleague from Hungary, we talked because they have the exact same problem and have the exact same way to solve the problem. It's just that in some countries it's a little quiet, it's being solved in some kind of political and different way, which has become a political problem for us, and I don't think that's good. During the emergency inspection, it is temporarily out of ransom, i.e. 405 agricultural holdings and farms with 6153 throats were closed. They're small farms, small producers with 3, 5, 7, 9 cows. I can tell you one example from the middle-bath region where 15 farms with 33 throats have been closed. So there's an average above two throats. I'll continue when I have the chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13805	Mr. Fremong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13806	The Honorable President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that, thanks to the interventions of the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Government, the situation will calm down. What is extremely important, we welcome the decision that the government will restore the level of aflatoxin milk to the old. It's good to see that soon, we hope so. I wonder when that's gonna happen. It's also good that you plan to share corn from stock stores with cattlemen who have aflatoxin problems. I hope that there will be corn and for those cattlemen, farmers who are not problems with aflatoxin in milk, but they have problems because they have little livestock food and a small amount of livestock food left for them, I hope that there will be something for them too. I appeal to you, Mr. Minister, once again, to open an independent laboratory as soon as possible to control not only milk, but also livestock food and, of course, other food products, because this is the ultimate solution to preventing such phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13807	Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13808	I think after a long time of lying to the European zone, officials and donors, that for the first time we've moved like this, and we've worked out how to overcome the problem of national reference laboratories. So, as I said, it's only been invested from the EU somewhere over eightm euros over the past 10 years and nothing's been done. We envisioned a budget for 2013 and 2014 somewhere around 450 million dinars that will be sufficient. We have called a tender these days to buy some apparatus for the national reference laboratory and we expect that in the first quarter of 2014, we already have the first lab independent, so the milk reference laboratory. We expect to open two more, one should be in Nis and the other should be in Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13809	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13810	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost, I would like to ask you Mr. Stefanovic why no one from the province administration has been invited, since the regional secretary Mr. Jesic was the first to point out this problem? I think it was essential that we invite him to attend the session and perhaps say one of his opinions, and by article 89, you have the possibility to invite him to the Rules of Procedure. Since he was very actively involved in all this, I think you should have done it. As for the very subject of food safety, in our opinion, this is just the ultimate consequence of something that is a systemic problem and indicates that the system is the way it is, and it is foreseen by the Food Safety Act, absolutely not working. On several occasions, we have pointed out that Vojvodina should have competences in the field of agrarian policy that it should in some way create and that inspection services should also be part of at least the jurisdiction of the province's administration. So my question would also be in this direction given that the Minister of Vojvodina -- are there any thoughts on the subject? I think he mentioned that too in his presentation, inspectors are neither well equipped with personnel, nor technically, sitting in municipalities like the Japanese after the war of 60 and some years where they wait for someone to call them from Belgrade and can't even register vehicles. This is a problem that in some ways just stemmed from a bad system that all of them and that they are the most capable people in Belgrade can't be solved in the right way. Also, another question for Mr. Knezevic and Mr. Ljajic, and it concerns a much more serious topic to deal with, at least we from LSV. Given that food security is here on the agenda – is it true, although GM cereals and meat imports are banned in Serbia, is it allowed to import meat from countries where cattle are fed GM food and do we exercise such controls? Since our producers cannot possibly compete with some farmers in Brazil, Argentina, etc. who are using GM cereal right now, and if we know that our livestock fund is the same as it is in the disappearance, is anyone even dealing with this topic and are there any controls?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13811	Before I give my word to Mr. Knezevic, let me just tell you the answer to your first question to me. On the basis of Article 209 of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group, it may set a date for individual ministers in the Government to answer parliamentary questions on the topic. On the other hand, the answers to questions can only be given by those members of the Government designated by the Proposer. So today, only those ministers who are quoted by the motionor in the text of his letter can answer at this session and require that a session, a special session, be called on to ask parliamentary questions. So Mr Jesic could not be here to answer questions because he is not the government minister and because he is not listed in the LDP parliamentary group's request as a person who would answer those questions. Mr. Prince, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13812	I agree with your finding that this is only the result of a system that was established perhaps too soon, perhaps too fast and perhaps in a way that wasn't perhaps good enough. When I talked to the milk producers right around this regulation on the level of aflatoxin of 0.05 some of them were surprised. So those people weren't familiar with that rule being introduced, nor were they given a certain time limit to adapt to it. So, as I said, I agree with the fact that this system needs to be complemented not to change from the root, because these are European criteria, European values that we are seeking. However, our internal infrastructure is not yet adapted to this. So, we need to build it up, we need to make a change to the Food Safety Act and the six laws that we're already working on for the task force that I formed for the ministry like I said. We should work on reorganising inspection services and, of course, on a national reference laboratory that will be in the milk on one hand, taking care of the quality of the milk, primarily because of premiums that have the right to produce manufacturers with better quality milk, and on the other hand, and on the safety of milk. So we predict three such laboratories being one in Belgrade, one in Novi Sad, one in Nis. So there's going to be some decentralisation, and it's certainly going to give a much, much better quality results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13813	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13814	You know that under current law imports of products containing up to 0.9% of genetically modified content are allowed. Your question in place, since there has been a debate for a long time as to whether these products are being controlled, whether this dose is being exceeded, or whether a limit of 0.09 is being exceeded. We have on several occasions asked the Ministry for inspections that control the import of these products and we have received assurances that strict controls are being carried out precisely by those products containing up to 0.9 genetically modified content. We usually have to work on amending this law. These changes will not go in the direction of allowing the production of genetically modified organisms to remain an explicit ban on production. What we're also going to do is significantly sharpen this kind of control for imports of all product types, especially those containing up to this 0.9%. We will do everything that all countries have done in the WTO accession process and we have the right, therefore, to introduce a whole series of restrictive measures to ensure that safe and healthy food is imported.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13815	The word is Mr Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13816	Regarding my comment, as regards the provincial secretary, Mr Jesic, member of 89, says that the National Assembly session, alongside the MPs, is attended by the president and members of the government, authorised representatives and other legislators, the director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, as well as other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly. I think that in some way, although he might not have answered the questions, Mr Jesic could have expressed some of his knowledge and views, given that this is a topic concerning the public and the health of all citizens, so in that sense it was my comment. Regarding the Food Safety Act, and what Minister Ljajic mentioned and concerning genetically modified food, Article 36 says that measures on the safety of food and feed used by other countries will be considered equivalent to those prescribed in the Republic of Serbia, if the exporting country objectively demonstrates that they are scientifically based and that their application provides an adequate level of protection for the lives and health of people required by people in the Republic of Serbia. I think we're still importing non-herbs that are genetically modified beyond this allowed level, but we're importing meat that was produced, and by feeding animals, genetically modified cereals, and I'm not sure what kind of laboratory procedure it is to import that meat, because it's far cheaper than what our farmers and cattlemen are able to produce, and I think that's the topic we should be dealing with, so I'm drawing attention to, since we've had an initiative from several associations from the Vojvodina that have brought us attention to that thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13817	Let me just tell you about this. In principle, you would be right if this session had not been defined by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure set out in Chapter 14. Chapter 14 is called - the procedure of control of the government's work and does not apply to regular sessions of parliament. So, it applies exclusively to parliamentary control, the control of the work of the Serbian Government, and I believe that the committees of the assembly can be much broader to discuss this issue and may call for a much wider circle of personalities that could provide answers to different questions about the interests of the National Assembly and in this sense, I support that everyone be invited to this assembly and to answer questions, only in this case it would not be possible. Do any of the ministers want to respond? The next reported MP is Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13818	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues, several times while this crisis was going on, I said, and I want to say that once again, that there was no direct danger to people's health, and there was no room for panic with my colleague Arpad, and that was not a good thing that took the picture we had. I think if it had to break out somewhere, something in the food safety system, it's good to make it happen so that basically no one is at risk. That is among other issues for the health minister, for Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, if we can rely on this assessment. As for Mr. Knezevic and Mr. Ljajic, I have here for both questions. What I'm curious about is what would be done again or what could have been done since September or October, if I remember correctly, when we first saw, when we received information that we had this fungal disease that later caused the aflatoxin to occur, because I think it's the essence of things. How are we going to stand up to all this, if we have a dry year again, and if in August and September we see that we will find ourselves more or less the same situation as we had this year. What I still firmly believe is that we have remained in a situation where we have 1500 or 1700 agronoms that have been at the service of farmers, large and small, and that we have kept such a system of advisory services as was established, I am sure that the risk of such a situation would be far lower and that communication between competent state institutions and farmers would be far better. What I think Mr. Ljajic, and perhaps Mr. Knezevic could tell us, is what are the estimates of the damage that has taken place, the damage to agricultural producers, above all for dairy producers, and on the other hand, the damage to processors. What I think is also very important to say is that the rule has been changed. At the time, I was the Minister of Agriculture, and I signed that Regulation. We can have different estimates that we have, whether it was mature or not, but, in any case, what Minister Knezevic said, over 600 checks were done during 2012 and there were no aflatoxins. So everyone in the production and processing systems had more than enough time to adapt to the new Regulation, but the natural circumstances were such that this problem did not exist, so I think it's very important that this very unpleasant situation, for those who have had the damage very painful, we use it and see what we do next time this happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13819	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13820	Yes, MP Petrovic found something to be a fact. There were no health hazards, but respect for certain standards, including, of course, the standard that should be pursued as low as possible with M1 aflatoxin in milk is something that is really necessary for us to go as a society. This, of course, is not so simple and without previous standards relating to standardisation related to certain substances, not only aflatoxin, in livestock food, it is simply not possible to get to what would be the smallest, but what the expert bodies of the World Health Organization have been doing, what experts of our renowned institutions have been saying on the media these days, I mean, primarily, to VMA toxicologists, to public health experts, to inspection service experts, is that the limit of 0.05 micrograms per kilogram and 0.5 micrograms per kilogram does not significantly increase, i.e. does not give a different risk of getting sick and those effects that may be undesirable in the longer term. One of the parameters is the fact that over a period of 10 years, when in our country the concentration of aflatoxin was allowed to be 0.5 micrograms per kilogram from 2000 to 2010, it states in favour of this attitude. There was no increase in liver cancer during this period. On the contrary, there was a decrease, and yet we had this value. That, of course, doesn't mean that the global estimates that already exist about that it's good to go to as low as possible and standards, we have to kind of ignore them. They must be our priority, and that's why so-called. alara of recommendations, which means that this percentage of aflatoxin should be as low as possible, and the lower it is, the better it is, is the goal we have to pursue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13821	The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13822	First, I'd like to answer for these assistant advisors. You and I disagree on that for a few reasons. Yes, we need them, but not in that way and not in that much scope. I think that's enough for today's debate. The project was completed last year. We want to hire a number of these people. The other day I spoke to their representatives, and they will be engaged, primarily on this aflatoxin project and on the irrigation project, as soon as possible, through a new project provided in the 2013 budget. I think that these are two extremely significant projects and one part of these experts will surely be engaged in the next period. As for the possible prevention and what was said, there was still a contamination of the corn that led to these milk problems last fall and that the Ministry of Agriculture allegedly ignored such a warning, it's completely untrue. You know, the Brussels Health Directorate reported 760 tonnes of infected corn originating in Serbia in 10 months 2012. Of course we went through all these papers and asked for a report and asked how it could be resolved. We came to the conclusion that this corn was removed from Old Paz and that it stood in Croatia for over two months. The question is in which way and the question is how it is stored, so it was not possible to trace and determine the origin of that corn. It's the only problem we had in 2012 with so-called Infected corn. In late November 2012, the director of one of the laboratories from Subotica, which was not accredited for aflatoxin testing, published in its exclusive article a list of "Madriar So" with the data that 70% of the mercantile corn in Serbia was infected with aflatoxin. Of course, our media is eager for sensations, the eager circulation has passed on that information. You know, when the truth has been repeated repeatedly, it becomes true at one point. We formed an inter-resorship commission immediately afterwards, and within the Ministry, we formed a working group that was composed of agricultural, veterinary and phytosanitary inspectors and controlled all public warehouses, the largest silos and livestock food factories. That's when we found that corn infection was about 7%. We also held a press conference and informed the public and took measures to prevent the spread of panic among citizens. I think three lobbies contributed to the whole October and November story last year. One lobby is an exporting lobby, which will put itself in a position to make huge profits by importing corn and importing raw milk by talking about poisoned corn and poisoned milk. The second lobby, which he was talking about earlier, and colleague Stojshin is a GMO lobby. The third lobby is the policy and desire of some political parties to threaten the village and threaten the peasants and try to create a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13823	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13824	As for the extent of the damage as a consequence of this affair, they're moving very differently. There's been an uncanny assessment of the damage. The only thing we have at our disposal are estimates of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, so that the total damage from the start of the crisis to its end could be between 100m and 125m euros. What we have come up with through our analysis is that milk and dairy exports have dropped significantly. The total market, you know better than I do, is worth about $590 million in the dairy industry, and we export 70 to 90 million depending on the year to year. Some milkers have completely suspended their exports. I don't mention the names of those milkmen here on purpose. Another major milkmaker reduced exports even by 37.8%, the next 42.5%, then 29.5%. So it's significantly less export than last year, which is not only true, the result of this affair. On the other hand, retail traffic has also fallen significantly. We've analyzed six of the largest trade chains here. I'm not going to mention their names again, but traffic has mostly dropped from five to even 27% since the crisis began to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13825	The word is Mr. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13826	Mr. Knezevic and I are leading this controversy around the counselors. I think we've had a significantly reduced risk around this thing and about some other topics, a greater chance of people dealing with agriculture making more money than they're earning that in 3,000 villages now, they're being helped by 1,700 agronomists. It's very important to me what Mr. Ljajic said. So, 100m euros or 80m euros or 120m euros, the agronomial budget would not be greater than two billion dinars per year, but we and the people who deal with it as their primary work in colleges and who make good proposals to improve the system. What I think is very important, so I think it's important to examine what you said. I suppose you've started it all and it would be very important to suppress, I mean in national proportions, the harmful functioning of such stakeholders if we can really support it with evidence, and it would be important to get rid of it. As far as systemic access is concerned, what I think might be a good lesson from all of this, when, and if it happens to us, not only about aflatoxin, but also about other things, that the food safety system, which is such, in fact, you'd say producers are the ones who carry the risk, so they have to control it all, that it's very important for the state to impose preventively mandatory controls in those situations that they turn out to be risky. I think that when we met there in the fall, or if we met this year, it would certainly be good to make a decision about mandatory analyses, where risks appear, and then avoid all this damage and public disturbance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13827	Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13828	Here's just a very short one. Yeah, that's exactly what we're doing. Here it is right now in the process of controlling the inter-resorial, so between the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture, we are again controlling silos and public warehouses for two reasons. So let's first figure out how many corn we can put into use, and on the other hand, let's see how many corn it is, because we have one free estimate that it's about 31% infected with aflatoxin and see what it can be used for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13829	National MP Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13830	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, we have been following through various media discussions in Serbia for months whether healthy milk is being drank in Serbia or not. As a member of the Single Serbia programme, which puts first care for ethnicity in Serbia, for children, for youth, etc. It is very important for us to have our children, our children, our young ones, and others, in their old and late years, drink quality and healthy milk. However, we cannot help but feel that this so-called aflatoxin affair is slightly raised to a very high level, for political or political reasons, and there was no place to discuss it so much. In some other countries that we would have to look up to and when it comes to these, to say little problems in increasing the percentage of aflatoxins in milk, however, it is solved in a different way, means no pomp, no political games, etc. We are under the impression that something else has been trying to work out here, that someone has tried to make small farmers, small farmers living off milk production, put in a different plan, and that some importers are in place, import lobbys are still influential, strong, and that they want to benefit from the backs of the troubled and poor Serbian peasant. Unique Serbia has opposed it, will always oppose it, because we are in favour of developing our village, to allow us to have a peasant live from his work, that a producer, a farmer, who has several cows, can live on that milk, but at the same time we advocate that the milk be healthy, because there is certainly no one in this hall who wants the Serbian child to use non-healthy milk. We're asking if the child in America, Russia and China is in a different position if he drinks milk that has more in him according to certain knowledge of aflatoxins? That's why I'm asking two questions. Is it one thing in Serbia that Serbian citizens and children eat healthy food, that is, does they drink healthy milk and whom we should trust in this regard because if a politician says bad milk is produced in Serbia, and a top toxinologist who has been recognized and beyond the borders of this country says we should drink a few dozen tons of milk, so that we are in danger of getting sick from an increased percentage of aflatoxin, who do you believe? We in the Unity of Serbia trust more recognised experts than some politicians, and I would say to politicians. The second question is whether there is any statistical evidence that since the percentage of aflatoxins in milk decreased two, three years ago, there has been a reduction in the number of children in Serbia or the case is reversed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13831	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13832	It seems to me that we have already provided enough information on the safety aspect of the effects of aflatoxin on different categories and age groups. It is good that we are particularly interested in the subject and that we focus our attention on the youngest, so the issue of food for infants and milk used by children. According to the 2009 Food Safety Act, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management is responsible for certain milk inspection activities. However, the Ministry of Health is responsible for the control of children's products, including food for infants and young children, food for people with diet, for weight loss, food for special medical purposes, for those who are also intolerant to gluten, for salt for human consumption, salts, additives, aromas, Ezemic preparations of non-animal origin, as well as the aid of non-animal origin, drinking water and water for public water supply of the population is also in charge of inspection services of the Ministry of Health. In this regard, I can say that during the previous period, especially at a time when MPs are interested, the limits to which M1 aflatoxin was in breast milk have never crossed 0.025 micrograms per kilogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13833	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13834	It's not really my topic about this health work, but the government of the Republic of Serbia from the prime minister, the first vice-president, the Minister of Agriculture, to the health minister, received a letter from Dr. Zivorad Vukovic, scientific adviser to the Institute of Nuclear Sciences from Belgrade. I'd like to ask you, it'll take 25 seconds for me to read you some parts of his letter. As a scientific worker who has been dealing with environmental problems for decades and the implementation of international and domestic standards in action of importance for national security and citizens' health, I know how little it takes to solve specific problems can easily turn into an irrational media case with multiple adverse consequences. I thought it was important to hear the word of experts and scientists who will also help to find solutions in line with the state interests based on experience in solving the consequences of disasters and elemental disasters that occur on a daily basis in different locations of our planet. One of these experiences in our country is the resolution of a catastrophic incident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in 1984. The international community, on a proposal from top experts for the area, has organised rules allowing the concentration of radionuclides in the environment and of life supplies, temporarily increase ten times over a two-year period. The rules at the time proved to have been effective and to minimise the adverse effects of such an accent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13835	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13836	As the topic of today's food security sessions in the Republic of Serbia and citizens' health, standards and responsibilities for their implementation, no one has mentioned protection and other products on the same time, and not only milk. Today we are in agriculture at the time of the start of spring work when largely we use various types of pesticides and insecticides in fruit growing, warfare, etc. and they can in many ways affect the quality and regularity of food produced in Serbia. My question, on behalf of Unity Serbia, is the Ministry of Agriculture, will the control of importers importing various protective products, pesticides, insecticides and others be strengthened, given that domestic production cannot meet the needs of Serbian agriculture, Serbian fruit and warfare for the team? Will control be tightened, given that there are cases of importing these types of protective products into large barrels, so to speak, in large packs, and then repacking in Serbia in small packages? The question is, is that enough and does that not reduce the percentage of those pesticides' strength to the fact of the various insects? That's why it comes to this with a Serbian fruit or wartime producer, knowing earlier times when they were cheated and light about the strength of these protective means, always putting in a larger amount for his own use, to protect his orchard or some other war product, so that the land is poisoned, that the fruit industry suffers certain consequences. So I repeat the question - will the Ministry's control, or inspection services, be strengthened, that we have real insecticides and pesticides in those quantities and that strength that is needed for protection in fruit and warfare?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13837	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13838	The other day I received information from my professional services that Serbia is among the leading countries in Europe by spending pesticides per capita and per hectare. It's a worrying piece of information. Probably part of it goes to the gray economy, so it's being smuggled and exported, but even if half of it were, the data would be worrying again. We're going with weather-reporting services, which are now expanding and doing such control, soon have that data, and you'll be informed about it, and of course we'll be working on control of it, because it's as much as aflatoxin, maybe even much, much more harmful and has even worse consequences for the national economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13839	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected gentlemen of the Ministers, respected to the public of Serbia, what we are today, asking ministers about food security, we were able to see together, that food is primarily nowhere safe, and that is one intensities to all of us, because here we are in our place under the sun, which is Serbia. It is good that the minister presented some information that Serbia's public today will certainly receive otherwise because it comes from this high house, above all, whose interests were to raise one such affair. Any problem that arises in agriculture arises longer than it is karenca and is removed much longer than it is karenca. Those who do agriculture know exactly what timing I'm talking about. However, what I want to ask as a matter of both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health, is that it is precisely in the course of the creation of a regulation on which the Department of Health and Veterinary Research Institutes are working, which is a rule on the programme of animal health measures. Given the use of hormones and antibiotics in animal health, I think it would be very good, i.e. I hope that the health ministry is ready for its scientific capabilities to engage in making one of these rules, because animal health is directly reflected in human health, I say again, precisely because of the use of antibiotics and the use of hormones. I hope that there is the will of both ministries to include in such an important problem all the scientific capacities available at this time to the Government and I hope that we will get some real information about this, at this point, that the public of Serbia will be informed of how much co-operation is possible. Another question I'd like to ask Mr. Minister has just opened one question, which is the reconstruction of inspection services. So are there any deadlines in which it sees the possibility of realisation, the reorganisation of inspection services that are very important, because strengthening the capacity of official control is very important at this point in Serbia? What I think is that, from this moment on, in collaboration with the media that we have already talked about, we need to start as an important issue, it is just to strengthen our awareness, raise citizens' awareness of food safety. So food security is a global problem, and it exists in order not to manipulate data, with numbers from uninformed citizens, with citizens who do not have enough awareness of what is important and what is irrelevant, or what is not important, it is necessary to raise awareness from these most referenced houses – the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, which are called on to take care of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13841	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13842	The issue of co-operation of individual ministries may have found its full application not only in these circumstances when we solved the aflatoxin problem, but also of course when we bring different sublaws. The topic you are interested in is the topic of the Ministry of Agriculture, but it is certain that for the health of citizens it is extremely important what is with hormones in animal products and sure that giving consent to all acts by our Ministry of Agriculture means that we will include our expert teams, the republican expert committees and the most competent experts whose representatives sit on my right, to bring in acts that are ultimately in the interest of citizens' health.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13843	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13844	With regard to the reconstruction of these inspection services, you know that this depends neither on the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Ministry of Health. You don't say free – how much money, how much music. We, at the beginning of the year, gave a plan to join the workforce for this year, and now in March of the month, we call a competition, where we will receive 39 new inspectors in a permanent working relationship. We have huge problems in that service. You just take it that it takes five years for an inspector to train him to work, and we already have one big part of the people who are retired. So we're trying to rebuild it, we're trying to do it, but depending on a lot of factors on the side. This year, I think, we need to receive a total of 211 people, one of which is going to be inspectors right on the ground, because they are precisely for our food safety the most interesting and important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13845	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13846	You have raised one issue that is very important and that awaits us, whether this or another government, which is a reform of inspection services in Serbia. And last time we talked here, when it came to amending the Trade Act, about market inspection. There are two models that have been thinking about for a long time, but there is still no decision to take that reform. As you know, we have a whole series of inspections in Serbia, and if one of them had no coordination, no co-operation, no integration of these inspections, and therefore it was thought of either forming a general inspectorate that would be a roof institution for all inspections or another model, to remain current inspections, but with far better and more effective coordination between them than is the case now. Therefore, it awaits us sooner or later, unrelated to sanitary, market or agricultural inspection. That's one big job. A major reform must occur in inspection services, in order to make them significantly more effective than now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13847	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13848	I thank you for the minister's answers. I think that the public of Serbia just wanted to hear something so concrete and something that could be promising in the period ahead of us. Of course, I urge the media to deal more with what will be truly informative for citizens rather than just sensationalist inscriptions. I would refer to a brief finding made by Minister Knezevic, for me as a national MP, and as a citizen, it was an interesting piece of information, it doesn't even have to comment on it, but he said – we are opening reference national laboratories and surely, in this period, I expect it to be realised in the term of office of this government. One interesting piece of information, twice earlier, a national reference laboratory was opened, which never began to work. That's interesting information for the citizens, and that should be known. Hawla to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13849	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13850	Dear President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question will be focused on Mr. Knezevic. During today's discussion, fellow MPs discussed European standards, the regulations within which our country has been harmonized, and I will not repeat that. What I'm saying is that in our agricultural production and in our fields, aflatoxin is not known since yesterday or last year, it's long ago, not only in our country but also in many more developed countries of the world present. I think when it comes to aflatoxin in milk, focus is placed on the wrong aspect and we have to deal with a comprehensive strategy that would define healthy food production, quality control and food safety. I know the Ministry of Agriculture in seven months couldn't have had time to bring in such a comprehensive strategy. The first question would be focused on this – is such a strategy working and will it be able to be implemented at full capacity? And not to talk about what we're going to do if this situation happens again, but to do everything preventively so that in this situation and this kind of thing in the National Assembly and in other circles we wouldn't be discussing, but in the scientific circles and in the circles of the ministries that are responsible for these issues and these problems. The second question concerns the fact that our agricultural producers use Zeolite as a prevention of the storage of livestock. The Zeolith itself cannot solve the problems of agricultural toxicities quite complexly. It refers to antibiotics, pesticides, heavy metals, myco toxins, and radioactive particles. It is therefore necessary to approach a complex solution to this problem. We in the SDPS are interested – whether there are other preparations that are effective and that can be applied and solved not only aflatoxins, but all toxins in the food of plant origin that they consume both animals and humans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13851	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13852	One of our obligations under the European Commission's 2012 progress report on Serbia was a strategy, and the other was the Encouragement Act. As you know, the Encouragement Act has been passed a while ago, so our agricultural producers can now spend years in advance planning their agricultural production, which is certainly clear now. On the other hand, we formed one working group to write strategies and to create a strategy, which was an obligation since 2009 under the Agriculture Act. Unfortunately, it wasn't done until today. Of course, what you said, the goal is to make that strategy applicable. All this rest is onions and water. This is, in principle, what we had in some previous period, not only from agriculture but also from other areas, and I also talked to my colleague Selakovic, where 10-15 laws of law and justice cannot be applied at all, from some other areas. So some rules, agricultural standards could not be applied. We want to make such a law that will be applicable, because only such a law can be passed, that is, a strategy can bring improvement and make a step for all of us. As we all concluded, agriculture, it's very clear, is our strategic branch, along with energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13853	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13854	Organic and inorganic absorbents are substances that pull various substances, eliminate them, have no unwanted effects and can actually solve problems very effectively. That's part of the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13855	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13856	Dear Minister Knezevic, my question is – when can we expect to form inter-resor working groups that will better, more intensively coordinate the work of ministries in such matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13857	The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13858	This is what Slavica Djukić Dejanovic said earlier, that we will certainly make such teams and that without one coordination, not only in the legislative part but also in this part of the application, means, in inspection services, we must have not only coordination but we must make some reorganisation, possibly make a different division and maybe change the Law on Ministrys and everything else. It turns out that this shows, let's say, the least of all, incoordination in some action, so it's very difficult to organize it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13859	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13860	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear why this session was called for and that the topic is more than current. The latest developments in milk have caused great controversy in the public, but also great confusion among consumers, ordinary citizens who certainly do not understand, nor want to follow the technical regulations on the correctness of food and agricultural products on our market, but they want to make sure that they feed on products that are not dangerous to their lives and their children's lives. All contradictions of information that we were exposed to with regard to the levels of aflatoxin in milk and whether they were harmful or not were of no benefit to anyone, nor to the country itself, who lost the rating of its agricultural products for which certain countries banned imports, so we lost export foreign exchange income, nor to producers, nor to the employees of the dairy industry, who lost their normal incomes and profits by reducing consumption, whether or not the product had been contaminated, or to the citizens themselves, who had no real knowledge of whose milk had the permitted level of aflatoxin, so for a long time they solved the most basic provisions of life. This is not just about milk, since no one in the public mentioned or paid attention to the fact that these aflatoxins at even more dangerous concentrations can be found in meat and meat processing that we buy in stores. We have witnessed that the press has written about the appearance of parasites in certain species of fish, the occurrence of swine fever on certain farms, the allegations that our apples have an unauthorized and large degree of pesticide in them, that individuals are processing plant waste into chocolates, etc., and that from the official place, we as citizens, have not had any confirmation or denials for these inscriptions which certainly cannot leave anyone indifferent. So my questions are primarily addressed to the Ministry of Health and Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, which are – what will the government do to raise the level of safety of the quality of all kinds of food specifically? Will strict legal and sublegal rules be finally adopted to clearly define the quality of food products in order to avoid public confusion spreading? Will it work to curb illegal production of sales and food smuggling, and will procedures be carried out and determine whether there have been any failures and responsibilities of manufacturers and inspection bodies in the already mentioned affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13861	Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13862	Aflatoxin M is metabolised so that within half an hour its blood concentration is maximum, for the clock is in the liver. It is relatively rapidly eliminated from the body, and it biles 60% through the bile and other amounts via urine and milk. It practically means he can't be in the flesh.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13863	Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13864	You didn't ask me, but I'm sorry, I'd have to say something on your line that all these affairs and writing in the media didn't do Serbia any good. Yes, of course. Of course, I was, frankly, disappointed in our media and at all in our approach to this whole affair, in this whole case when my guests were ministers of agriculture from the environment. Believe me, the exact same results, the exact same problem - Bosnia and Herzegovina 1.125 samples, 192 invalid, Croatia closed over 600 farms, Republika Srpska over 200 tonnes of milk from Hungary under lockup, because it has a high amount of aflatoxin. Did we hear anything in public that was going on there? We heard it as news from the agency. It's been two days, they've moved, they've made a consensus, they've agreed on how to overcome and the only way they can and have done the least damage to their farmers, their peasants and processors and exporters and the whole country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13865	National MP Ljubica Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13866	I thank the ministers, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic and Mr from the Ministry of Agriculture. I am aware that absolutely 100% control of all kinds of food from the field to the table, from absolutely every manufacturer and trader cannot be achieved. They can't do that much more developed countries than our own. Just now, the EU recently happened to sell horsemeat instead of beef. But on the other hand, we all share the generally accepted position that these phenomena must be brought to mind in the least possible way and the minimum for the safety of the population. In this last affair, special emphasis is placed on the harmfulness of contaminated milk by children and their development. With that, I have a few more questions. Have the cases of those affected by these food failures already been recorded? Whether adequate measures will be taken to prevent this toxicity and whether a special system of production of milk control and supply for children is considered, i.e. In order to determine certain milk farmers that would produce milk which would be completely devoid of suspicion that it contains aflatoxins in order to ensure the correctness of this milk and, of course, that its price is not drastically above the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13867	Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13868	We've never registered aflatoxosis, there's never been any side effects in that sense. As for food for infants, I have already given some information that is still on the very rigid border of 0.025 micrograms per kilogram of milk, in fact, the concentration of this toxin is allowed, and it has never been during this period that we were interested in, and I don't think there was any reason to think that we were at risk. Should we work on organising lab work with the highest standards possible? Whether specialized labs should function in a way that we don't have to send our samples anywhere out of the country, I'm sure that's where we agree. It is necessary, but when we adopt the budget as the basic law passed by the MPs, we need to think a little bit about us being in these circumstances and because the separations are for inspection jobs, for our laboratories are quite modest and then our wishes don't match the real financial potential most often. Our professional potential in this area is truly remarkable.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13869	MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13870	President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be very specific. The first question is for Mr Stefanovic – why didn't you call this session on March 5th, when she asked for the LDP parliamentary group, but only 10 days later, while you sent us messages from abroad to fight for cheap political points? The second question is – how did you allow today's session to be without those invited by the Rules of Procedure, above all I think of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Mrs Grubjesic, but I am much more interested in why Mr Dacic is not there? We received a notice through the Secretary of the Assembly, and her letter was sent by Mr. Odalovic that Mr. Ivica Dacic is on the official route. On what exactly is the official route and where is Mr. Dacic? My third question is, Mr. Knezevic, I don't think you're the worst minister in this government. Unfortunately, it doesn't say much about your qualities, it says much more about how low the quality of some of your colleagues are, among other things, those who have been invited here today and come to this session without any order and any sense of making any of us and of ourselves some kind of showing responsibility to the government. There are ministers who cannot respond. Why don't I still think you, Mr. Duke, are the worst minister? As long as Minister Nikola Selakovic or Mr. Bacevic can't be the worst. You mentioned Mr. Selakovic. It's true...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13871	Mr. Djuric, this isn't a session that... Especially when you call ministers who don't have the opportunity to answer. (National Ambassador Ivan Andric throws out of place. I'm sorry, Mr. Andric, I just want to say I'm having a session and the session is being held in the Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13872	Mr. Stefanovic, my time is running out. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13873	We'll get your time back. Don't worry. I want to warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. So, you here need to ask a question about the subject that's listed in the summary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13874	We're not at Megatrend University.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13875	I'm giving you a warning and I'm asking you to come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13876	No one has yet died of what happened to milk and food safety, Mr. Princeevich, but there is still some order. That order was owed to this country, as some other ministers whose comrades hang on Facebook page a gun that killed the country's prime minister. Mr. Knezevic, exactly how many regulations are there that you are currently estimating are not in sync with each other and that in the near future they can produce harmful consequences similar to this one? The fourth question is – why did you allow when you had already changed one rule so as not to change other regulations and that in this situation you still have circumstances or the rule that beef feed should be held ten times less aflatoxin than milk for people and children? How can you, Mr. Prince...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13877	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13878	You can't even count, and you didn't learn that at your college.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13879	I give you a second warning. Mr. Prince, do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13880	I want a word. Mr. Gjuric, you probably won't be satisfied with the answer, but let me say that because of certain objective circumstances, we haven't been able to do everything we need for these seven months. We're working on it. I hope that within a relatively short time, we can do this. We have over 100 different regulations whose consequences of these regulations, some of these regulations can only be observed in practice. This is exactly the rule of aflatoxin that was brought in 2011 and a real great drought, the elemental disaster in 2012 caused the problem that it could practically not be applicable. So, if we had a neat year last year, like we had every year, there might not have been a problem like this. With every year, according to one scientific study that we have received, we have opportunities between 5-10% of aflatoxins in corn, due to inadequate storage, due to various other things. So here we go, so we're working on it. I'll try to let you know in writing. I can't tell you exactly, we have hundreds of regulations. I'm telling you we're working on amendments to the Food Safety Act, which is over, and another six or seven follow-up acts. It's practically already done. We expect that through a public debate, we will end it and be very soon in the Assembly, and as far as these regulations are concerned, there will certainly be much, much work to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13881	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13882	I'd like to point out, Mr. Duke, another situation. Do you feel any kind of responsibility? You could have come out of this in a much more elegant way. In parallel with an affair of milk, i.e. food safety, there was also a problem with the cure, or it is some kind of a supplement, I will be corrected by Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, a folic who is very important in the diet, especially pregnant women. In this case, the Ministry of Health and the competent agency reacted in a much better and more quality way, which allowed this medicine to be withdrawn preventively, or one particular series, with a shelf pharmacy, and afterwards to be introduced and all other quantities. So it's possible in these conditions, in this kind of poverty, to enforce the law. You've transferred this to a political field, trying to get some kind of political benefit out of it, and that's why we acted this way. The second question – did you receive a request from the LDP that clearly states that we are expecting a list of non-compliant regulations? Then perhaps you could answer me, but today, how many non-compliant regulations are there? You didn't answer this question for the cattle. I think it's very dangerous. All we politicians have is a word and credibility, and that's why we suffer this much damage. This isn't a question, this is a request for you. Don't talk like that about your colleagues in the region, you'll get them and us into trouble. All the time you're implying that they were doing some kind of fraud with their results and that they agreed, they reached a consensus and that that's why they didn't have any problems. There aren't just agencies here. Anyone who monitors Croatian news or media will see how much trouble your colleague Jakovina had with this case and some other items. Please don't do this anymore. Answer me these questions, if you are able. I don't know why you're so upset about Mr. Stefanovic, we're talking about a particular problem. I didn't mention a foot or a foot.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13883	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13884	I didn't say this example from the environment, nor did I think they made any kind of fraud or that they wanted someone to cheat on. I was talking about some national consensus, I was talking about some things that matter, not just for one political group, one interested group, but that are important for the whole people and for all citizens. It was transferred to the political sphere with us, and it's obvious. No one can convince me that it's not politics if it comes out in public with untrusted and unprofessional results, which have not been checked. So it comes out through Twitter and all the daily newspapers with big headlines that milk is poisoned, life-threatening. After that, it follows that no one is offended, a pathetic statement that we are poisoning someone's children, so when I mention that I have four children and that my children are drinking milk, then I am a monster who poisons their children and is said to be large. It initiated me to say that it was one political thing and that it was run in the field of politics. We've sat down many times with the provincial Department of Agriculture and discussed all the current things. We sat down when it was a drought, so we brought together measures. We sat down when it came to the huge investment of the United Arab Emirates about irrigation, so we sat down and agreed. The 18th is coming up in PDF format, where something's been erased in the photoshop, and it's coming out on Twitter right now, it's coming out tomorrow in the paper, and now we need to talk and see how we can get past it. Yeah, we wanted to do that, but I don't think we had a talker who wanted to get over it that way, but he chose someone else, in my opinion, very incorrect, and above all initiated by politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13885	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13886	Mr. Djuric mentioned Folic, a medicine used to treat anaemia. In a pharmacy in Nis, our drug inspector found, first suspected, and later found that this form of medicine in that pharmacy did not have the usual, or necessary concentration of folic acid, active substance for which it is given. That's why he was withdrawn. There was nothing planned. It is about regular activities carried out by the Health Ministry inspection services.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13887	The word is made by MP Nikola Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13888	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, today on the agenda in this highest house of politics we have one topic that is absolutely not political. The theme is healthy food, healthy milk. I don't think the representatives of the opposition, nor the representatives of the position have any interest or political interest in collecting political points through this problem. What has made Serbian politics very exciting in recent days, as well as the common people, is that the press mentions very toxic matter that causes liver cancer, which is found in a particular fungi, which is in infected corn. I'm an intern, a gastroenterologist, and I know very well what liver cancer is. Liver cancer occurs in patients who have cirrhosis, who have hepatitis B and hepatitis C. I think that the use of milk with a dose in America is 0.5, in the EU 0.05, as the minister said earlier, does not cause a toxic effect on liver disease. We've got a lot of people who've been using alcohol for years, drinking brandy, wine, and getting cirrhosis. He shows up at the doctor's and the first advice is to break up with alcohol. What are they drinking? They drink milk. Do you think if someone who has cirrhosis drinks milk for a year, two will get liver cancer because they drank milk with a percentage of 0.5 or 0.05? My question, for the sake of the public, has the world been questioned for how long and what amount of milk it takes to cause some toxic fact on the organism, unrelated to whether it's children or adults? I'm that clearance of these toxic substances through the organism is very short. The explanations made by the Ministry of Agriculture, or veterinary inspection, said that two or three days of not feeding cattle to that infected substance, these are concentrates, whether in which it is located, cattle uninfected corn to eat, have the elimination of that substance. My question, for the sake of the public, is, are there any data as to how long and quantitative, what concentration, how long?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13889	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13890	Experts say that such studies were not done, the estimates would be flat-rate, but what is a fact is that with known elements there are immunomodulatory, carcinogenic, teratogenic, mutagenic effects of aflatoxin in large amounts on the organism, on man. The fact is that both individual responses and individual properties play an extremely large role in the etiopathogenesis of hepatic diseases. So, people with cirrhosis or hepatitis C are already at an incomparably greater risk than others and it is safe to assume then that the same concentration does not work exactly the same, but that individual response is also important. But from the fact that there are no studies in the world in this area, we can conclude that we are a little concerned with cholastic issues. Can the devil be on top of the needle?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13891	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13892	Thank you, Mr. President. I will speak very quickly because I have a lot of material and a lot of questions I would like to get answers on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. So, Serbian citizens rightly fear what is in their plate, as food security concerns, the affair is coming up. The completely wrong reactions and solutions of the Serbian government in case of contaminated corn, you said. He revealed to us the Brussels affair, then Italy, then the milk, which after a very serious story was transferred to the political field and where the two political parties were racing which they were going to compete with, not worrying about how scared they were. In the end, now this story of apples with pesticides, where we got information from Russia. All of this has led to citizens being truly full of mistrust and with manufacturers, on the one hand, and with God and the state, which obviously must provide a food safety system, but is not being able to do so. I don't want to talk about how much it is and how much damage it's done to our farm. I think it's a permanent shame. I think it's a shame first of all that we've lost a great reputation in the world, but we haven't lost a lot of materially. Now it's already been said about the damage of several hundred million euros. Although the authorities insist that food is safe and that they are in control, I have to ask a question - where do they control food, if we don't have a national reference laboratory? If they answer me that we have 47 different accredited laboratories, which are mostly privately owned, then they have to answer another question, which is – how is it possible that the same sample that is given, in this case, milk, gets completely diametrically opposite results and hundreds of percent different? So, when you're talking about it, answer me immediately, and the fact about the old rules that test everything and everything on certain products, but it's not being questioned when it comes to meat, let's say hormones, antibiotics, heavy metals very rarely, almost negligible. The food safety law, apart from the national laboratory, says that national food safety councils need to be established for full application of the law. I warn you, the law was passed three years ago. The last government, of course, didn't do anything, and seven months neither did this government. Please, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, take care of the deadlines and respect them. Now, the question to Mr. Knezevic – why is the food security control of imports concerned with plant and animal food of mixed origin, a changed directive? You changed it in October of 2012. Only 150 samples can be taken as much as possible now. I have to say, just so we can track it, in the last directive, one laboratory worked 750 samples a month. Who, and on what criteria, has made such a decision? Now something about meat, because I want to deal with it. According to former Minister Dulic Markovic, more than 40mkg of meat fed by GMOs were imported from July 2009 to August 2011. I've got an answer that was delivered to me by the competent service, and it says it's not competent to control it, it's a competent country of origin, and two countries of origin have authorised GMO food and do not need a declaration. Answer me these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13893	The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13894	I'll start what I wrote down. You were talking about the food safety system, which we said was a particular problem and had to suffer certain changes. Yeah, we're working on it. When will it be? I expect it will be as soon as possible, because we need to do a few more things. You were talking about 49 accredited labs. I think we've signed 42 contracts with accredited labs. We don't have a national reference lab. Your question was – how did we get different results? Even in one laboratory, where we worked those 302 samples, we got three different results from one sample of milk. It's about a billionth of a kilo. They're probably very sensitive devices, for which our accredited labs are probably not ready yet, because aflatoxin is only almost being tested, so I can tell you that they're probably not even verifiable in these things yet. Even the results we got from the Netherlands from our information, the only accredited milk lab in Europe, we got the results that have tolerance plus minus 29%. So they're putting in certain deviations, too, so that's probably the case with our labs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13895	The word has Ministerial Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13896	In our country there are accredited laboratories for certain foods, for milk and dairy products. What is a fact, it is that when the limits for the concentrations of aflatoxin in milk are respected, it is thus ensured that food use and all dairy products are safe, but it is the fact that the concentration of this toxin in dairy products is three to five times higher than in milk itself, but safety is provided. That's exactly why these limits matter. On the other hand, we are relatively close both by mentality and by much, Italy has for certain products, for example for so-called so-called products. heavy cheeses, for example, parmesan, allowed concentration of 0.45 micrograms in relation to some other cheeses, where the concentration is 0.20 grams, because they protect their national product.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13897	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13898	Thank you. That's only partly what I want to ask. The next thing is about meat again and the work of the veterinary service, which I have been warning about for several years, because it is obvious that this service, which should be the first on the public health defender of citizens, is concerned about animal health and animal products, about milk, meat, eggs and all the products that come from them, has been torn apart and clearly there is no system. Seven months of practical measures have not been taken. The vets live from today to tomorrow and are not involved in this control. Let me tell you the information that out of the 400 veterinary inspectors, Mr. Minister, you have, 80 of them have a license. By law, each of them has to have a license so he can work on his own. Now, only 80 of them have licenses, and yet they're working on their own. He should make decisions that depend on the health of Serbian citizens. Then answer me the next thing. The rule you have and which says it is allowed to find ingredients in human nutrition that are not allowed in the EU even in pet food, I quote, former Republic veterinary inspector Miroslav Stojsic said. So, I didn't make anything up, and I'd like to get facts and information from you. Because, look, just this little detail here that I have the paper, that's the information I've collected about all sorts of horrors -- let it sell carcinogenic meat, etc. So, from how you're going to get the wind back into legal flows, because right now you have a fully gray zone and a slaughterhouse industry one-third and everything else, it's up to the health of Serbian citizens. The vets say next. In August of last year, you could be told from animal health that an epidemic of aflatoxin is being prepared. Speaking of which, please answer me how much aflatoxin is allowed in meat and in eggs, because I would like to compare what I have on the data of Belgium, Germany, France and other countries. That's interesting for Serbian citizens. By the way, it's kind of weird for me that something called toxin isn't toxic. I'm sorry and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13899	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13900	I don't have all the information and I can't really answer most of your questions. I'll deliver, if you don't mind, the answers very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13901	The word is a national letter from Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13902	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers of Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I would like to ask the question of Health Minister Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Despite the fact that you, Madam Minister, have, since the very occurrence of the problem of increased aflatoxin levels in milk and with regard to the question of the harmfulness of the same for the health of the population, insisted that experts who are competent for this issue be made aware of this problem, this is not taken seriously enough. Our citizens and our public were burdened with various information and various interpretations of the problem, many of which, no doubt, were politically motivated. All of this resulted in the creation of a public atmosphere of anxiety, confusion, fear, and panic. That is why I find it extremely important and significant that you are in the National Assembly today and that you have shown your willingness to provide us with the right information to the MPs and our citizens and to show your view of the health aspect of this problem. Starting from the above, and considering that the ministry you are taking care of and the health prevention of our citizens, I want to ask you the following question, you have already partly responded to it, but for the public of our citizens, I would ask you to explain to us once again - how harmful is the presence of aflatoxins in milk, and what may be the consequences of its presence at increased concentrations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13903	Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13904	I agree that there have been a lot of misunderstandings and that, when the profession is not heard, then there are interpretations of every man when it comes to health and how diverse and, unfortunately, often through baseless fears. But what is true is that in this country's health care system, we have institutions that work on educational and educational work, which is why the Ministry of Health evaluated, at the moment the story of aflatoxin began to be interpreted by those who do not have enough expertise, that institutions, and these are also public health institutes, public health institutions, 23 institutions of this type function in our system, and they actually need to inform the general population of what public health means, what can be a risk to public health, which are real problems. So, in some ways, educational activities are, especially in such circumstances, on them. What the Ministry of Health has done, with the appeal of really listening to the profession and that politicians place themselves as public health experts in the fight against fears related to the use of aflatoxin M1, is that it has also hired real managers of all these public health institutions to do their job, which was actually a real possibility that through the institutions of the system is the most competent staff in them, citizens come up with the right information. Perhaps this is an opportunity to ask the media to follow the work of these institutions that have been unfairly in the last 10 years and more neglected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13905	National MP Borislav Stefanovic has a word. Excuse me, will you, are you right? I'm sorry, my colleague checked in late, so that's why I gave you my word. Snow White Bogosavljević Boskovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13906	I'd like to thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. At the same time, I'd like to ask you another additional question. You have already responded to it in part, but yet for the sake of our citizens and our public, I would ask you to explain it once again – are there any and are you aware of the results of the research on which milk use period with aflatoxin levels of up to 0.05 and the one with a level of up to 0.5 micrograms per kilogram can be considered harmful to human health, especially children's health? What negative consequences can that have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13907	Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13908	Both 0.05 and 0.5 micrograms per kilogram of milk are absolutely safe levels, but we need to strive, in line with the principles that I was just talking about, which is the lower level, precisely because of everything we've been talking about, that the concentrations in dairy products are increasing, that there are individual tendencies towards certain diseases, and that we certainly need to know that in cumulative effects there is the possibility of both teratogenic and mutagenic and carcinogenic fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13909	National MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13910	Thank you, Mr. President. We in the DS are asking a few questions. First of all, the fact is that in the Ministry of Agriculture for months, Ministers, you ignored experts working in your ministry and you were completely not interested in this problem. In September, you knew that 37% of corn was infected with aflatoxin. Why didn't you immediately react and take appropriate measures? Why didn't you react to the rule in that case? Why did you let small producers of corn and milk get hurt in the whole affair? Why and do you even have corn in the supply reserves to resuscitate this problem? The answers to questions about milk failure were given by the SNS, not by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and the Government, and they politicised the affair. My question is, why? You did not continue to buy from small producers as Croatia did, but you closed, and then destroyed hundreds of producers, transferring responsibility to small producers. You are responsible for endangering the health of the population, Minister, and above all you have impertinently threatened the health of our children, for the sake of who knows whose interests. When will you resign, Minister? Or when will the session of the "Serbian non-Serb party" take you down? Do you have any idea how much damage you've done to Serbian agriculture and the Serbian economy by your ignorance, inexperience and haughtiness? What other unprofessional person are you going to place for you, Minister Prince? You probably have that information. Why did you bring the level back to 0.05, if 0.5 is okay, how did you say? Why aren't they doing inspection services in this country? Why don't we know what's being imported from food into our country and what the public health institutes are doing to us and why they don't work? Is it true that Minister Dinkic abolished it and that we today have no control, that Serbia is like a garbage can for all kinds of garbage that our children need to eat? Those are questions for now, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13911	Thank you. Minister Knezevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13912	First of all, just a little politics. I don't know if you've been informed that the "Serbian unprofessional party" won these elections, it should be clear to you, and you will have, as a number of factions, opportunities in the next election to regain citizens' confidence and try again to manage public affairs. As you managed public affairs in the previous period, you can see it now by a completely collapsed system and by all the consequences we have to date. Your first question, ignoring experts from September of 2012, about 37% of infected corn. No, she didn't get that kind of information to me. I just told you the first time I did, so only in October and November did I get the data on that corn. Immediately thereafter formed working groups consisting of experts from the entire ministry who came up with data that the percentage of corn infected with aflatoxin was 7%. Do we have corn in our stock reserves? We've got, like, 180,000 tons, between 150,000 and 180,000 tons. It's now divided into some farmers, 300 kilos per throat. We have also formed a commission for the third time already to see how many corn have been infected, because one day there was a statement in the media from the Director of the Stock Reserve Directorate, which said that around 31% of the corn has been infected. When am I going to file a report? I also filed the report with the Prime Minister and the president of my party. What kind of sanctions they're going to bring, and whether they're going to handle any sanctions at all, or whether they're going to be on the government or on the board, that's on them. I'm fully prepared for them to assess my responsibility in this whole case. That's not at all controversial, and that's what I said on the first day, about everything that's been happening to the ministry for the past seven months. Why is the aflatoxin level back to 0.5? That's a very interesting question. It might take a little longer. I don't know if I have time, Mr. President, but I'll try to cut it short. On the one hand, we have a Regulation on the maximum amount of aflatoxin in milk of 0.5, and on the other hand we have milk producers who can't reach that standard in their full support of the state. We know that the standard of 0.05 micrograms per kilogram of aflatoxin in milk is European standard, EU standard, but the EU, together with the South African Republic, is an exception in the world. So Russia, China, and the United States, India, Latin America, three-quarters of the world drinks milk that has a standard of 0.5. So there was a dilemma about whether to blindly stick to this rule that we have with the European with 0.05 and then be prepared for the following consequences. These consequences are to endanger the existence of tens of thousands of small milk producers, cattlemen, who live on milk from their two, three cows and make social cases, so that tomorrow the state should take care of them and give them funds from budgets which, of course, we do not have chronic ones, because, among other things, you, in the previous term, have broken that register well. Furthermore, the second consequence is that we are daily destroying hundreds of thousands of gallons of milk that are considered correct in most parts of the world. Thirdly, to cause an environmental problem, because most farmers would not certainly be exposed to the cost of wearing their wrong milk, so to speak. Invalid milk to carry to another destination, but to destroy it around here, which would cause an ecological disaster. Fourthly, are we so rich that we can halve the number of masculine throats that have been halved many times during your term of office? If we created, practically, a black milk market, because if it couldn't go into official use, you know how it's already going according to our good Serbian custom, it would go black market. Are we rich enough to have foreign milk on our shelves, which is probably much more expensive and that would certainly affect our citizens' standard of living? When we looked at all this and all the economic consequences resulting from only one legal act, it became clear that the regulation should be temporarily changed. The first drought that hit Serbia, meaning in 2012, has shown that the 2011 rule is completely inapplicable and that nothing will happen if in Serbia they continue to drink milk with 0.5 milligrams of aflatoxin per kilogram, because that same standard has, as I said, three-quarters of the world. I felt that as Minister of Agriculture, I had the right and obligation to protect, first of all, our peasants and our agriculture, and I did so, putting in these extraordinary circumstances an emergency measure, which is a reduction of standards from 0.05 to 0.5, and you saw that we also consulted with all medical science experts, above all from medical school, from Batuta and VMA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13913	I'd like to ask you ministers to follow this time of five minutes in the future, and I've allowed you because it's an important topic. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13914	You'll agree that everything is significant, so I expect you to extend it to me in a minute. In any case, Ministers are very familiar to you that we export the largest quantity of milk to Montenegro, Macedonia and BiH, not America. Then why did you impose an American standard on us for milk? In America there's also GMOs, there's antibiotics in meat and milk. You want to say that next time and then justify that the most developed countries are doing it? Perhaps it is the fulfillment of President Nikolic's promise that Serbia will be a black hole in the carpet of Europe by raising aflatoxin to 0.5 which is unique in the history of this continent that any minister has done anywhere? There's no excuse for what you did, and there's no way you could cover yourself even though you said first that the whole government was behind it, and then you said that you were personally responsible. We'd like to know if you're personally responsible or the entire government. We think the entire government is responsible. If you change the rule, then you change it within your ministry. What's for sure is that three times you've formed a commission as you say, which confirms you're inoperable. You confirm that you are a Serbian unprofessional party. Yes, you won the election and many won the elections in Serbia and these things change, Minister. I ask you nicely, will we ever see you again in this congregation? Will you resign? Do you have a guilty conscience for what you've done? Will you be replaced by the new Central Homeland Authority? That's what I want you to answer, because the public knows what you've done. You say you weren't informed about the corn in September. We know, Minister, that you and I both had several co-workers in the ministry and that people kept telling you that, and you kept ignoring it. You kept ignoring it because you have a State Secretary on the hunt. Because whenever you turn left and right, you can't find an expert man in this country, in SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13915	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13916	You got bad insiders first. Since we keep records from all the colleges, I will deliver those records to you, so you will have the opportunity to make sure we didn't have any in September, not in October, not in November at all on the agenda. You said I confirmed our party's intricacies. It may be, but we're only at the beginning of the mandate and we've got a lot of work to do, we've done a lot of work, and we're not going to be left with politicians or those who don't think badly about their country and their peasant. About your expertise, there have been opportunities and there may be an opportunity to talk, but above all, your expertise has been declared by the citizens of this country. You showed us how much you knew and how much you knew. It's no big deal to be in opposition, wait for another chance, so if you finally form one party, you might have success in those elections. As for the export of our milk, of course, that all exporting milkers do these commercial jobs and they talk to their partners abroad and what contracts they reach, such contracts will be implemented. I have frequent meetings with milk producers, and you saw the other day that they also advocated milk producers to keep this standard at least for a while, until the conditions for it to change. Therefore, they will certainly be exporting further, of course, losses, but I think the greatest losses will have precisely come from politics, which started from your party. As for the lobbies who are interested in all this, the whole thing, that I've repeated it many times, I repeat it now, but it's not me or my ministry, but it's you who practically burned this affair. So, it's a GMO lobby, it's an import lobby, and above all, most importantly, it's the political lobby of a faction of the Democratic Party that wants to hold its chairs for another month, especially in Vojvodina, not at all considering the views of the people of Vojvodina, and the views of the people of Vojvodina will be very soon shown. The Vojvodina has become the last train to rush towards Europe, and in that car, you and your policy have brought us in. Vojvodina has the largest number of unemployed, Vojvodina has the largest growth, i.e. the smallest growth in gross social product. Therefore, make sure you have a lot of your problems, and think about it, and whether someone will take me away, or whether we will look no longer depends on you, because if it were up to you, I've already felt many times in my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13917	Thank you. Mr Stefanovic, you have no right, the word has the MP Veroljub Arsic. So, Mr. Stefanovic, you had the right to ask a three-minute question. After that, you had the right to place two sub-questions for up to two minutes at most. You took advantage of it. Mr. Stefanovic has already spoken twice. So, Mr. Arsic, I'll give you your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I understand my fellow MPs from the Democratic Party, they are obviously very nervous, because an affair that has been placed among Serbian citizens and which they have caused is slowly beginning to be exposed to the Serbian public. As far as the issue is concerned, I would like the minister to be able to answer the next question, since the European Union passed that famous rule on the amount of aflatoxin from 0.5 raised the standard to 0.05, as far as I know, the transitional period for the application of that one rule was two years, and in Serbia it was two days. The biggest problem with the application of the regulation, which the Democratic Party brought in 2011, was that it was inapplicable, and it is inapplicable for a number of reasons, the main reason for its non-application is the lack of a reference national laboratory that would examine the quality of milk and other provisions of life, i.e. food. Since it has been said for a long time that we have this laboratory, but it is still in the fold and has not been born for the past 12 years while the Democratic Party has cheered and dressed in Serbia. I would like the minister in charge to answer why this national reference laboratory did not start working, so that it could apply the rules of procedure that the Democratic Party, which is inapplicable, would also like to know whether there are opportunities and samples of milk from 2010, 2011, 2012, that they too be sent to an analysis in another laboratory, to determine the correctness of this milk, while the Democratic Party exercised power. I'm absolutely sure the results would be exactly the same, so for now, that would be my first round of questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13919	Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13920	Here, I can answer very briefly, as I have the information from the European Union Office, the National Reference Laboratory is not working, it started in 2003, according to their calculations, the total funds that the EU has spent so far on setting up a Directorate for the National Laboratory in Batajnica amounting to about 8m euros. I don't have the exact data as much as it was from our budget, and all I know is that in August of the month, I went through all those parts of the Ministry and found a roof that was sneezing, and I found people who weren't really ready to do a lot of work, so we're going to do some things there in a very short time. So, as I was saying, some of the funds we've determined to end it, we expect foreign donors to continue to help, and by our budgets we have a dynamic plan, so that by the end of the 1st quarter of 2014, this lab can work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13921	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13922	Mr. Minister, so we don't have a state authority investigating quality control of the supplies, and what we had seems to be untraceable, so now, as I understand it, they're doing private labs. My next question is, does anyone control those private labs? Whether laboratories that repeatedly have significant deviations from real results, since it is a public secret that these private laboratories are under the influence of the import lobby. I'm interested in whether, during this control of milk, or sending it to other reference laboratories, you sent milk from imports, and if you didn't, why not, because I believe that milk from imports neither by quality nor by standards departs from domestic milk, except for the price and is in the interest of those who import it, just to put as much money in their own pocket as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13923	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13924	A very short answer to your questions. So there are 42 of us, there are no national laboratories, there are 42 accredited laboratories, accreditation gives them an accreditation body and it gives them work permits. As for milk from imports, we, as I said, sent 302 samples from 37 producers, and from that 48 lotes or 48 batches were put out of circulation immediately, until we waited for results from the Netherlands. The results from the Netherlands are such that one third of that milk is fully ready to be used and fully correct for use and according to European criteria, and the other two thirds are according to our new standards also for use. However, since the second regulation was in force, we will destroy those two - thirds of the milk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13925	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13926	Honorable MPs, respected ministers, ignorance is the mother of fear. It's easy to scare someone who doesn't know. He will succumb to the panic, which happened in early 2013. This has been contributed, of course, by many newspapers, which deliberately silenced the essence of this phenomenon, which is old and present in all countries where corn is grown not only, but also all cereals. It is said that there is a mushroom, a dance called "Aspergilus flavus" that creates aflatoxin in the metabolism process. This toxin cannot be destroyed, broken down at high temperatures, but it can be removed and prevented from reaching into the milk machine, udders and dairy glands of cows. One of these preparations is Sony, which is done in principle, i.e. from Zeolite, a very cheap, harmless silicate matter that doesn't cost much, and easily, if entered into the concentrate, can reduce the levels of aflatoxin and other toxins that we don't talk about, and which are also harmful to domestic animals, so they can also be harmful to humans. The Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture made a mistake in October 2012, when a claim appeared that our corn was infected with this mushroom and dance, and it is odd that unlike other dances, it is very expanding, it is affected by the very high temperatures we had in the summer of last year, it did not react in such a way that it invited experts, such as Professor Maria Škrinjar from the Faculty of Technology in Novi Sad, who knows quite enough about it, then Radmila Resanovic from the Veterinary Faculty, who would say that it could reduce the presence of aflatoxin, reduces to a fully tolerated level. This was not the case tonight, but continued to argue whether 0.5 micrograms should be retained or perhaps accept what is in the EU, 0.05. So it's one big mistake that's caused these consequences. (President: Time. I have to tell you, as a journalist, I've never written about pig flu or bird flu. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Travcevic. You're bringing the end. () Let me tell you, I did not spread in other words, but went and asked these people. The other day, when I was at Mrs. Shriner's for the show "Knowledge of Gifts," I asked - Mrs. Skrinjar, did you get a call from the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13927	I have to ask you to finish. You've been talking for half a minute. Do any of the ministers want to respond? No, I don't. We don't have a minister's answer. So next in line is the folk MP, Olga Batic. (The National MP of Zechariah Trnavcevic throws out of place. Mr. Trnavciæević, if you continue to shout out of place, I shall give you a warning. You had the right to ask a question, as did the other MPs, in time to three minutes. Please, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure together. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. (The National MP of Zechariah Trnavcevic throws out of place. Mr. Trnavciæević, I give you a warning. The word has Minister Goran Knezevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13928	Here, respecting the years of Mr Trnavčević and our long-standing friendship and, of course, your knowledge, I will tell you that we have just formed a working group of experts to monitor the situation and to propose to the ministry further measures and to use Zeolith mixed with corn. That's what our agricultural professional services do. So, we don't let farmers do it themselves, but our agricultural professional services, our veterinarians do it and then take that food to the farmer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13929	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. You're entitled to two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13930	Mr. Knezevic, the point is that this should be installed in the Animal Food Regulation, that, regardless of the situation, the incident situation, as it was in 2012, there is a zeolith in the concentrate because it is harmless to the animal and does not come into the milk or meat at all, etc. One more thing to tell you, Mr. Prince. News has arrived that from Russia in the fruits of apples and other fruits an illicit relapse of chemical preparations was found. I advise you to give the order to regularly examine these fruits, because what is healthy for a foreign customer will also be healthy for our consumer, and we will not embarrass ourselves and come into a situation to return shipments or put on such difficult complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13931	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13932	Here's just one sentence. You can never control every copy of every intention. There are plans planned, sampling plans that are adjusted year after year. 20 years ago, no aflatoxin was investigated, now it's being investigated, so it's changing. It's one living thing we have to follow. I agree with this to install some regulations and do as much control as possible. That depends, as I explained earlier, on the organization of the service and on the money and on 1,000 other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13933	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13934	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the government, as far as I know, has proposed that this session be held by the LDP. I can't see them now. I don't know if any of you here see that they're here? So much for how much they care about the topic of food safety in Serbia and citizens' health. Since it happens very often here that political parties have their own issues and certain topics as their own, then without false modesty I can say that first the topic of aflatoxin was talked about by DHSS, that in the Assembly I had asked the first question about milk and aflatoxin right in front of the DHSS. For those of you who don't know, they can look at the stenographic notes and see it through. It's at least an easy and verifiable fact. At the third extraordinary session, on the 12th day, I asked you a parliamentary question both for you and for the Minister of Health. I will remind Mr Knezevic that DHSS has submitted amendments to the draft budget law precisely with the aim of ensuring how health care, surveillance of sick animals and humans, as well as diseases transmitted through food, so that more funding is provided from the veterinary budget, because it is the veterinary service that is responsible for both the traceability of production, as well as the animal, animal transport and food products, as well as for providing guarantees for the export of milk, meat and other animal products. Of course, these amendments are not accepted, of course, that I am not angry because they are not accepted. I also submitted two amendments directly to the proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development relating to veterinary services and directly to products of animal origin, including milk. Neither have these two amendments been accepted again, and yet I am not angry that you did not accept them. The truth is, I had a critical relationship with him back then, but you can see that I don't have him today and I don't have a shred of cynicism and I'm telling you the truth. What I have endured and what I have proposed specifically concerns the veterinary service. That's what one of your State Secretarys who was present on the Committee on Agriculture was referring to. I know because I've been there. All these advices were given to me by people who have been in the wind for more than 30 years, who are the most prominent experts. It's so-called. My advice to the old men, whose suggestions I gladly accept, and who prepare me for both the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and everyone else. Of course you acted on time. True, although a little late and clumsy, at least in the media, but better ever than never. You sent samples to the right place. You didn't calculate. Also, you've replaced some of those who were supposed to be replaced, but some of them are present at your ministry like... The specific question for you is how is it that the Secretary of State on the Committee on Justice, which responded to the name Golubovic, gives completely incorrect and false information concerning veterinary cells? (President: Time. Here, I'm done. My particular question is when is it for veterinarians and what is paid from September to today?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13935	He's got a word for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13936	I don't have that kind of data. I can tell you that we are subject to measures. So we have about-class data, that we have remained in debt to something in genetics, of course the fourth quarter for milk, and that, in principle, we have reconciled with 99% all of our commitments from 2012 and all of our commitments from 2011. That's the information I have from the Ministry. Exactly what was paid, you mean by veterinary services or who? Here, I have to tell you again, for the third time, let me say I'll check it out and you'll get an answer right away very urgently. I don't really have the data here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13937	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13938	Here, I'll give you the information. They haven't been paid anything since November 2012 until today. Check the National Bank, check anywhere you can, and you'll get to the same thing. And to end, of course, what I'm saying is that you can't relax on this and keep everything on this, because after everything else and the meat analysis, the presence of nutrients and nitrates, carcinogenic substances, and make sure that there's just a product analysis like: eggs, meat, processing. If I know that, then I'm sure you're the only one who should know better than me. Of course, my additional question is, what about the head of the agricultural inspection? What have they been doing all this time and what is their responsibility precisely in an affair that is, of course, politicized? Why and is there even a vaccine against classical swine fever? Because if we happen to have a flood this year, then she's not being treated. That's what I assume you know. Of course, field veterinarians represent an elite part of this society, they did their job with honor. I expect you to give me an answer to the question previously asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13939	Thank you. Minister Knezevic, he has a word. Just sign in, please, one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13940	So, since the 11th month they haven't been paid, not since September, right? Is that what you said? We'll see about that these days. We have funds in our account, so I don't think there's gonna be any special problems. As far as the head of the agricultural inspectors are concerned. We're doing a change of systemization. We expect new personnel solutions and expect the government, perhaps at the next or there at that session, to agree, or to give consent to our systematization, and then we will be able to work on these personnel solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13941	Thank you. Mrs Batic, you no longer have the right to ask questions. The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13942	I have some questions for the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Knezevic. In view of the fact that last year's generation in our country was very unquality, drought and high temperatures have contributed to our agricultural cultures being subverted both in quantity and in quality. A variety of plant diseases were taking the bait, attacking agricultural cultures that, due to difficult conditions, the immune system was weakened. In this way, last year's entire race was of a lower quality than usual with slightly increased mycotoxin content. You, as Minister of Agriculture, must have been familiar with this situation. It was clear to experts that when cattle consume such livestock food, these toxins will pass into the meat, into the egg, into the milk, and beyond that into the human organism. As Minister of Agriculture, what preventive measures have you taken to avoid such harmful consequences? I don't mean the elegant lifting of the allowed upper limit of aflatoxin in milk from 0.05 to 0.5 micrograms per kilogram. First of all, I think of the measures they've taken, for example. in neighbouring Croatia. There the paors are divided into materials that advise them on what to do in such a situation. They organized education for the Paori. Clearly, this ungrateful situation that we have entered could have been very easily avoided with little attention and expertise. It is true that the value of the upper limit of aflatoxin of 0.05 micrograms milk in the EU was introduced in 2006 for the reason that the defence against imports of milk from third countries. There used to be a limit of 0.5 micrograms per kilogram everywhere. Clearly, none of the milk will get sick, but our agriculture is sick. Milk consumption has been reduced, milk exports have been reduced, the quality of exported corn is at stake. Losses are measured by millions of euros. Again, I don't know which way, the punishment is paid by the poor pair of Dukes. Who's to blame for that? The opposition, the public media, the press that one is waiting for sensations to make an elephant out of bugs? Or it's the government that runs this country. A government that has all the institutions in its hands? A government to manage this situation. To resume Mr. Princeevich, two specific questions. First, what have you done to avoid this situation? So, who's to blame for this situation we're in right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13943	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13944	You first said that in 2012 the stork failed in quantity and quality. Yes, and it's a clear and well-known fact for well-known reasons, a catastrophic drought that can't be remembered. There were droughts and years earlier, in certain segments, in certain areas, but this way, it never happened to affect the entire territory. The producers were able to do so in different ways. Someone with gulf systems must have gone better, and that should be our strategy in the next period, and we do that. It's as you can see, one of the points of the agricultural contract, where with the United Arab Emirates, we're going to use most of the funds to revitalise and build new bay systems and try to eliminate the consequences of these elemental disasters. Last year was an elemental accident. What did we do to prevent? When we got the first indication about what could happen, we formed working groups of experts who advised what we were supposed to do as a ministry and as a service. On the other hand, I can tell you that agricultural professional services during the autumn and during the winter had lectures with farmers, among other things one subject was the occurrence of aflatoxin. We've made contact with all the producer organizations. We have a big problem here, because we can't just as much as the unions have representativeness, we want these agricultural associations and associations to have their own representativeness so that they know who to talk to and in what sense. We talked to some people, we had these topics on the agenda, but nobody expected it to come to this. We tried to resuscitate as much as we could. First of all, these measures we talked about. It means that the state helps to provide 300 kilograms of healthy corn per throat from the stock reserves to every farmer where the agricultural household is closed. To provide him with a certain amount of Zeolite that our veterinarians say is the best means and that's what we managed to do in the previous period. We hope that this year, as far as agriculture is concerned, it will be much more successful and better, and we hope, by system measures, first of all, that the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development will allow our farmers to make a step much bigger in the coming period than before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13945	The word is Mr. Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13946	Mr. Minister, I asked you a question - what preventive measures have you taken to avoid this situation? You responded partly to that, and you explained what you did after the scandal had already broke out. I'd like to ask you, the agricultural professional services and those farm counselors who were not sure how many, I think 450 of them that you've disbanded, their work, that they've remained in working relationships and that they've worked further with the congregation, with the landowners, I think they could greatly contribute to such a situation. You didn't answer my question - who's to blame for this situation we've come to?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13947	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13948	I can't tell you who's to blame. There's probably a lot of segments that aren't good. We've heard today when asking questions from the system about how it's being set up to the service organisation, to the fact that we don't have a national reference laboratory and a lot of other things that have been done so far. First of all, this system must be complemented and must be made to be much more effective than it is now. As for advisers, assistants, I had an exchange of views with Mr. Petrovic earlier. We still disagree on that, so the way they're hired, the number, let's say maybe for one simple reason, because the money in the budget wasn't for that. This year we've provided one amount of money in the budget and we're going to run a similar program where we're going to hire agronomists, people from the profession that will work on the project not only aflatoxins, but also what's more important, the strategic one, which I said a little while ago, and these are bay systems, because I don't think there's any luck without it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13949	Thank you. Mr. Chizik, you no longer have the right to ask questions. The word is made by MP Radoslav Komlenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13950	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, before I start with my question, my question is a little specific, and I don't see that health minister. I would say that our colleague, a National MP from Unity Serbia, five months ago, that was a bit of a strange question, asked the concentration of aflatoxins in corn, and she did mention that when eating animal food, especially cows, it could reflect on milk, so this time I would apologize to Miss Olga Batic. My parliamentary question concerns a proposal to complete the construction of the Tesla accelerator installation, which I think is very important for Serbian citizens, as regards health. What prompted me to ask a question like this is a letter from the Institute of "Vinca" which addressed the Committee on Education, Science, Technology Development, the Information Society and the Committee on Health and Family of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the year 6,2.2013, asking that it discuss the problem of establishing industrial production, the radiopharmaceutical system for PET cameras at the Institute and their regularity of use, the medical installations of the Republic of Serbia. Two PET cameras have been installed in Serbia so far at the Institute for Oncology of Vojvodina, Sremsko Kamenica and the Clinical Centre of Belgrade. In Serbia, however, there is still no production of the dealings with PET cameras. That's why they collect rust and only use it when the radiopharmaceutical is obtained from abroad, the import price is 600 euros per patient. This price is significantly higher than the price at which it would be produced at the Vinca Institute, which would amount to 250 euros per patient. Construction of AIT began in November on the basis of a decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was made on 9 August 1989, on 1.11.2007. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to suspend the financing and construction of AIT from Serbia's budget and to continue on the basis of Russia's clinical debt to Serbia. From all this, it is clear that it is necessary to build a centre for industrial production of radiopharmaceuticals in Serbia as soon as possible, especially because it is necessary to install five more cameras in Serbia to meet the appropriate European standard. A successful completion of this complex job would allow for a significant increase in the number of accurate diagnosis of the disease, particularly malignant. This would significantly increase both the number of cured patients and the effectiveness of health services in Serbia. On March 23rd 2011, during his visit to Serbia, Mr. Vladimir Putin, the then Prime Minister of Russia said the following - we believe that one of the most important directions of action appears to be co-operation in the sphere of high-tech areas, and I say today, as far as atomic energy is concerned, that we are ready to deliver equipment, build a centre for the production of radioactive isotopes for medical purposes... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Let's train Serbian specialists in the area. I'm just gonna ask a question. The question concerns all three ministries. I will just say that the 11th meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee on Trade and Economic and Technical Cooperation of Serbia and Russia was held in Moscow on 15.11.2012. The issue concerns the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance and Industry, which reads – as far as it came into the realization of these requirements, in terms of the huge benefit that Serbian citizens would have in treating the most serious diseases, but also in the further development of science and technology of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13951	Thank you. This is a session with a topical theme. We are talking about parliamentary issues with the current topic and food security is on the agenda. So these questions you've asked, we don't have government representatives here who could answer those questions. The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13952	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen ministers, here, have three minutes available for such an important topic as the security of food used by Serbian citizens, otherwise taxpayers, so all those who finance all these institutes and institutions that are absolutely obliged to care for our safety is just as much to speak without actually saying anything. Listening to today's debate, I'm really in a big dilemma. I would also ask the minister to tell me if aflatoxin actually has a positive fact on the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because listening to both MPs and listening to and explaining and answering, I am really asking the question – is it, in fact, at the time when the state of Serbia is able to provide aflatoxin at a level of 0.05%, in fact, we should ask that it return to 0.5%, because it is exactly the same and the exact same? All the explanations go that way today. However, with little time and wanting to take advantage of it at the right time, I would ask the Minister one question, which concerns an interview or a statement that Dr Zoran Milosevic from the Institute of Public Health in Nis today, which said that he has notified the competent ministry about this, which is very clear that in the last six months the food we import into Serbia has entered without any control. The phytosanitary inspection until half a year ago had to check the correctness of food products in every boot crossing our border. Since half a year ago, however, inspectors have the obligation to run these checks only once every six months. This means that it is enough to check only one clip, and that the entire contingents of a product after that are imported without any verification. I don't think Dr Zoran Milosevic should add anything to this statement. I'd really like the minister to answer this question for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13953	Minister, do you want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13954	I want to answer. You've asked this question a little cynically whether aflatoxin is positive now and whether we're going to return this. I said the clear dilemma we had at the Ministry and that I had as a minister. So on the one hand, we have a rule that's practically unusable. On the other hand, we have the destruction of agriculture. So total destruction of agriculture, especially small farmers, cattlemen who have no Sundays, no holidays, no vacations, you know that very well, who have two, three, five, seven cows and who live on it. We also have a formality where, in principle, after consulting health professionals there are some, probably, significant differences, although we have now heard that there is no difference in the health of the population. So I didn't have that dilemma for a moment. I suggested, and for the second time, it was not brought by the Government's Ministry of Agriculture that rules out. We've brought a rulebook by which the standard for aflatoxin in milk has been practically reduced to 0.5 micrograms per kilogram. As for the statement, it seems to me that you told Zoran Milosevic, I would not comment. I wouldn't comment. I think it's inconclusive of me to comment on newspaper statements, because in my first and second sentence, I said that most of the media contributed to this affair and to do so much damage to the state. So it's not true not to take samples, and for the rest of it, I don't want to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13955	Thank you. Mrs. Savic, come in. Just sign in one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13956	Since we've been talking about milk for almost twenty or thirty days. My question is, what about meat? So, those cows whose milk we use and where aflatoxin is, it means, not me but the citizens of Serbia are interested -- what about the meat we consume, what about cheese, cocoa, eggs, corn flour? What I'm also interested in and what I've heard about this affair with aflatoxin in milk for the first time, what is the amount of aflatoxin in peanuts, pistachios, Indian nuts, in all these products? Because again, I have to go to the media, I don't have any other information, aflatoxin levels, according to media writing, in these products it's ten times the level of aflatoxin in milk. What I would ask as a question – is there any way to control the wardrobe that is being sold? It's a wardrobe imported from China, because I also got the information that there's a lot of problems, starting with raw materials, colors, paint used in the wardrobe that we import. What about toys that are also bought in Chinese shops and Chinese markets? Are these products under control and do they control these products anyway, we take care of the youngest?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13957	Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13958	As far as this last question of toys and suits is concerned, I'm not exactly here on my field. As far as I know, it's a market inspection, they're in charge of it. As for aflatoskin in meat, he can't be. Other foods don't work, because the prerequisite to find themselves in foods is a much higher level of aflatoxin in milk. I think a colleague of Slavica just spoke a lot more about it than I do now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13959	National MP Dragana Djukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13960	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two questions today. One question is actually addressed to the minister of trade, Mr. Ljajic, but since he's not here, I hope I get an answer, he'll say when he's in a position. The second question is about the agricultural one, i.e. it is addressed to Mr. Knezevic. So, for Minister Ljajic, the question is, since we have been in a situation lately and in recent years only when we take out some food and when that food goes somewhere, we get a signal from these countries that there is something wrong with food, or that there is aflatoxin, or some other pesticides, etc., so I'm interested – how much and to what extent is it controlled that we export and whether exporting to us remains like food that is still safe, or food that we continue to eat? The second question is for you, Mr. Knezevic - who can guarantee us at all that, someone mentioned karenca today, can someone actually guarantee us that the food we buy at the market today is not toxic, since we do not know how much control you have over the producers who go out to the market tomorrow, spray and go out to the market tomorrow and sell products? How much is it controlled? Will more attention be paid to how much you are able, or how many countries are able, in view of the health of all of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13961	The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13962	It's a job of market and sanitary inspection. I think they do it on a regular basis and they're probably sampling it. If something showed up, they'd alarm. As far as the first question is concerned, how much and to what extent are export products controlled, they come back to us with something? You know, we had almost a corn problem. A news report has surfaced that thousands of tonnes of contaminated food have arrived in Lower Saxony from Serbia, corn. On the other hand, what we received from our administration is the Serbian customs data that no gram of corn has left Serbia in Germany throughout 2012 until 1 March 2013. I'd like to put that aside. Then we got into these regulations about how it goes with the exports of mercantile corn and how it's going, probably, with all the other products. They're totally commercial relations without the state's participation. So, the responsibility for the goods to the border or to hand over to the buyer has an exporter, and later there is the importer who has the opportunity to rent a control house and then control the goods. If she's correct to receive her, if she's not fit to bring her back.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13963	The word is Mrs. Djukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13964	I didn't ask for a word. I thank the Minister. I must have stayed in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13965	Mrs. Rose Igic, she's not here. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13966	Dear President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask the question of the health minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, but she is not there. I will ask Minister Knezevic a question, with some facts and some opinions we have as an SPS. We believe that the issue of environmental protection is a global issue that more and more must occupy the attention of the world's public, of course, and ours. In the name of what are the conditions and the quality of life today, but certainly from what is tomorrow, because we leave that environment to our children on a global scale. In a narrow sense, it is also a matter of protection and the quality of life’s provisions, which is the current issue with us and what is certainly a much bigger problem than we are talking about. That's for sure. We think that perhaps more coordination and accountability between different ministries, state bodies, professional institutions should be established in the control of what is the quality and regularity of life supplies and should be established, and that, of course, it should be harmonised, not on the basis of volunteer principles and settings, but on the basis of legislation, based on the laws and regulations which undertake. We believe that the Ministry of Health should have wider and greater competences in the control of the regularity of life supplies, taking into account the overall resources and professional potentials that this resolution and activity has, as well as that certain competences that are now in place within certain ministries should be reconsidered. It is certainly important to connect more with each other in order to achieve success and adequate control, as it would be necessary to act preventively, rather than to deal with the treatment and resolution of the consequences of these problems that we have. (President: Time. Just for a little while. We were told here that we had a reference laboratory that we received funds for back in 2003. My question, Mr. Prime Minister, is – why are these funds not being brought in for the purpose and who is responsible for it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13967	The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13968	It's not my place to say, since I don't know, of course, but all I know is that huge funds have been spent or gone. We've officially given to the competent authorities certain questions, so someone's gonna be dealing with it these days and these months, and then we'll see where it is. We have different information, but I don't want to talk about what she said - she said, because I think it would be too unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13969	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13970	Of course you should see that, because from 2003 to today, it means ten years, we have read that 12m euros were intended for this reference laboratory somewhere. I don't know if it's the right information, you said eight, but anyway. It is likely that the Republic of Serbia has invested part of it and should be responsible for what is happening today to those who have not done what should have been done when it comes to this laboratory. I would like to make another finding, that the 0,05 limit, as a European standard, is too ambitious for our opportunities and is actually talking about how we very superficially adopt laws, that we adopt regulations, that we set standards in order to imitate them with European laws and norms, and that's what we think we've done. There is much to be done, compared with the adoption of laws and regulations, and above all, on the basis of the plan for it to be implemented and on the basis of changes in consciousness. Therefore, it is in vain to speak, we look at the problem only formally and superficially. We have to look at it differently, and we have to do it differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13971	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13972	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, colleagues, chairman, ministers. So far, we've heard a lot of insinuations about politics and the transfer of guilt from the government and the Ministry of Agriculture to the DS. I'm really sorry that you're trying your intricacies and lack of qualifications to put on the former government. I'm sorry we have to talk about the quality of food in this house at all, because we didn't have to come to this situation that you and this government didn't choose to cover up the problem, to put people's health at risk and to gamble on our country's economy. You've done a bad thing. You failed the most important exam. You failed a human health exam, and you failed a test of our country's economy, which you endangered by your inaction and untimely reaction, by bringing down the price of our corn and by bringing down the credibility of our milk on the market in the region. To bring the subject back to everyday life, if this isn't enough for you every day. Let's try to calm the parents who are worried because they don't know what kind of milk their children drink. Answer why you didn't stop the aflatoxin level from growing in milk in time. If that's what's happened before, why haven't you dealt with the situation this fall, if you've already, as you've admitted, been familiar with her? We ask that the Minister of Agriculture and this government bear responsibility for the moves they have made, for at least confusing the people, for misinforming them and for covering up information related to the level of aflatoxin in corn and milk over the past weeks and months. We are also seeking the responsibility of the government and the Minister of Agriculture for the moves they have not made and for what you have not done. Why haven't you reacted in the autumn and why haven't you taken adequate measures to treat and lower the level of this carcinogenic matter 37% of the maize infected with aflatoxin, or fungi? Minister, you knew about this problem last fall, and why didn't you solve it then? Although, Minister, your attention has been distracted, even though there has been information on this subject in public at the time, why haven't you treated corn with zeolite in the autumn? Let me remind you, it's a matter of life, what we're feeding our children, and that parents need to worry about one more thing that should actually be regulated by the state and controlled by the state. Don't answer this question with Eurofanatism in making regulations, sausages with standards we can't meet. Don't answer this question by attacking the DS, because you're wrong. The arguments you have given in the answers so far are at least unserious and unskilled and unprofessional. You've been acting confusingly and your parents are very concerned about it, they don't know what to do, whether kids drink milk or not, and they have conflicting information from you. No one is talking, for example, about the cumulative effect of milk consumed by our children and, after all, by ourselves. To repeat the question, why didn't you react in a timely manner in October, or November, when you admitted that you were aware of this situation at the time and the consequences this situation could have on our lives and on the lives of our children?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13973	The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13974	I could repeat most of the things that I said earlier, since you've repeated most of the questions that have already been asked, which I answered, so I'm going to brief you on. As far as responsibility is concerned, yes, I am prepared and I told you that I have offered an assessment of my responsibilities both to the prime minister and to the president of my party, who has delegated me to this post. It's up to them to decide and I'll take any decision like that. I argue responsibly that, as far as laws, regulations and regulations are concerned, no one in the ministry has made a single mistake, that all procedures have been respected and that everything is in line with the rules and the programme as it was drawn in the ministry even before. Cover-up. I'd love to, if you have time and if that's what you're interested in, to deliver the pre-slippings and to deliver a statement from the Ministry of Agriculture. Literally after each event or after each segment in events in this entire affair, the Ministry of Agriculture was advertised. Now there's that question from the beginning – how did the media carry it? How did the public accept that? In what way did they behave, and perhaps there should be a question of responsibility, precisely the DS officials, who instead of trying to solve the problem together with the ministry, fanned the problem and confused the people? As for non-doing, there may have been some things, that something didn't happen in the heat, but I'm still slowing down your data, which you have, about 37% of the infected corn. I don't know where you got that. I'd like you to deliver if you have. We have the data, which I said, from a lab in November, which was not accredited at all for aflatoxin, which said 70% of the corn was infected and did not say that officially by talking to the ministry, or to some official organ, but said it through the media in interviews with some papers. We reacted to confusion. We checked the way we reacted in the previous period. I said we checked it out with the environmental colleagues. We reacted exactly the same way they did, and it's the only possible way to contain everything that's been going on. A cumulative fact about children and drinking milk, I think that on two occasions my colleague Slavica answered that question and I would not accept myself as such a responsibility to talk about it. I've got something here from the EU office, so I might be able to read you something, but if I do find the exact sentences that say, as far as the battery is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13975	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13976	Thank you for the answers, if those were the answers to the questions I asked. You just mentioned, or repeated what you've said so far, and you defend yourself with statements, but I have to tell you that the statements in everyday life mean nothing to citizens, especially if they treat information in a wide variety of ways, that is to say, each time they give different information. So, the statements you made as the Ministry of Agriculture and the minister only contributes to the confusion and to an atmosphere of mistrust, which you created in public on this matter. You said we should solve this issue together. Unfortunately, this session came 10 or 14 days after the requested date. That's one thing. The second thing, as far as I know, the circuit secretary sent you a memo, information he had and didn't react before he waited for the answer from you, who didn't get it. So much for solving problems together. Let me remind you, you were not responding at the time the circuit secretary sent you the information he had. As for the percentage of infected corn or containing aflatoxin, Minister Ljajic mentioned the percentage of corn with aflatoxin that currently exists in the stock reserves. Therefore, please check with him the correctness of your information. As for the cumulative fact, I'll look at the notes of this session. I don't think Minister Djukic Dejanovic talked about it. I must remind you that the level of aflatoxin in some countries for children in milk is 0.025%. So it's half as much as it is recommended for adults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13977	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13978	Just a little bit further to fill this out around the regional agriculture secretary. There is also a public concern that the Ministry of Agriculture ignored the Agriculture Secretariat's warning for agriculture and the Secretary for Agriculture, i.e. that we did nothing, until the provincial secretary presented the results of his research to the public. This is complete, complete, total untrue. I have to say 10 times. If you want chronologically, Mr Jesic sent a fax to the Ministry of Agriculture on February 18th, signed on his behalf, telling us that he did a analysis of 35 milk samples and that most samples show an illicit amount of aflatoxin. We're currently responding to his request and asking him to send us the results. He sent us 35 PDF files of reports from one of the labs that showed several things. First, the study is unrepresentable for making general conclusions on the state of milk in Serbia and that the results are at the border. I was just telling you that in the world's best lab tolerance is 30%, and with us there's a lot more. There was tolerance here from maybe 6%, 7%, even 10%. Furthermore, milk samples took an unprofessional and unauthorized face for the job. When I say that, it may seem this little naive, but there are, of course, special procedures, there are specially trained people and there are special equipment in which samples are taken. Thirdly, short-term milk has been sampled, so by the time the results arrive, it cannot be checked whether it is true or not. Fourthly, what I just said, in certain fields in the obtained PDF files, software, most likely photoshop, has been changed, which leads to doubts about the complete authenticity of this material. However, nothing was disputed, it was not disputed to sit down and talk about it. It's distracting, it's happening on February 18th. The next day, February 19th, we've got 320 samples coming in, and we know that. So we're waiting for tomorrow's results. For tomorrow we have already scheduled a meeting with milk producers, with milk processors, and we have planned a meeting with the province administration to finish the job in the best possible way. However, on the same day, on the 18th, when these results are sent, results come out on a Twitter account with words – toxic, health - dangerous, a man who drinks it can fall dead on the spot. Therefore, the next day, too, daily newspapers are all publishing these results. If you want to be fair, they couldn't get it in the morning, so in the morning to announce it, but it must have been published the day before. If they wanted co-operation, they would've gotten that co-operation, as they had, I mentioned it earlier, a very successful co-operation when it comes to drying, when it comes to irrigation. We've always sat down with all the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, discussed problems and tried to solve them together.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13979	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13980	Mr. President, first of all, I am expressing great dissatisfaction with the fact that you were not in the O.R., you did not chair, your colleague, the deputy, allowed the president of the DS SNS Group to translate the acronym from "Serbian unprofessional party". I understand this kind of association, which in the absence of a better argument exists, but the association system can also be reached by a "diletarian party", "delegated party", "destructive party". I've got a whole series of associations for DS, but I wouldn't do it that way... It's sad. Anyway, I'd like to hear that better argument than that. As for Mr. Knezevic, who is present here, I am a little dissatisfied and that kind of apologetic performance, where only something is explained to those who are the provincial secretary, whom no one mentions here, that is Mr. Jesic, a senior official of the province's DS, who was still in session and the mandate of the previous government against him, which you, when I say, I think of the DS, who was then the backbone of the government, set up and left as a high-ranking official who was alarming the public. How did he alert the public? I ask the question to Mr. Knezevic and the entire government – how will those who are the most brutal, since it has been proven and verified that there is no direct impact on health or consumers, or citizens who have been milk consumers, which was an incident with this aflatoxin, because of the drought and everything else, it is clear, alarmed the public and the most vulnerable part of our citizenship, and these are young children and these are older people, who, due to the long-standing rule of DS, remain to drink a liter of milk, if they can also drink one kilo of bread? It is a question that, as demagogue as it sounds, is a question that is more important to me than farmers and agriculture in Serbia, although it is extremely important. I'm interested in who's going to be responsible for the alarm and panic in public? You know, I'm a vegetarian, my diet is based on dairy products. I don't eat meat, so I eat dairy and I didn't have that dilemma myself. Maybe I'm more directed than others or I'm better at accessing information than other citizens, but mothers who have been waiting for children for years maybe, so they asked themselves if they were going to give milk to the baby they barely brought to the world. These aren't irrelevant things. I'm interested in who's gonna be responsible for the public alert. I can ask a whole series of questions here, very important, very important, but since time is limited, please tell me -- what is going on with that and whether, in any way, this government is trying to protect, first of all, Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13981	Minister Knezevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13982	Of course, this is our primary goal and our basic idea, to protect our citizens, and this is what someone will answer for. They'll be responsible for alarming the public, responsible for the material damage he's done to this country, and they'll be responsible for a lot more. But it is neither at the Ministry of Agriculture nor at the Assembly, but there are bodies to determine that responsibility that will certainly determine it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13983	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13984	Now just a few things, which I would also ask as further questions, beyond this political dimension of this problem. So in 2009, the Food Safety Act was passed, and as far as I was informed, all the powers that were in the public health services, which were 24, of which 12 had top equipment, 12 had excellent equipment, were delegated, therefore, transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. At that time, the Ministry of Agriculture had neither technical capacity nor qualified people, to carry out in the best possible way and in best practice these jobs done by public health institutes. I'm interested - what is the situation now, in 2012, is there something done and is the Ministry trying to strengthen these capacities or is it perhaps the solution to return it to the public health institutes? So, I'm interested in it as a citizen, is there a better way or better practice to improve food safety control? I've got another minute. I'm still interested. Some National Reference Laboratory has been mentioned. Please tell me how much funds the government then received from the EU? It's been speculated in public about 15 million euros, if I'm wrong, please correct me, so I read. Is that lab started? Is it finished? If it isn't, why isn't it? Where is the money taken from EU funds for the project? Who's responsible if this isn't over? As for lobby groups, lobby groups exist, you mentioned some. It is not disputed that large companies and companies lobby, but it is the country's task and obligation to protect its economic resources, its economic potential and agricultural production, as a comparative advantage for Serbia. In this sense, therefore, you should absolutely fight against lobby groups that harm Serbia's agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13985	Minister Knezevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13986	Yeah, we'll fight. We've pointed out, we've said exactly what these groups are and we're going to fight them. As for the national reference laboratory, in 2003 the EU donated significant funds to establish a reference laboratory that has not yet been operational. This is one of the problems that the European Commission has repeated on several occasions. Specific data, by the way, are from the EU Office. About fivem euros were invested in the reconstruction and equipment of the National Reference Laboratorys Directorate in Batajnica, in the first phase of the complex. Also, from the IPA Fund in 2010 of the programme cycle, through a project to obtain laboratory equipment, vehicles to transfer laboratory materials and strengthen administrative capacities in the Directorate for National Reference Laboratorys of the Republic of Serbia. The total budget envisions another 6.5m euros. The project was to be implemented through two contracts, a EUR 1.5m-euro tweet and equipment for the purchase of equipment of fivem euros, and for the equipment for the analytical laboratory, for general laboratory equipment, then for the equipment for the phytosanitary laboratory, for the vehicles for samples, as well as for the equipment for liquid chromatography. 1.5m euros have been realised to strengthen the capacity of the Directorate and the project component is under way, as well as the procurement of a 1.6m-euro piece of equipment. The other purchases have been suspended. Therefore, the total funds the EU has spent so far on establishing a Directorate for National Laboratorys in Batajnica amounting to around 8m euros, with some of our funds suspended. We are now talking to them, trying with donors, as I said, to restore the lost trust and on the basis of this lost trust to achieve certain funds because, as you have seen, it is one of the very, very important segments in the food security system in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13987	National MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic is not there. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, is not here. The People's MP Radmil Gerov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13988	Thank you. Dear Ministers, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the LDP has asked for a special session to be held here in parliament to discuss food safety. We believe that this is a very important issue for all citizens of this country and to answer questions whether the milk is right in Serbia or not, whether or not the fish is poisoned, we cannot get from the tabloids and the media, but we should get the answers to those questions here in parliament. We felt that the topic of increased aflatoxin levels in milk could not be politicized. For this reason, we find it unacceptable and truly embarrassing to say by MP Olgica Batic that the LDP MPs were not present here today, and the session is scheduled at our request. That's what Mrs Batic said the moment I spoke to President Vesna Kovac. I feel and understand the need of some MPs to court the ruling coalition, but it does not give them the right to deceive citizens that MPs are not in the O.R. when they are. On the other hand, we felt it was necessary for the country's prime minister to be present at the session when food security is discussed, as is Minister Susana Grubjesic. It is truly unacceptable that four hours, how long has this debate been going on, we have not been given an answer to the question, either from the President of Parliament, nor from ministers who have the right to answer questions today, on which official route is Prime Minister Ivica Dacic today and where is Mrs Grubjesic, so they are not here in parliament today? It is also unacceptable, President of the Assembly, that when you gave the answer to the LSV MP, for which reason you did not invite the circuit secretary for agriculture, you would say that this request for this session was filed by the LDP, so that you could not call the circuit secretary. At the same time, you gave yourself the right, which you have according to the Rules of Procedure, to invite the other ministers in the government, who sit here for four hours, we have no right to ask them anything, nor do they have the right to answer anything. What's most important, they have nothing to do with this subject. I really don't understand what they're doing here today, except to pretend that they care about food safety too. First question I have for you, Mr. Duke. Since 2009 was passed, the Food Safety Act, tell me – is and when or not, a expert advice on food safety risk assessment has been established? How many sublegal acts have not been passed so far, related to this law? How many rules haven't been passed so far? How many rules don't meet the standards and you need to change them? Why did you not act in accordance with Article 7, which says – the precautionary principle, at the time of the milk problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13989	Let me tell you, Mrs. Gerov, you didn't fully say what I gave in response, since this is happening in Chapter 14. - the procedure of control of the work of the Government. Government ministers can attend the session. This is not a session controlled by the work of the Regional Government, but by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and by ministers who have expressed their desire to attend the session, I do not see what is bad for the National Assembly, that ministers come and say be part of the debate, or even if they follow a debate in which MPs ask questions to the members of the Government. Let me say, I'm glad that we had the opportunity to call in this assembly of parliament, at the request of one opposition parliamentary group, a session with the current topic, and most of us to accept it, and to have today, that every MP on the list will be able to ask a question. I don't think it's been a common practice in this House before, and I'm glad we're changing parliamentary practice for the better, and this Parliament is acting far more responsible than it has been in some previous councils. Minister Prince, do you want to answer something?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13990	Just one piece of information, before I answer this question very briefly. So, you're talking about 2009, the Food Safety Act that was adopted. I can only tell you that in the period from 1.5.2009 to 15.12.2009, quantities of 241 thousand were imported, i.e. 24.115 tonnes of diammonium phosphate, which has an increased level of radioactive uranium. So, one very serious piece of information that I just got from a colleague who certainly shouldn't go undetected. By the way, we have not established a technical advice for risk assessment until today. At this point, one of the secretary of state has taken the responsibility, so we expect that we have this expert advice on risk assessment at some point recently.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13991	National MP Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13992	I thank the Minister for his reply, but tell me, since you're not, do you know, at least when he'll form that expert advice? You've announced that you plan to amend the Food Safety Act when you plan to keep it on the agenda of this Parliament? The current Food Safety Act there is some principle of transparency and public notification, under which you have been obliged to clearly inform citizens when there is a suspicion about food data, i.e. the type of food, the risk it poses, etc., which I believe you did not do within the prescribed time limit and that such non-trust occurred between the resignations and the citizens, as milk is drinking. Another question I want to ask you is about the food safety monitoring program, as well as the way and procedure of official control. You were supposed to bring that program, so I'd like to ask you if you did or didn't? If it is when? What was needed to finance such a programme, in accordance with Article 69 of the Law? What measures will be taken in the event of the presence of microbiological, chemical and biological contaminants, the structure of the programme implementation bodies and other parameters of importance for the implementation of the programme? I'm fully aware when you said you didn't have enough inspectors on the ground. That's a really big problem. If the state and this ministry cannot control large producers, how can all citizens who buy goods at the market, agricultural products, be sure that these products are safe. This situation that is related to the return of apples from Russia with a large amount of pesticides, can you safely claim that the other apples we have in our country, located in shops and markets, do not have that level of pesticides dangerous to the health of citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13993	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13994	You asked for amendments to the Food Safety Act, and I think I said that several times in today's session of the Assembly that these changes are practically over, that six or seven laws and other sublegal acts are being amended in addition to these amendments to the law itself, and that they will soon be in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which means they will come for consideration in the Serbian Parliament. As far as informing the public is concerned, it is an obligation under the Food Safety Act, the Ministry's obligation. In my knowledge, we have fulfilled our legal obligation and have regularly informed the public about all this. Official control program. Yes, there is, every year it is brought, every administration, every directorate is adopted and it is adopted and under this programme official controls are carried out within the framework of food control.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13995	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13996	I thank Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, we have heard many findings today, many questions, many answers to the topic of food safety, and exactly what citizens of Serbia today expect from responsible people. But what answers Serbian citizens need. They need professional, competent and understandable answers in order to avoid any confusion and all that has puzzled them in the last few days. Serbia is a country and this is not news, which I have in front of me one period in which to solve many problems, many discrepancies, to arrange many systems and to arrange this system that we are talking about today, the food safety system. It is in this food security system that issues such as milk and meat and everything that our citizens use daily, but there are also issues that Members today asked, the issue of GMOs, the issue of pesticide protection, imports of uncontrolled or controlled pesticides. Exactly what all of us, of course competent people, the government, should put on an accent in the next period. So, with professional, competent, reasonable answers to inform Serbian citizens and to answer all these questions about how those irresponsible politicians who are trying to exploit, let me say, some problem in our society, want to obtain political problems in an easy way. I am sure and I expect from this government and all citizens of Serbia that in the coming period we will have exactly that kind of answers. My question for Mr. Knezevic is a question relating to the Food Safety Act, more specifically Article 48, which provides that food business entities have an obligation to use, in addition to being obliged to use good manufacturing and hygiene practices to apply the HCCP. So my question is, is there any information on the control of all these food business entities? The number and percentage of them in these controls are being used by the HCCP, and we all know why it matters right in the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13997	The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13998	In accordance with that Article 48. The Food Safety Act is a control, I can't tell you exactly now, I can deliver it to you, and the first part of your exposure I fully agree with. So, professional, quality and responsible people and professional and quality answers to all questions. I think that in this sense the Ministry was decided enough because we initially said that the milk in our shelves is good and healthy for use and there are no consequences for the health of our citizens. That's what most likely interests all of our citizens. What is second is that, in the case of a change of this Regulation, health care professionals are not damaged, and the aim of amending this Regulation and reducing that standard to 0.5 micrograms per kilogram is, above all, to save our agriculture, small farmers, cattlemen, those who live on it and who do bloody work and earn their money.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u13999	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14000	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected ministers, I assume you have heard that this incident, I say, is called a milk war around the milk, i.e. that the citizens experience it in part and as a conflict between the two political parties, the largest from the position and the largest in the opposition. I'd say the two biggest victims of this milk war are citizens' trust and trust is very difficult to build. On the other hand, the reputation of all agriculture in Serbia and agricultural producers, not to mention financial losses. These are the two biggest victims at the moment. By nature, I am not malicious, although I am an MP for the opposition, so I am well-intentioned and I am seeing this session today as an opportunity for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the Minister of Agriculture, to convince all of us here MPs, but to convince both the citizens of Serbia and consumers that it will make an effort to restore trust, to keep our food safe, to run out of fear of knowing what kind of poisons or not to let God poisons contain our food products and agricultural products. So, I take this session that way. Some of the questions I've prepared, you've given the answer, so I won't repeat it. We are going back to this 2009 law, the Food Safety Act, which was intended to establish this traceability system, and traceability means that you follow every stage of production, whether it's a agricultural product or any other industrial product used in nutrition. You've given a lot of reasons and I believe that's how it is, that it's a lot of problems and that this system has never even lived. Follow-up is when you've been following from phase one. If that system existed, we would immediately see in the first phase the quality of livestock food, so that problem would never develop into what it has become today. So I expect you to make an effort and establish that traceability system. How will you handle it, I don't know, you're responsible. Whether you're going to re-engage the public health institutes that have been moved out of this whole process, it's up to you. What I want to resent is the way you've been communicating with the citizens and I think you should fix it. Whether there was malice or not, I don't know, but there has to be greater availability of information for everyone. Your state-run ex, now the secretary of state talked about every week, I think he said it would be Monday, a press conference, for journalists, and for consumer associations. I expect you to improve that kind of communication and be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14001	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14002	Thank you very much. You said a lot of good things, a lot of constructive suggestions, and of course the biggest problem is this traceability that hasn't been achieved. I hope that by repairing these laws, amendments and additions, we can do something about it. The communication with the citizens seems not enough as soon as it came to all of this, so to speak, to take advantage of the mildest word, and it wasn't at a high enough level, but believe that we just entered into the milk war that was fought from all the weapons, not choosing the means and not choosing the way in which the opponent would be wounded or destroyed, so it was very difficult in such situations and conditions to be alone against the public, alone against a number of media that know who owns them and who manages them by accepting that commitment with great satisfaction that, whether Monday or Tuesday, we will agree to communicate with the citizens through a press conference, where we will call the Consumers Association, the Consumer Association and also share with them the information that we have, because we think that this is an easier way to get through most of these things that are happening. You agree with me for sure that there was a consensus, not only for the political public, but also for the professional and any other, to make it much easier and much safer and cheaper, because this is very expensive, in a much cheaper way, to get through this much earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14003	Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14004	Thanks for the answer. Since I'm a DSS MP, I understand very well what it's like when the media won't pass on what you said or when the media is being abused to black you out. I'd like to take the opportunity, given that there's a minister of culture, to ask him a question that has nothing to do with this kind of pollution that we're talking about today...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14005	Yes, but he won't be able to answer you at this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14006	I think it'll work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14007	No, it won't, because at a session dedicated to food safety, the culture minister can't answer, because answers can only be given by ministers who are designated for that alone. I'll be happy to wait for that written answer. So we're talking about food safety, and food safety is equal to health. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, the health minister cited a health definition from the UN Charter in one address. I can't quote what these are all segments that make up health and a healthy man, but it's certainly spiritual health. My question has been initiated by a large number of issues, mostly parent associations, educators, whether, and they address parliament, and parliament cannot do much there, but I am asking the Minister of Culture and Information, whether the ministry can reduce the spiritual pollution that every citizen of this country is experiencing. Unfortunately, it turns out that the moment you turn on the TV in the house, it becomes a big contaminant. From this box, there is a prosaclysm, disquieting, unculture, etc. in our homes. The reason for all the correspondence is that people in the press found out that they're getting two reality shows going again, and that's Farm and Big Brother. We've just had a little rest, and we're hoping it won't be broadcast anymore, not to mention some other shows, and we're even taking part in the big door and who's going to be involved in this reality show. Please, Minister of Culture to reduce spiritual pollution. It's a good thing the culture minister was present at this session. National MP Petar Kuntic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14009	The honourable MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers, following this hearing today, it is quite evident that the damage done by inadequate and untimely action regarding the occurrence of aflatoxin has caused damage to farmers, as today farmers cannot sell their milk to ransom cells or sell only 50% of what they produce. The damage has been done to agricultural producers, because the price of corn has dropped drastically from 29 to 30 dinars to 21 dinars, which leads them to disaster, because it was a catastrophic drought and from that little yield, it won't get any money now that they sell their products. The state is at a loss, because we won't have what little products we had on safe corn markets, we won't do anything, because it's obvious that we can't export it and of course they're consumers' problems, because they don't know what kind of milk they drink today and what's the difference between 0.5 and 0.05. The other night I was in Hungary, close to living there, and it's not my problem, and there's no problem there, because all the bad milk they took out where it's 0.5, maybe they took it out with us, and I don't know it, but in Hungary on the shelves, the euphoria doesn't exist, because it's clearly defined which milk can go to the shelves, which can't go to the shelves. But now I don't want to talk about it anymore, because it's gonna be time. I ask the question - is there a sustainable plan to get out of this crisis? So, the pain is great. You can see there's no way out, but if there is, since it's obvious that these 300 kilos of proper corn isn't enough to finish that job, because farmers at 21 dinars won't give you corn from your socks. The second question is about food safety. Full protection in Serbia is being done with very modern plant protection products. These preparations, visually speaking, are on the space shuttle level, and control of what's on that vegetable, fruit or any product is at the level of that Yuri Gagarin rocket. They're both going into space, and we're going to get our apples back and who knows what we're eating on vegetables. It is no longer necessary to say that vegetables and fruits are washed to be clean from pesticides, because these pesticides are not on the surface of vegetables and fruits, they are already inside, because they are now constantly sprayed with seistemics. So there's one huge space and I'm interested in what the government is doing about it. The third question I'm interested in is is is it really real information that I got yesterday, that because of these mistakes about aflatoxin and those heavy metals on grains exported to Macedonia, we're going to get a year-long ban on grain exports?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14010	The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14011	You said the damage was invaluable by not doing the ministry and farmers and the state and that everyone was at a loss. I'd quote a site called "Agrariania", which is arranged by a former agriculture minister, which, by the way, seems to me, I might be wrong, I apologize if I was wrong, and I'm an adviser to the regional agriculture secretary. She says three things: 1) urgently put a ban on the marketing of her milk produced in Serbia; 2) urgently introduce milk from the EU and 3) allow the import of livestock as the poorest and cheapest replacement for corn. It speaks on his site a day earlier before the circuit secretary presented his results. I think this tells you and the citizens a lot, not getting into the fact that Mr. Jesic has said one sentence that many people need to deal with, which is that he was offered money to keep this whole affair quiet and to do something about it. So, please, everything else I think is unnecessary after quoting this. Otherwise, is there a sustainable plan that works for the state? Yeah, there's a sustainable plan. We're strengthening the monitoring of livestock food, the milk itself. We tighten the level of hygiene conditions in public and other warehouses, promote mutual communication of professional inspection services, even in the region. We are working on amendments to many laws, rules, regulations, so we have a long-term strategy, and I think the long-term strategy will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14012	The word is Mr. Kuntic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14013	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I really wasn't familiar with the Agrarian website. It wasn't a question. The question was exactly what you answered. When you add up how many throats and a half of a pound of right corn, then you'll see that there's not enough corn to finish this action, but we're not bidding on it now. You did not answer me on another question, which is not related to the occurrence of aflatoxin, which is whether there is a plan to control the residuals on our fruit or vegetables that must be done because it is no longer the same fruit and vegetables as it was ten years ago, because no farmer, not even the smallest one, is working with contact pesticides anymore, but with seistimists, and it is in there and it must be respected both karenca and all other regulations. It can only be respected by control. If there's no control, what the MP was talking about on this side will happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14014	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14015	There is control of both fruits and vegetables according to the plan of the Plant Protection Authority, the programme of the reporting services. So, it's done regularly, and I don't think there should be any problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14016	The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14017	The respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, gentlemen ministers, respected citizens, the current developments regarding milk again have shown in the most obvious way that the parts of our political elite for the interests of their own state care at least declaredly only when their participation in power is over 125 MPs in parliament. By identifying the state with authority, members of the still officially the largest opposition group have contaminated public space far above all allowed political standards. In doing so, the correctness of milk is only a cause, and the interest of citizens is only a mere instrument of the already widely distributed political orchestra in an attempt to cover up the more dissonant tones produced by the new conductor, who instead of the stick, seems to be conducting a beating and creating an affair after the affair. One month they criminally report the MPs, the other slips onto a rotten banana stored in their own pantry, and the third they gnaw about milk, which they want to swim to the top of a political sauced sauce that they cooked themselves in their own kitchen. A real soap opera that keeps texting new episodes, even though viewers are getting smaller and smaller. Until yesterday, political spin masters stopped following public opinion research, and they continued to ignore data on their own devastation to a historic minimum, at the risk of falling from the current 13 to the famous 0.05 figure, which they have these days raised to the limit of political indifference. Of course, every party has the right to destroy itself until the final elimination of the political scene. It's a matter of responsibility here for a publicly spoken word. when political opponents are attacked, it is considered a legitimate political struggle in which the winner is decided solely by citizens, but when these same citizens are harassed by unverified, incorrect or maliciously interpreted data, and in doing so, the economy itself is caused by immeasurable damage, then such actions have another name, sanctioned in institutions independent of politics. At the very least, we debated in parliament indefinitely, which is widely used as a public scene for our own political promotion. Even when masked with citizens' widest interests, including those of 22,000 who have one meal a day, among which are nearly 12,000 children. They didn't get too scared of allegedly contaminated milk because they didn't even have it on their menu. At least that's what the official data said about the Social Justice Day, marked in February, which I don't remember the opposition asking to discuss. So that someone doesn't remember who's the most responsible that Serbia is a poor country with very rich citizens, of course. The moment is for us to thank the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Knezevic, for, although surrounded by internal fire all the time, taking the utmost rational care of the welfare of all, both breeders and processors, and especially citizens. That the results of a public opinion survey were thus witnessed, that the citizens did not fall for the attempt to spread panic, which is why...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14018	I have to ask you to finish up after we enter the fourth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14019	... Which is why in organized societies is responsible, which is why we will insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14020	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14021	Only in the shortest time that I don't repeat myself. Maybe one very important piece of information for the end. First, what I should have said at the beginning, and I think I've said repeatedly through the debate, milk in the shelves of our stores is healthy and there is no danger to citizens' health. The second thing that is extremely important is that I use this opportunity to invite all farmers to sign up for this year's subsidies by 31 March. This year, the deadline has been defined by law and it will not be extended. Thank you, all of you, who have been persistent and waited for these hours. Thank you for your questions and opportunity to allow me to explain and explain to you the matters of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-14-0.u14022	Thank you, Minister. Since we are no longer registered for parliamentary matters, allow me to thank all members of the government who have been giving answers to parliamentary questions on the topic in question. We're finishing work on a day to answer parliamentary questions. Thank you for your participation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 135 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Vesna Milekic and Mladen Grujic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for an Efficient USE LAW I am putting to the vote the draft law on efficient use of energy, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, has voted 39 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 40, which was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Vojic Markovic. Given that the Government has adopted amendments to the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy on Articles 5 and 95, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I also find that they have become an integral part of the Bill's amendment of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to Articles 5 and 95. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragomir Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no and did not vote 157 of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – there was and did not vote 148 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstentions – there was and did not vote 146 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 148 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic have tabled an amendment proposing that the title and article 10a be added after article 10a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, against – no one with abstentions – there was and did not vote 146 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic have tabled an amendment proposing that the title and Article 15a be added after article 15. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic together submitted the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstentions – did and did not vote 157 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not and did not vote 179 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 181 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one with abstentions – did and did not vote 151 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 32nd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one with abstentions – did and did not vote 151 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did and did not vote 180 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one with abstention has voted for – 11 against – 178 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th amendment was filed by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. Just please, since there is some mistake in the system, let us repeat this vote once again on Article 50 of the amendment with correct submission by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs, Teodora Vlahovic, and Professor Dr Janko Veseinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, against – no one, with abstention – voted 151 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th Amendment with corrections was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 181 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 182 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – 11, no, 182 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision under the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal in general. I put the draft law on effective use of energy in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – two abstentions – no, 57 of the 193 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on effective use of energy. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Accords between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the supply of natural gas from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia. Before we move to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on natural gas deliveries from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on natural gas deliveries from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 51 abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the MPs Jovana Joksimović and Ljuban Panic, in writing, withdrew the amendments that were submitted together on 7 March 2013 at 10:30 p.m., to Articles 1, 2, 4, 9, 10, 11, 11 and the amendment to which Article 13a was added after Article 13a, as well as to Members Nenad Constantinović, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together on 7 March 2013 at 10:30 p.m., to Articles 1, 2, 4, 7, 9, 10. and the amendment to which Article 13a was added after Article 13a, and that MP Milisav Petronijevic had writtenly withdrawn the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: to Article 1 which, in the same text, the MPs Dejan Rajčić and Aleksandar Antić, to Article 1 submitted by MPs Zoran Babić, to Article 4 who, in the same text, submitted the MPs Dejan Rajdarić, with correction, and Aleksandar Antic, to Article 5, who together submitted the MPs Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojrević and Kenan Hajdarevic, to Article 9 submitted by MPs Miodrag Nikolic to the 9th Members who jointly submitted the MPs Joksimović, Radmila Gerov, Ljuban Panić, to the 10th member of the same text, who, in the same text, submitted the peoples of Dejan Rajčić, Algica Antiić, Olgica Batić and together with members of Biljan Hasaožimović, the same member of the people of the 11thar, Mr. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 191 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, against – no one with abstention – has voted 148 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – 17 abstentions – no, 162 of the 193 MPs present were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Gordic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – two abstentions – there is no vote of 152 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovana Joksimovic and Ljuban Panic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, against – two abstentions – there are no, 146 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 48, v – one, abstention – one, 143 of the 193 MPs present in total did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 43, there are no, abstentions – no, 150 of the 193 MPs present were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 50, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 166 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 184 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 192 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 46, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MPs Radojko Obradovic and Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 168 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 169 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 154 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A new Article 3a of the amendment was added to Article 3 and added to it by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 188 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Radojko Obradović, Jovan Palalic, with a correction, and together Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstention – voted 151 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 1,160 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – two abstentions – there is no vote of 164 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovana Joksimovic and Ljuban Panic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 155, out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 159 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 183, out of the 188 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 155, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 163, out of the 187 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 154, out of the 187 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A new Article 4a of the amendment was added to Article 4 and added to Article 4a by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 185, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm asking my colleagues to bring the atmosphere into the O.R. because the noise is too big to work normally. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 173, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – one, did not vote 184, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 158, of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 152, of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 170 did not vote, of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 162 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs: Vladimir Gordić, Radojko Obradovic, joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahović and together Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 47, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 139, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 185, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 160, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Radojko Obradovic, together Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahović and together Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 48, no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 151 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment, MP Suzanne Spasojevic submitted me to the vote of the amendments. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 182 of the 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 7 and to which a new Article 7a is added after Article 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 188 of the 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 170 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 157 of the 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – 11 abstentions – there is no, 147 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 52, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 136 of the 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – two abstentions – there are no, 148 of the 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 164 out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – three abstentions – no, 150 of the 185 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 54, no one, with abstentions, voted 130 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, against – one abstention – there is no, 138 of the 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic, Aleksandar Senic, Jovana Joksimovic and Ljuban Panic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, v – one, abstention – one, 137 of the 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 155 out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 55 of the 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 43, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which Article 11a is added after Article 11. The People's MP, Miodrag Nikolic, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – one, 179 of the 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 178, out of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MPs Radojko Obradovic and Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 156, of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 149, out of 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 154, out of the 182 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 46, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 134, of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, against – one abstention – there is no, 142 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 173, out of the 184 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Rajcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178, of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 13a, was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – one, with abstention – there is no, there is no 147 vote of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic together submitted an amendment adding Article 13a after article 13. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 154, out of 183 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Jovana Joksimovic and Ljuban Panic together submitted an amendment adding Article 13a after Article 13. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 151 out of a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 155, out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move on to a decision by the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. I remind you he's a member of the 14th. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – 31 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 28, of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – 49, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – nine, of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law on special conditions for enrolment of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. As we now move to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts (points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, by the majority of votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of State Export Credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia I am putting the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the State Export Credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – six abstentions – there is no vote, not 31, out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We are moving to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE SERVANT OF THE KUVITIAN FUND FOR ARAPISH ECONY (PROGRAMME OF THE BELEGRAD CENTER – FAZA I) I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitan Fund for Arab Economic Development (Project of the Belgrade Centre – Phase I Railway Station) in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 22, out of the 181 MP present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE ASSOCIATION AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED ARAP EMIRATES I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – four, abstention – one, did not vote seven, of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Saradic cooperation in the field of defence, in general, I am putting the motion for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on co-operation in the field of defence. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE UNITED ARAP EMIRATES ON COMMUNITY SUPPORT AND CONSERVATION OF IMPLEMENT I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates on mutual incentive and investment protection, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – four abstentions – 17 of the 180 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, also performs other electoral powers. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 14 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF CONSTRUCTIONAL PARTIES OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by Vice-President of the Vesna Kovac National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 13 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Community of the Republic of Serbia as the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the United Regions of Serbia. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chair of the People's Parliament, if the infringement is deemed to have been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a request, be made known on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Borisav Kovacevic, at a session on 13 March 2013, at 16.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 155 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Aleksandar Radojevic, at a session on 14 March 2013, at 11:15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 57, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 86 of the total of 144 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nada Kolundji, at a session on 14 March 2013, at 11.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – 48, the abstentions – there is no vote, 81 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
