ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-12-0.u13361	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I called this special session to be addressed by the National Assembly by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, his Excellency, Mr Jean-Claude Minjon. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the Members of the People, also: Ms. Ante Rotemund, Head of Mission of the Council of Europe in Belgrade, Mr. Peter Sic, Chief of Staff and Mr. Xavier Pinon, Special Advisor to the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I ask his Excellency, Mr Jean-Claude Minnon, president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-12-0.u13362	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, and, of course, dear colleagues, at first I would like to tell you that I am extremely touched, every MP who is in a position to address a congregation meeting, it is not something that is just like that, to address the Assembly, especially one unknown assembly, a congregation like yours where all representatives of the people are now gathered together, elected in Serbia, and it is a significant event for me and I thank you for giving me this opportunity to take my word here and to address you. I would also like to say that, not only am I president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I am an MP of the French National Assembly. One Frenchman means an extraordinary opportunity to address the Serbian Parliament, I speak in one emotional state, and please be understanding, because I am excited to give this speech in the Serbian Parliament. It's extremely important, as I said, for me to address you in this country, your country that I feel close to because of its history, because of our history, and it's close to me because of the present. Your present is one European present despite the difficulties you have faced throughout history, especially in recent years. Balkan conflicts are something we all remember, you remember them, but we remember them, too, and remind us of the darkest sides of European history. That could be heard many times, and that's why I'd rather say a few words about the future than the past. So, on the future of one, a community of European states that shares the same values and whose citizens live in the area of justice, justice and freedom. Your country, like your region, must at any cost become part of that community. The community was founded in 1949 when the Council of Europe was founded and the goal was to avoid the mistakes of World War II, never happening again. That goal has never been changed. Our primary priority is peace, because war is a complete undoing of all the values on which the Council of Europe is based. To achieve that goal, the Council of Europe uses what is called "soft power", soft power, mild power, to build and strengthen human rights and the rule of law in society in the Member States. Countries that follow, respect these principles, should never fight each other, nor resort to the use of force to their own citizens. I think we all agree on these principles all the time. But to translate these principles into reality, it's a long process, a process that goes on and on, it's a constant effort for all of us. Some countries have gone further this way than others, but no one, I repeat, is perfect. We all need to help each other and learn from each other. That's what the Philosophy of the Council of Europe is for me. I therefore most warmly congratulate you on the great progress you have made, taking over and carrying out the commitments that the country has made to itself when it joined the Council of Europe. He's already, like, 10 years old. I am personally proud and happy to be one of those who is in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, before that Serbian accession, worked and fought to include Serbia in the Council of Europe and to be part of this European family. You have introduced major changes in the way your democratic institutions work. The electoral system in Serbia has been changed, judicial. The decentralisation of minority rights was introduced. Many European conventions have been ratified. A few days ago I visited New York and this morning I spoke with the president of your assembly here. We discussed how important it is for the Council of Europe, our parliamentary assembly, to ratify in Serbia one of our conventions, the Istanbul Convention, which deals with a team of evils that we have in all 47 member states, which is the violence committed against women. The convention is fighting it. All countries in the Council of Europe, and much more than just countries in the Council of Europe, because women are victims everywhere in the world, not just in 47 member states of the Council of Europe. I really want Serbia to be able to ratify this Convention of Istanbul as soon as possible. Ten member states in Europe have already ratified. If Serbia is among the first to ratify the Istanbul Convention, you will send a very strong message to international public opinion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my dear colleagues, I have a great honour during this visit to meet with representatives of both the legislative and executive authorities in Serbia. They all draw their legitimacy from the May 2012 elections, which the whole world has recognised as free and fair. I think that legitimacy allows you to make this very democratic progress that I mentioned. The reform process is not simple. There's a lot to be done. However, is there any country in the world where no reforms should continue to be carried out? I was elected for the first time in the French congregation as one of the youngest MPs and in my entire career I never met a government or a minister in any government that wasn't in charge of some important reforms. The need for reforms is strong and necessary today. That's why I'm going back to what our monitoring committee is doing. Countries monitoring the Council of Europe's monitoring system meet their obligations. This morning I told your president that the word monitoring the Council of Europe, monitoring the situation in the country, should be considered. I remember when I was in my first year of office, talking to my colleagues, this monitoring for many young member states was something that sounded offensive. Our countries joined the Council of Europe a few years ago and now they're monitoring. It's not nice to say – now we're keeping an eye on you and watching what's going on over there. The point is that we provide you with our help, to share our experience with you, to be there for you so that you can meet those obligations you made when you decided of your own free will to join the Council of Europe. I spoke to the Secretary General, with the Council of Ministers, with the local government congress, with the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg for Human Rights, which is our crown jewel. We all need to consider this situation, think about it, see this new state of things that leads to the beginning, to the scene of that young political class, to adapt our dictionary and our methods to what is today's reality. You probably know a lot better than I do all the areas where in your country you have to work on reforms more and more. It's not taboo, you're the will and the urge to reform, and we're here to help you. The judicial system must become independent and efficient, to strengthen media freedom, to strengthen the fight against corruption both against all types and forms of discrimination. When we talk about empowering the judicial system, I cannot help but mention the European Court of Human Rights. He's yours and ours. It is unique because MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly have the privilege to elect judges who work at the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg for the court to work normally. In order to do so, it is necessary that the judicial system in each country is adapted to the European system of human rights, in order to get as little as possible to Strasbourg. We have a big problem at the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. Eleven of the forty-seven member states are responsible for more than 80% of the court-based performances. From eleven countries, only 80% of the performances come. Now 47 of us are in the Council of Europe, and Mr. President, you know we're working on a budget whose growth rate is zero. Our budget melts year after year, and we have to work with 47 member states like when the Council of Europe has much fewer member states. The Court of Justice's own budget for the Europe Council is greater than anything else in the Council of Europe's budget. You can imagine the difficulties we face. Since I mentioned this monitoring, I must say that our two rapporteurs of the Council of Europe have done an extraordinary job. Why did they do an extraordinary job? Because you made it possible for them to work in good conditions. It doesn't happen in all countries, I have to tell you. The two had the opportunity to present their report to the Strasbourg Assembly to welcome the extraordinary co-operation that MPs in your country and other authorities gave them so that they could do a quality and objective job. Progress on the commitments you have made by joining the Council of Europe, I can say that our little sister has grown quite a bit over the last ten years. We at the Council of Europe support the ambition of every European country that wants to join the European Union. That is why our two institutions work closely together, because both the Council of Europe and the European Union and I personally work very closely with the European Commission. It is one of the priorities of my mandate as speaker of the Parliamentary Assembly for me. I fully support your goal of getting a date for the start of accession negotiations with the European Union, if possible before the end of this Irish presidency. The Union expects further progress to be made to win that date, but the Council of Europe is ready to help with its powers and advise you to make these progress. I repeat, I am personally, twice as a French MP and as president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, extremely, and when I say I have no stronger word than to say extremely, how much I want to see you one day in our great European family. Now there are 28, soon there will be 29 of us and that 29 of us will depend on you, on your ambitions, on what you want to achieve. Know that in the European Union you have a lot of friends who think like me and who say that as I say here today, you have a place between us and we want Serbia to be able and should play that role that belongs to you in your region in the Balkans. In order for this to be so your place is between us, and for you to be among us, we have to help you. Some conditions are related to this conflict that has left consequences for both your country and your region. That's what I said today. I'm a little anxious to hear what happened yesterday in Brussels with our foreign affairs commissioner Catherine Ashton and your President, Mr Nikolic, Prime Minister Dacic and Foreign Minister. They were all at her house yesterday in Brussels. I hope that happened well in Brussels yesterday. I am personally convinced that it is only one meeting that will strengthen and improve your position. As I said, these terms are related to the conflict that marked your country, your region. But after that, you took a good path. You are looking at this tragic period objectively, which you have shown by arresting various war crimes indictees, sending them to the International Criminal Court in The Hague. Your country has ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Obsolescence of Crimes against Humanity, War Crimes, as well as Witness Protection in those processes. I call on you to have confidence in international law, even if some decisions and judgments by the court in The Hague have caused great emotions in your midst, but I think that we should all respect judicial decisions, that is the basis of the rule of law, and that is also the role of the Council of Europe, as regards the decision of the Court of Human Rights, to ensure that these decisions or judgments are respected and implemented. Speaking of Kosovo, I am aware that this is a thorny issue, which is difficult for all of you, which must be resolved in order to ensure sustainability in peace, stability in the region and that one day all countries of this region will also join the EU Council of Europe. I come to you here only two months after making our decision, the resolution on Kosovo in the Council of Europe. This resolution is our highly respected, competent colleague, Swedish MP Bjorn Von Sidov, who has taken up this important responsibility in his country, and after the decision of our Administrative Committee, we have finalised the text of that decision in Paris. Although 34 out of 47 of our member states recognise Kosovo's independence, the Council of Europe adheres to Kosovo's status neutrality policies. As we have highlighted in our Resolution, all those living in Kosovo should enjoy the benefits of the rule of law, good administration, as well as everyone else living in Europe. For this reason, in the Resolution, we called for the Council of Europe to continue to act more strongly to improve the basic principles and to enable Kosovo authorities to be directly involved in implementing the work and programme of the Council of Europe. Also, we decided that the Parliamentary Assembly would expand its dialogue with representatives of all political forces elected to the Kosovo Assembly. That is why the Administrative Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly will grant the right to Kosovo's elected representatives to participate in our committees, except for the monitoring committees and the Legislative Committee, by administrative means. That's impossible for them, for representatives from Kosovo to be there. They will also be given the right to follow plenary sessions, without the right to take part, to address plenary sessions or to vote. Your delegation is here and we can talk about it further. Let me congratulate me on the work of your representatives, your new representative of the delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly, the young one, who was extremely held during these talks, when the political committee almost unanimously accepted Bjorn Von Sidov's monitoring report. She was amazing here. It was also remarkable in Strasbourg during the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly. It was also remarkable in Paris when the Administrative Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly sat down. I thank your chief of delegation, who was extremely professional during all the difficult talks we had. We appreciate the constructive approach of the Serbian government. We welcome and support your government's constructive approach to Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue, especially now regular meetings at the highest level in Brussels, as well as the one that happened last night, despite the resolution you brought here last January that Serbia does not recognise Kosovo's independence. However, I am happy about the recent statement by your State Secretary, Mrs Susane Grubjesic, or Deputy Minister for European Integration, which addressed the Committee of the European Parliament, chaired by my friend, Mr Brok. Mrs Grubjesic said there is no alternative in the Belgrade and Pristina talks. Conversation and dialogue are the basic work of everyone who is an MP, of every assembly, that is the fundamental feature of every MP. Through dialogue, we do what we call congregation diplomacy, parliamentary diplomacy, and through this we can improve problem-solving. Mrs. Suzana Grubjesic's statement is one of the most positive signs for the future. I am convinced that a dialogue conducted with good intentions can lead to solutions and the most difficult problems. It's one conversation that's happening now in 2013. This year 2013 is symbolic by many grounds for us French, and also for you, because you were involved. This year 2013 is the 50th anniversary of the Jessen Agreement. 50 years ago, this meant the reconciliation of two peoples who fought so many wars over the centuries -- Germans and French. Let me express my desire that what we did with our enemies to achieve 50-60 years ago, because our peoples fought, hated, massacred, and there was an unprecedented hatred between France and Germany. And who 50 years ago could have guessed that today the European two French-German, with discussions and discussions, would be able to be such an example of this co-operation -- all those who suspected such opportunities. The calendar's like that. Jubilee is – 50 years old. It happened by chance that the French, I myself, chair the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe was founded as the first European institution in 1949, so as never to experience the horrors of World War II again. Unfortunately, we haven't completely succeeded. We haven't been able to avoid a number of conflicts and conflicts that have affected you. But I have hope that, let's say, this year when we mark the anniversary of the Elisha Agreement, that other countries that are members of the Council of Europe and which are currently engaged in some war conflicts with each other will solve it. Dear colleagues, if I may say so, dear friends, friendship is one important and great value that allows us to move forward. I would like to use this honor to address you here and report to you on my first year of presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly. I have been in the Parliamentary Assembly since 1993 as an MP. We are made up of representatives, MPs from the national parliaments of the member states. That's necessary. It is your obligation, as Parliament, to request a report from your MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly, your President of the Assembly and the House itself, since our Parliamentary Assembly is a body that unites representatives from 47 countries, plus more observers, or observers from two congregations voted by democratic statutes – the National Assembly of Morocco and the same representatives of the National Council of Palestine, the Palestinian Development Council. Because Palestine has won that status as a partner for democracy. So our two partners for democracy - Morocco and Palestine. I hope that other countries will become our partners for democracy. I mean Tunisia when I say it or Algeria. I'm going to Algeria in a few weeks. I've been to Tunisia before. There are other countries that want to inspire what we do in Europe. There are countries that are in the status of observers and not only in the Parliamentary Assembly but also in the Council of Europe. The United States is an observer. Japan is an observer. Canada is an observer. We are regularly visited by congregation delegations from the Canadian Parliament. Mexico is an observer. I was elected president of the Parliamentary Assembly last year and I said I had three priorities. The first is to develop relations with the European Union with friendly, trustful people, not to be sterile competition. Since we do not have the same competences, the European Commission and the European Parliament do not deal with the same areas, the second priority for me is to contribute to the solution of frozen conflicts and conflicts. Some of my colleagues laughed. Others haven't done anything for years with frozen conflicts, and they suspected I'd settle it in two years. They told me to try, hope I could find solutions, so I didn't agree to that. I thought these were important questions to deal with. As far as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is concerned, we are here not only to play some presence but to really try to do besides these protocol obligations and what is important. My intention is to talk about sensitive topics, important topics, try to contribute our Assembly to a number of solutions by respecting the spirit that existed in 1949, and the brilliant idea of establishing the Council of Europe. My second priority was to make the Parliamentary Assembly more relevant, more participatory, more reactive, more visible, to respond to a number of topics. We need to evolve every minute of every day, develop. It is also your Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and it must be more reactive, relevant and closer to reality. As far as the European Union is concerned, I have met many times with the President of the European Parliament, Mr Schultz, who was elected at the same time as I to my post. It's a great pleasure to work with him. I've seen him live twice, and we've had phone calls multiple times to discuss certain issues. I must say, our relationships are extraordinary. Of course we also meet with representatives of political clubs, with Mr Brok, and directly with parliamentarians who are interested in work. The President of the European Parliament will also have the opportunity to address hope in the next June and your representatives. I also met with Stefan Phil, who is the European Commissioner, who is directly interested and responsible for what you are interested in, as he deals with good neighbourly policy and enlargement policy. He responded positively to my call. At the previous session of the Parliamentary Assembly, he addressed our parliamentarians. We naturally asked him all the questions we wanted and he answered those questions, and the two of us agreed to meet every two months to discuss issues concerning the Parliamentary Assembly, as well as the European Parliament and the European Union. Many of the relevant countries that are also our members are members of the European Union, but they are members of the Council of Europe, including Serbia. So for all of us, the common goal is to have a single European continent in which all the values we hold, which is the rule of law, the presence of the rule of law. Of course, I have repeatedly expressed that I am not satisfied that the EU has begun to deal with human rights, and that it has not only addressed the Council of Europe to regulate these issues, which I would prefer, but I have realized that it is a reality, so I have taken concrete steps to co-operate with this EU body. In 2012, during the Political Affairs Commission, I met a special rapporteur from Greece, the foreign minister of Greece, who deals with human affairs, human rights issues. He's a great professional and I'm sure we'll cooperate well. He expressed his desire to work closely with our human rights commissioner. We also want to deal with the issues of frozen conflict. It's about Transnistria, the Republic of Moldova. I went there twice. I had the opportunity to meet with all the political authorities, which I was to meet with the Moldovan prime minister, the President of the Parliament of Moldova, a certain number of ministers, and we were very pleased to note that Moldova, after all, managed to elect its president of the Republic. Also, I had a chance to address the Moldovan parliament. It was a big step for me, how can I say, big deal. I met with Mr. Chevsuk, who was elected president of the separatist region. I expressed this at the time a number of wishes that are not easy to reach, since there is a crisis there that makes the coalition in the government down, which will lead the Moldovan people to express their will in early elections. We will continue to work in terms of a faster solution to the problem that exists in the Transnistria region. That's what I've been talking about with Ukraine, which has been the chairman of the OSCE since recently. I think our Russian friends have the key to solving this problem. In the coming weeks, I'm going to have a chance to talk about this problem of the Danube. In April, I will go to Moscow to meet Mr. Narishkin and the authorities, and we will see to it that we are dealing with this problem of the Transnistria. As for Nagorno – Karabakh, the two countries that can solve the problem are, of course, Armenia and Azerbaijan and will soon be headed by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. As for Azerbaijani, to quote them in alphabetical order, they experience a historic moment, both for themselves and for themselves, since they will chair the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee, which was founded in 1949 so that there will never be a war again. This is about Nagorno – Karabakh. I ask myself questions, and I think we should all ask ourselves a question – what will happen about it? It's a historic moment for them, too, and it would be good for us and for us to inspire what happened 50 years ago with us, how the two countries that are in conflict can chair the Committee of Ministers together. I think they should have one joint presidency programme, and their common theme is solving the problem of Nagorno – Karabakh. It's some day-to-day problem that families experience, both Armenia and Azerbaijan. I hope those two delegations will be able to meet during April to discuss the presidency, given that six months will be one country, the other, with one part chaired by Austria. I think it's very good to make our contribution to solving the Nagorno-Karabah problem at the end of May, just before I go to Yerevan where I'm going to participate in a meeting of our administrative committee, I have great hope that I will visit Baku before that, with the presence of my colleagues from Armenia, and possibly colleagues from Azerbaijan. I hope that it will be one symbolic gesture of two delegations that will only be highly respected and I hope that the governments of those countries will grant certain freedoms to their countries, because it is right on parliamentarians and on their new generations to convince their governments that the time has come to end certain problems and to start a new life. Also, I want to express again how much we hate war, how much it has been accompanied by a large number of victims, how much trouble there is, and I remind once again that the Council of Europe was founded in 1949 with a desire never to repeat the previous situation again. Also, we now live in a situation where we have an economic crisis, when we have a strengthening of violence and that we need to return to common values, not a return to nationalism, not a return to that idea, each one for ourselves. I think we need less Europe and more Europe. In France, we had an election campaign, which was very difficult. I was re-elected as an MP, but I simply took the risk of getting into some situations that weren't good. You know, when a tennis player plays a match, he has to go online sometimes, and so I came into this situation to get on the grid, to explain what Europe is, to explain a number of things to his countrymen and to say that France must continue the activities that I am now leading, to make Europe more solid, to be proud of its values, to be strong and to be open to its neighbours. That's the policy we're implementing today, the policy of the good neighborhood. That's why I was in Tunisia, Morocco, and I'm going to go to Algeria soon and talk to our friends in Morocco, and I keep talking to them, what I'm going to do with our friends in Algeria, we're going to talk about the situation in the Western Sahara. We had an emergency situation in Mali, and we recently had talks about it, and I am very pleased that France's position was supported. I'll give you just one example, in early January I had the opportunity to go to the gathering centres for illegal immigrants in Greece, and I have to say that I saw and felt an inconceivable horror there when I saw these women and those children living in terrible conditions and I just felt physically the need for a more solid Europe. The images I've seen in these centers, those faces that have escaped from a certain number of countries, and you know what these countries are, these conditions are unacceptable. I said we're going through a humanitarian disaster, and I mean it. They're underage children who are cut off from their families and have no idea what happened to their families. Women are in completely inconceivable conditions, and we have to react for that. An urgent debate with President Santini is needed, chaired by the Migration Committee, and no country can cope alone with the massive inflow of immigrants from different countries that are in crisis or war.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-12-0.u13363	I thank Mr. Jean-Claude Minjon. I conclude the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you, everyone.
