ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of a proposal from the Democratic Party parliamentary group, and in accordance with Article 209. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set Thursday 30 May 2013, starting at 10.00 a.m. as a day for discussing parliamentary issues regarding the topic. The current topic on which members of the government will answer parliamentary questions is "solving the problem of the country's difficult economic and social situation". I remind you that the Democratic Party's parliamentary group has asked that the parliamentary issues related to this topic be answered by Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Velimir Ilic, Minister of Construction and Urbanism, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Zoran Mihajlovic, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has writtenly informed the National Assembly that at today's session they are not able to attend Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, due to earlier commitments and an appointed official route. Before we move on to asking questions, let me first remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refer to the way MPs are asked about the topic in question. The right to ask questions shall be given to all MPs: the right to ask the first question shall be a representative of the proposings, then the Presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting from the representatives of the least-numbered parliamentary group, to the number-largest parliamentary group and MPs according to the application to ask questions, and to the end of the total time for answering pursuant to Article 213. Rules of Procedure. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply, and verbally during the duration of the reply. The MP can ask up to three questions. Answering parliamentary questions may take the longest 180 minutes, regardless of the number of MPs present in the hall. The time within the framework of the international MP is orally asking the question for the longest three minutes, and the answer to that question is five minutes longer. After answering, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more signatures for a total duration of up to two minutes, and the answer to this request can last for a total of up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to the asked question, according to the order of applications. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall be applied accordingly, by not providing replicas and an indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 216. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. We're moving on to asking questions. Mr Stefanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17844	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, DS request for an emergency session on the catastrophic economic and social situation has been caused by your poor measures in the economic sphere, in the fiscal sphere and in everything else you have done so far. We have, of course, come here to address you in the form of questions as to how you think you can solve this problem. What do you mean these catastrophic indicators in our economic environment, in the standard of living for the people of unemployment to solve. We warned on time that this would happen in September when you adopted the rebalancing, changes in tax laws, as well as two months later, when you adopted this, highly unrealistic budget that led to the tragic economic situation that Serbia is facing today. The IMF warns that the deficit will be one and a half billion more than planned. Are you aware of the loss it is, otherwise it is worth half of Telecom or almost all the budgets of local self-government in Serbia. You didn't take us seriously, you called us thieves and ignorants, and in the end, it proved to be right, that you were recklessly and irresponsiblely leading public finances and economics, and that such leadership unfortunately leads to the bankruptcy of the Serbian state. As you always have, as you pointed out in the tax code case last week, and this time you searched for a straw of salvation in the pocket of Serbian citizens. There is no question of freeze of pay today, Mr. Prime Minister. This was done in September of last year, unfortunately when you amended the Budgetary System Act. Unfortunately for us now, there is a reduction in wages and pensions, respected citizens, because there is nowhere to pay. You've brought the citizens to the brink of existence, which is evident through the decline in retail sales of 18%. When the people don't buy, the economy has no one to produce where to pay taxes from. As much as you increase them, we are in a vicious circle whose only logical result is an empty register from which no pay, no pensions, no social contributions can be paid. Believe us, as citizens of this country, this data doesn't make us a bit happy. No idea, no vision, no economic progress, no chance of saving Serbia, and that's what we've been telling you for months, no long-term strategy, no certain economic policy and stable operating conditions for domestic businessmen and foreign investors, there's no better life for our citizens. The DS is not and will not sit side by side in the comfortable position of the opposition party and watch the country fail. As soon as we chose new leadership, we developed a serious, precise and economic programme to get Serbia out of a crisis that has already been available to the public for three months. Otherwise, she asked for the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, Entrepreneurs, this session. Have you ever spoken to them, have you spoken to Mr. Knezevic, the unions to hear what an alarming state is in our social sphere of economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17845	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, is certainly not the main point of today's session of persuasion that the economic situation in Serbia is extraordinary. 'As you know, that's what I was talking about when I was elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Also, as you know, this economic crisis, unfortunately, is one of the few major global crises not created in the Balkans or fortunately. The consequences are also felt here. It is impossible to say that Serbia will go through a major global economic crisis without consequences. These consequences are felt in all spheres. You cannot talk about the successful functioning of the state, the achievement of the main function of the state, including socio-economic, without revenue in the budget. All the countries in the world, including the biggest and richest, have faced this problem. If we look at their parameters, they probably feel that their crisis is catastrophic. As you know, the government of the Republic of Serbia has argued from the beginning that the burden of the crisis cannot be shifted to the poorest layers of the population, which means that it is not going to go by the principle of reducing or freezing wages and pensions, but that it is being discussed and that the question is being considered at what speed and percentage it will grow. When it comes to the IMF, I'd just like to remind you that this government has not broken the arrangement with the IMF, but rather the previous one. That's not true. We were in that government together. When was the biggest deficit in the budget? Mr. Djelic, you're not that much of a financial expert, you've now failed your exam. At the time of the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the deficit was almost 8% and according to the Fiscal Council. I didn't come here to argue with you about it when it was worse, but what we can do now, and you know very well why it was such a deficit because of the election because it was supposed to be a better result in the election. We don't need to discuss these categories right now, this is a political debate, this isn't economic. You didn't schedule this debate to discuss economic parameters, you scheduled this debate to lead a political fight. I also remind you, I am chairman of the Social-Economic Council and I am talking to trade unions and employers. We have to deal with problems. We need to see what path we are going to go forward, as we have made difficult decisions in the policy area, for sure we need to talk about which way to move on. I'm just standing at the point where it can't be restricted, it can't just be saved, it has to be invested in development. That only saving will bring good to this country is impossible. That concept has fallen all over Europe. Angela Merkel said that we needed a democracy that was tailored to the market. Social Democrats, your alleged ideological colleagues from Germany, say we need a market tailored to democracy. So instead of accusing ourselves, let's bid on what's proposed. What are the suggestions for solving such a difficult economic situation? I will remind you in the end one thing, and I want to apologize to you, because as you know, the country is in a very large diplomatic activity, with the aim of ensuring a positive decision on getting a date for starting EU membership negotiations. Here, in parliament I will have to see the foreign ministers of the two countries, the other ministers will stay here and I'll be here all day. Also, Foreign Minister of Great Britain is coming today. In the afternoon, I'm going to Romania to solve problems so we don't get into a situation like last time, that and when Germany says yes, then Romania says no, at the end. (President: Time. ) I just want to remind you of one fact, I apologize, Mr. President, in all the public opinion studies, and even those researchers that Boris Tadic is still president of Serbia because they did not anticipate this result in the presidential elections, there was never this much trust... (Sendants of the DS are getting out of place: time, time, time.) Is the problem in time? No, if it's a problem, I don't have to talk, it's not controversial, okay, no problem. I came here to answer here, and you won't let me talk. I can go, okay. I just want to say, say what you want, there were no citizens' expectations like this for a long time, I'm worried about that. Citizens expect a lot from this government in all public opinion studies. They also expect an improvement in the economic situation. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: We saw it on Oplenc. Speaking of Oppenco ladies and gentlemen... (President: Mr Dacic, give them a chance to ask you that question. No, I don't, but don't throw it at me, I won't even come back. I didn't come here because I had to, and I could have made up my own commitments. I could have said I couldn't come. Of course, there are always excuses for all this. I always came here when you called me and that's why I'm asking you not to throw it at me, because I never threw it at you while you were talking. I know it's your manners, Mr. Milivoevich, from the Fridays. When they came to your house to harass you like you did others, then you said it wasn't democratic. Act as you expect others to treat you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17847	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17848	I thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry the Prime Minister had to leave. Unfortunately, we only have two minutes, and I'm asking you to extend for at least two, since you've allowed the Prime Minister. I think that, I don't know why the ruling coalition isn't in a position to finally do something about this situation where Minister Dinkic keeps pointing out to us, and they're hiding in other things, and as we heard from the prime minister, they make up commitments. Why do you do that when you've put your hands up nicely in the government and voted in parliament on these disastrous economic, tax laws, I mean, first of all, the SNS? What's a fact and what's besides all this throwing and some Prime Minister Dacic's eating can't be erased is that the budget deficit is in a catastrophic state and amounts to, gentlemen, 78 billion dinars. It's twice as big a hole in the budget as it was planned only a few months ago. It's called amateurism and intricacies. The causes are reduced revenue due to poor tax reform and irrational consumption, but you have therefore invested 300 million in Valjevo-Loznica railway, tourism subsidies 40 million, "Fiat" 15 million, Republika Srpska 20, the famous "Brodograding" that are not available, 11. Public debt has increased by four, the total net growth is four billion euros per year for this government. Where did the money go, that's my question? What infrastructure facility was built? It's been confirmed to be a worse rating in terms of credit rating than during last government. Standard of life, the number of people registered with the National Employment Service, gentlemen, has increased by 30,000 unemployed in the first two months, or you over 500, today I heard 600 unemployed daily. Salaries in March are 7.6% lower than in March 2012. Pensions are down 6.2 in March than they were a year ago. Traffic in the store is a little lower in March by 18%. We have a decline in all spheres of life, we have a decline in the exchange of agricultural products, which so far has been unrecorded, etc. We can talk about this by tomorrow, unfortunately, we have very little time. The conclusion is that you have run public finances unprofessionally and irresponsibly and that you have led the state to bankruptcy. No vision, no strategy, no economic certainty, no respected citizens. Following Dinkic's support and tax laws, SNS and the SPS were proudly placed in this play by the destroyers of the Serbian economy. What are you going to do about it when citizens ask you tomorrow if you support this kind of economic policy? What will be your answer, dear colleagues? What's safe, and I end up with, is that we're sorry that these are the parameters. We wish we didn't have to talk about this today. The Democratic Party has created a detailed programme to get out of the crisis, read it, it will benefit you gentlemen. Do something. You can't run a state and economy like this. You can't all hide behind Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17849	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17850	I don't hide behind anyone, and I always speak plainly. No one will say that Serbia is not in trouble, you heard the prime minister. However, it will take us nowhere to bid as much as your government you led was responsible, and what is now to convey the effect. Please provide accurate information in the discussion and it would be very good to make concrete suggestions, not only to say – we have a program. Say, what should be done specifically, because this seems very general? What did you say incorrectly? First and foremost, it's not a state before bankruptcy, but it can go bankrupt unless certain measures are withdrawn, some of which are unpopular. It can go in in a year, two, three days, now nothing can happen. We have enough money and we pay our pensions and wages on a regular basis. The problem is that pensions are low and what's now a question, how do you continue to coordinate salary growth and pensions in the public sector, is the private sector itself determining what kind of wages will be? We will have a consultation within the ruling coalition within the next seven days and we will face you with a concrete programme that we believe should stop the growth of the budget deficit. I will certainly not personally allow the budget deficit to be even roughly equal to that left by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. I guarantee it. I guarantee you one more thing, whoever wants to say that pensions are going down, doesn't tell the truth. There's no way pensions can be reduced, but the question is how much they can grow. It's something we need to discuss. What we can guarantee is that pension payments will always be regular. I took over the management of public finances in early 2004 in another government and found huge debt to pensioners. We then paid back all those pensioners' debts and introduced a regular pension payment. You know exactly when pensions go. That hasn't changed until today, nor will it change. That's just out of the question. What is the question is, how do you reduce the budget deficit, given that 52% of Serbia's total budget are just wages and pensions, and another 20-25% are legal obligations based on social contributions? So, the savings maneuvering space isn't big at all. On the other hand, the fact is that there must be a balance between the austerity measures needed and the investment. We are looking for this answer and every constructive contribution by the opposition and MPs of the ruling coalition will be more than welcome. Mr. Stefanovic, it's not fair to talk about March's pay, not to mention April's. I'm not saying something special happened, but it may have increased 10% because of the payment of the first part of May's salary. Why don't you cross-reference the latest statistical data, but you'll have to deal with the pangs of data? It's also not true about unemployment. We don't brag about the situation in that field. She's heavy. The real situation will not be known until June, when data on the labour force survey is published, because they are published only twice a year. They're the only real ones to see exactly how many people are really looking for a job. But the fact is, your data certainly won't be good. We will not be able to boast of it, nor could the previous government boast of it. What is a fact, according to this statistics you're talking about, is not an increase in the number of unemployed on the record in the first four months by 30,000, but by six thousand, which is not a god knows what, but six thousand and thirty thousand, that's five times less. Just look at the statistics and you'll see it. Public debt has increased by 1.4 billion euros since the beginning of the year. First of all, we went out to the capital market to pay back the debts that the previous government had left in the amannet, because it increased interest expenditure four times in four years. What's also true is that one good part of the debt we haven't even been able to pay back yet. You saw those tolls yesterday? Well, those debts to the passengers didn't come from now, in this year, nor did they come from the last quarter of last year. So we were able to repay our debts to the health institutions. We paid 18 billion dinars to save deposits in Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobanka, and that didn't come from the government's work. If we start talking about how the previous government worked, I don't think we're gonna be on the right track. That's what I think. It's your right to go in this debate. The constructive debate is that you say what you think you should do today and say it without demagogy, but openly, what you would do and whether you want to help in the citizens' interest to implement the measures that are good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17851	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17852	Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament Speaker, fellow MPs, I will ask specific questions. I'm going to ask questions that will be able to answer specific things, and first of all I'm going to ask a question about the law on the origin of property because that law could determine who it was in the previous period and how it acquired property, to see where it comes from, whether it's from those times of political ties, whether it's from cigarette smuggling. In the previous period, we knew perfectly who these people who were building fairies, haccendas, who lived more than rudely rich and today have an unprecedented large capital, and when we entered their tax cards, we would immediately find that there is a proportionality in what they did and in their capital. During that time, Serbian citizens, through their backs, with various tax duties, must fill Serbia's budget, and those who have robbed those citizens or who have misused the law are free and uninterrupted with their property. I'm interested, I'm sorry that the Prime Minister isn't here, how will the property be taken away? What does this bill foresee? He will have SPO and DHSS support unless there is selectivity in it. When we voiced at the beginning of the mandate that we would support everything that is in the interest of the Serbian citizens when it comes to government decisions, we remain in that position. We remain in the position to support the maximum, unreserved fight against crime and corruption, the tycoons that robbed Serbia, but there are many people who have found, which in Serbia would be the job of many, the holes in the law, to use political ties. One of them was also a member of the government and many others were members of some other previous governments. I am interested in how and how these people's assets will be treated and how that property and their wealth will be the impulse that will take the burden off poor citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17853	The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17854	I can only tell you that the Department of Justice is working on a draft of this law on a proposal from the professional public. You know that Professor Cupic had these initiatives, as did your party in the previous period. The Department of Justice is doing what it does to draw up a draft law on the investigation of the origin of the property. We only have members in that commission and I still don't know the results of the work. It wouldn't be serious if I told you about the details of that law now, but you yourself said the purpose of the law. What I can say, which is from the work of my ministry, by yesterday's vote, you confirmed the proposal to impose harsh sanctions on those who do not report property over 350,000 euros. The deadline for reporting that property is until June 30th and will not be moved. The penalty for those who do not report property will be 3% of the undeclared assets. After June 30th, cross-checking of income estimates and assets will begin. If the difference is determined, it will be taxed from 20% to that difference. If the process finds that there have also been criminal offences in the acquisition of that property, then criminal charges will be filed and not tax collectors will deal with these people, but investigative authorities. This second law you're talking about, it will exclusively be the subject of the work of investigative authorities, where the tax police will only provide technical support.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17855	The word is Mr. Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17856	I will continue to be specific and will talk about a new tax policy, ask the question I asked the other day when we talked here about a set of new tax laws adopted in this parliament against which the SPI and DHSS voted. That's when I asked, and I didn't get an answer from the finance minister. Is there a possibility in the future that the city's rent i.e. The area where the buildings are located, pay by meter by cubic, and not by meter by square? We all know that paying per metre square is the most appropriate for those who have buildings, malls, and I return to my first question, so to those who are in the previous period, and Serbian citizens know perfectly how they acquired wealth. Whoever has a big mall must pay as paid in London, so-called. Kubatur. So his entire space has to be taxed, not just the area on which his building is located. I think it's very important and I'm going to ask one more question. I've been here since 11.6.2011, I've asked you several times, and I've printed the website B92, which says three Serbian tax tycoons and contributions owe 170 billion dinars. This was transmitted by a website whose television has a national frequency. It notes that all their debts amount to more than 500 billion dinars, which is about five billion euros. I never got an answer from you. I ask, is it true and will the tax authorities determine who it is and how it has allowed these people to owe so much money in the previous period, and that their companies function in a smooth manner?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17857	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17858	As for the question of establishing the basis for paying the city's rent, I will indeed propose what you have said with the experts working on the Refunds Act. Otherwise, we're preparing to change some other laws where we think there's an unfair way of taxing right now. That's for example. The charge of taxis for vehicles with greater loss does not necessarily mean that they are more luxurious, given that they can be old. By having more cubicity, people pay a bigger tax on registration even though it's not just. So we're going to change that in that law. This is a similar thing you ask. Our goal is to make the tax system as fair as possible, and I'm going to give this proposal to my associates that when we determine the Law on Refunds, we can consider the question of how to determine the city's rent? Is it the experience of modern countries to go by cubicity, not by square meter? If that's what we're really gonna do, I'm not an expert on this matter and I'm gonna ask my associates about it. As far as tax debts are concerned, that law must be the same for everyone. We publish the names of all the biggest taxpayers on the site, in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Be assured that everyone who is the biggest tax debtors is triggered by a process or by forced charges, or they enter into a system of legal reprogramme that applies equally to everyone. In that case, if they don't pay the wars, they're back into forced payment. We'll do one more thing now. In order to increase the transparency of the system and to ensure that people know exactly who does not pay taxes on the one hand, and on the other hand, which are companies that regularly pay taxes to the state, that there is no doubt whether they are those who owe, we will publish both. So, we're going to publish a list of neat payers, as well as those messy ones. According to the disorderly, we will not be tolerated, there will be forced collection, regardless of whether it is the richest, most powerful man, there will be a forced payment without exception.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17859	The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17860	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group Mr. Finance Minister. The issue concerns the problem facing our businessmen as well as citizens. It's a gray and black economy and a black market. We know the state of Serbia's economy is dramatic. Some businessmen think they can't or can barely survive those who work legally. They are burdened with taxes, contributions, sometimes control of financial police or inspectors and with unfair competition because of the existence of a black and gray economy. The biggest problem of our economy is the gray and black economy, as well as the black market. The grey economy in Serbia is 15% higher than in the region. About 28% of entrepreneurs deal with the gray economy. Their workers get minimum wage, they pay taxes and contributions, and most of their salary in cash. We're getting worse, so-called. The black economy and the black market. Businesses working in the black economy don't pay the state taxes and contributions at all. Since the unemployment assessment is very high, our citizens are forced to engage in black and we have come to believe that their rights are equal to the rights of slaves in the slave society. We can see that in addition to flea markets, illegal warehouses, bars, warehouses, parking lots appear on black. One thing is certain, the black market is the greatest evil of our Serbian economy. If our citizens somehow come to save some money to buy new shoes or clothes, or some new white technique, they are forced to buy goods of uncontrollable quality and origin in our shops. Our stores are full of Chinese goods or counterfeit goods from known companies. We buy shoes that fall apart after the first rain on our feet, buy refrigerators or washing machines that break down before the warranty deadline, if they have one at all. The question is what measures will the government take to reduce the level of gray and black economies, the black market and how and with what measures will consumer rights protect?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17861	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17862	You're absolutely right. What is our plan is to protect all those who regularly pay taxes to the state and vice versa, so that everyone who avoids it gets the most intense attack. Why? First of all, because of those who are in the system and who pay and contribute to pension workers, for health care and taxes to local self-government and state. It's not loyal to competition if someone's working and paying all the debts to the state, and on the other hand, there's a shop that doesn't pay for anything. There must simply be no tolerance and no social demagogy. I said that in the debate these days, maybe not everyone can be an entrepreneur. The one who can do it is the one who's capable of obeying the law and if one large number of people can do it, then everyone has to. The most important thing here is that the law is strictly applied equally to everyone. I guarantee you that our tax administration will be equal to everyone and that we will try now that we have amended the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, to apply something that we did not have as an instrument in our hands so far. It is also possible to control unregistered activities and not registered activities. So far it's controlled only by a market inspection that's small, with several hundred inspectors and it's impossible to control. Now we have about 7,000 people in the IRS, who will throw themselves at that problem, above all, to protect those who pay their taxes neatly. Also, other inspection services that determine product quality control should do their job more up-to-date. You're absolutely right. What does the consumer have to do with buying some clothes or shoes and falling apart in two months, so he has to go shopping again? He allegedly paid cheaper, because he wasn't a good quality, and then he had to pay again. However, it is clear that it is in the consumer's mind - let me pay as little as possible, because the difficult situation is and he does not think about how long it will take him to buy some goods. In that sense, respect for quality standards in both industrial products and food products is something that is very important and that our services must respect, to protect citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17863	The word is Mr. Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17864	Thank you for your response, Mr. Secretary. I think we've had these last few years of trying to reduce the gray and black economy, but I hope that these measures of yours will bring us some positive tendencies to solve this problem. But unfortunately, you haven't said a word about the customs service that belongs to your ministry. We think one of the biggest generators of the black market is the inefficient operation of the customs service. The work of the Customs Service is only controlled by internal control. So there's no external control. Through customs, we've got unrecorded goods in our country, into our market. This increases unfair competition for businesses operating legally on the market. So customs should legalize this unregistered goods. Then, the problem is still the work of the so-called. Phantom companies supplying goods to our market, with illegal goods. I have to point out Chinese goods again, because it's one of the biggest sources of the black market. The volume of black market traffic in our country is over 50% JDP, they say. The question is, Mr. Minister, how and when will you improve the work and control of the customs service to lower the import of black goods into our country?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17865	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17866	There's nothing left for us but to invite both businessmen and citizens to help. We will also open special telephone lines, if anyone sees customs officers abuse their position, participate in corruption, deliberately miss out on customs-free goods. We're going to give one anonymous line, or it's possible to report it, and we need to control it with the police and with the investigative authorities, and if someone gets caught in that corruption, it has to be removed from that service. Of course, wherever there is doubt, I will report it primarily to the police and other investigative authorities, to examine these crossings, which are suspected of deliberately missing goods without customs, and thus affecting the growth of the black market. Plus, we'll open up to the tax administration and customs administration a phone line at the central where everyone will be able to answer without any fear if they notice anything that's wrong with the work of both tax officials and customs officers, so we can check it out first, if necessary, to look for cooperation with other authorities like the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17867	The word is Mr Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17868	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I think today, apart from the ministers who answer our questions, it has been useful to invite the Governor of the National Bank, since it has changed the law and the Assembly should take care of its work, but I'm sure you will, Mr. President, answer that. To go back to the subject we're talking about today. For several years now, Serbia has been constantly talking about how we are in an economic crisis. I think if we're talking about the period from 2005 to 2008, or even going back a little bit, what's going on in Serbia today is reality, it's not a crisis. I think what was these few years, and that was the growth that was exclusively created on the basis of the diabolical borrowing and growth of the financial sector, and today we pay the price of all of it, when everyone was acting like drunk millionaires, taking loans that can't be returned today, that was something that wasn't normal. What we have in Serbia today, which is an enormous crisis in the real sector, and the fact is that we are no longer producing anything that someone wants to buy at the price at which it was produced, that we are absolutely not competitive in any sector, except perhaps in the area of the food industry. It is today an economic situation in Serbia. The prime minister mentioned in his brief but content statement, that saving the topic that shouldn't be the ultimate solution to our problems and that what we should probably talk about here is growth, and I didn't hear anyone mention it in some consistent and comprehensive economic policy, given that today the growth of our economy is between 0.1% and I think it's extremely worrying, because if we continue this progress, in the next 50 or 100 years we'll only get to the level of where we were at the end of the 1980s. Yesterday we had an extremely useful panel, where we had a joint session of two committees. The finance lady pointed out that our financial system is extremely banking, as she called it. I think that a large part of the problem that we are facing today is just about the financial sector and the inability of the financial sector to deal with 30% of bad placements and the fact that the state is constantly in debt to banks at a rate far greater than what the private sector can pay. My question would be about why there are no capital markets in Serbia? Why is it exclusively dominated by foreign banks and exclusively takes care that foreign creditors are satisfied, i.e. we have very low growth, and on the other hand we have a constant pressure to keep the course stable and the budget deficit is kept at a low level, since I don't see how, apart from the deficit, growth in Serbia can be accelerated?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17869	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17870	You've divided this question into two parts. The first is related to the model of economic growth and was in its own time the right to debate in recent years, what kind of growth model Serbia needs. What is certain is that the only long-term sustainable model of economic growth is an export-based model, as Serbia is a small country and any other growth model is simply inappropriate. The fact is that Serbia's biggest problem is not at import level, but in small exports. This will be the first year where a change in the model of economic growth will yield some sensitive result, though not enough. In what way? This is going to be the first year where exports are actually going to go into economic growth, because we're waiting for the growth of exports, here tomorrow, I think, the data is coming out in four months. So far, we only have for the first quarter. It was 22% in the first quarter compared to the first quarter last year. It even indirectly reduced VAT revenues in some way; because we return VAT more if we have larger exports. If we'd exported less, it's a paradox, we'd have had better revenues in the budget, because we'd have less VAT back. That's why this data doesn't scare us, because we want to have a higher amount even at the cost of lower VAT revenues, or at the cost of higher returns to exporters. Since, in the end, the end place of consumption of these goods is abroad, not Serbia, and then returns VAT to them, which is the case in all countries in Europe. What is important is the pace of growth of gross domestic product. Looks to me like he's going to be a little bit more than two percent of what we planned this year. We planned for economic growth to be 2%. First quarter confirms our assessment. Our assessment is also confirmed by the European Bank's Report on Reconstruction and Development and other international financial institutions, including the IMF. It seems to me, based on some indicators for April and some omens for this month, that the second quarter will be better than the first one and that we can expect, if agriculture is successful, and the real thing is because last year was one of the worst in Serbia's history, because of the great drought, I believe that our gross domestic product will be higher, but, quite realistically speaking, insufficient in terms of needs. Without the growth of gross domestic products 4%, 5% a year, you're absolutely right, hardly we can have a situation where it feels. The particular problem is that the growth of gross domestic product is unevenly distributed, because there are branches that are in a very difficult situation, there are branches that are progressing. What was the second part of the question is about the financial sector. It's the exact same conditions for both domestic and foreign banks. This also confirms the fact that among the first two largest banks in Serbia, there is one side, one is domestic. The Intheza Bank as a foreign party, the Commercial Bank as a majority domestic. The state is the majority owner of the Commercial Bank. In this sense, the capital market is nowhere in the world today because of the global financial crisis, and we do not expect it to be able to make a key contribution in Serbia at this time, which does not mean that there is no need to pay attention to the capital market in the future, because when the financial crisis is over in the international scale, then the capital market will again begin to gain importance. What is important is what we are doing, talking to businessmen, with economic experts, to come up with a model of re-industrialisation of Serbia, which is necessary. We've already made our proposal, as Ministry of Finance and Business, but we don't want to be the only ones that we're proposing. We want to hear suggestions from both of you MPs, from businessmen, from the people of the economic profession and then, during June of the month, to bring the best possible model for Serbia's re-industry. Our idea is that four sectors should be particularly stimulated, that four sectors, when we only talk about industry, should be drawn to growth, which is the automotive industry, which has already proven to contribute to export growth by 20% and I am talking not only about the "Fiat" but also to autocomponent manufacturers. I'm also talking about how we have to include everything, bring another car manufacturer to Serbia. We work and we work and we try and I think we'll get some results in the next period. The second thing is information technology, where the base is in science, where we have to do a lot more because we have talent, but the state needs that talent to encourage it to come to a full extent. The third thing is the food industry because we have agriculture and the fourth thing is the defence industry. The defence industry is one of the few industries that has endured the legacy of the past, the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, it has been strong in the former Yugoslavia, it is currently one of the more vital branches in Serbia. (President: Time. ) I'm only talking about industry, and of course energy, agriculture, as other industries, and how important, as well as telecommunications for overall economic growth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17871	Thank you before Mr Stojsic continues, just to brief notice. First, I ask you to welcome the representatives of the Assembly of the Municipality of Žitište and the employees of public institutions who are currently monitoring today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. I have remained in debt to Mr. Stojsic for one notice regarding the governor's presence alone. So, I don't mind if other participants in the debate attend certain sessions, but since this is about the section concerning the control role of the National Assembly, where questions are asked to the members of the government, we can formally call on the members of the government only to attend. Also, since the session was convened at the request of the DS parliamentary group, they have been convened, in their request specifically, by the ministers, which members of the Government want to be present at this session, and these are only the parliamentary restrictions we have. Mr. Stojsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17872	I appreciate the explanation. I think only the governor's presence would also give some answers, because I think monetary-fiscal policy should have some touch, so I would also be able to relate to Minister Dinkic's response to growth. I don't know if you've met, the reason why I asked how we intend to boost growth in the next period is paper, i.e. paper made up by the IMF and made some parallels between what was happening in England after World War I and what is happening today in the EU countries, the type of Spain, Portugal, Greece, and to some extent it could fall to Serbia, which is that monetary restrictive fiscal policy, high austerity measures and a more or less fixed course, led to them not returning, or having had very low growth and not returned to the level of GDP and public debt ratios until the 1990s. So it took them 70 years to restore the financial stability of the budget compared to GDP. I think that what today is monetary-fiscal policy and fiscal policy, they called it "fiscal ironing" and "monetary necrophilia", literally in those words, and many today in the modern economy think that what they are today is saving measures in Europe and the way they are being implemented in the long term will cause completely catastrophic consequences. I don't know how much we're forced to meet such ideas, which, to a large extent, come from international financial institutions. As for the banking sector and the capital markets, my comment was on the fact that I am sure that since our economy is not only over-indebted and sub-capitalised, for any future growth it would have to have access to capital markets, where the ratio of capital and total debt would be reduced, and some regional stock exchange, I think it would be very helpful, because citizens also have no place to invest their resources, except to keep them in banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17873	Time. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17874	As for the policy of course, my opinion and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is that we agree that the policy of the fixed course is not good. Serbia needs a stable course, and that does not mean a fixed course. We're against all the proposals that say we need to introduce a fixed course. Why? Because it destimulates exports and because it pleases those who are the richest. A real and stable course is something Serbia needs. That means he's more or less monitoring inflation movements. So there's no big oscillation in the course. The central bank should intervene even when the course is over-depressive, but even if it's over-pressive. In other words, he must buy foreign exchanges from the market in that case and keep it stable. A stable course means that it adapts to inflation movements. What's good at this point is that inflation is slowing down, and it's quite significant. In the first four months of this year is below 2% - 1.8% or 1.9%, I don't know now by heart, given the cumulative trend since the New Year. However, it is certainly necessary to be careful and continue with this trend to make inflation fall. Inflation is still much higher than in other European countries. In this regard, I understand both the Central Bank and its measures to make sure that it further knocks down inflation. I absolutely support your idea of a regional capital market and a regional stock exchange, because Serbia is such a small country that I don't see that even after the global financial crisis has passed, it will be more important here. All the ideas about creating a regional stock market are welcome. We'll talk about this with our regional colleagues. We will also talk to countries that have stronger standards, such as the Vienna Stock Exchange, such as some other stock exchanges nearby. If all the countries in the region want to make one joint regional stock exchange, I think that's a good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17875	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17876	Mr. President, dear ministers, dear colleagues, I have a question for Mr. Knezevic. The issue of irrigation is also how jobs are under way with projecting and performing work on primarily cleaning up existing canal networks and then building a new channel network. Last year, much has been done to clean up above all existing irrigation and disposal systems. They were launched design projects for very significant areas of new irrigation systems. Serbia and produce about 10 and a half billion euros in food in agriculture, which in the food industry, and I think it's never enough to say what our potential is. I saw almost in the press that it was estimated at 50 billion euros, but there are serious estimates that we can produce 100 billion euros in food. These are the three GDP current that we now have and more so we are having these debates – can we defend pensions and salaries and can we even do our financial commitments? Agriculture deals with two and a half million people. Half of them as exclusive work. So about 450 thousand families and half of them are engaged in complementar activity. It is the poorest part of Serbia's citizenship. For most of them, these topics are not even on the topic, because they neither receive pensions nor have any other benefits from the state, excluding subsidies, and this is a special topic, the topic of agrarian policy. What I think is essential is that irrigation and disposal systems and basic and elemental infrastructure are a presumption of any major agricultural policy and economic policy in terms of food production and the use of these exceptional potentials that Serbia has. This is why my question to you, Mr. Minister, is – what can we expect in 2013 and what are your projections for a four-year period if the government goes to the next regular elections?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17877	Minister Knezevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17878	Thank you very much. We fully agree in the conclusion and on the perspective of our agriculture, on its potential and agree that the construction of irrigation channels is one of the strategic objectives and of this ministry, and of this government. According to long-term hydrometeorological forecasts, which we looked at, analyzed and considered, from the next five years four will be similar to last year's. So irrigation is necessary to survive first of all, and only then would that potential we have reactivated. All works that were started in the previous period and through the Land Administration and through the Water Directorate in accordance with the project documentation, which exists, will be continued, with the minimum funds for what we want and if we continue at that rate, it would take us very many years. I think time would run over us. Our budget does not have enough potential to support large investment works and therefore we have reached another strategic goal, which is to invest in our agriculture above all those who have enough money and capital and who want to place it in Serbia and our agriculture. A series of conversations were held, as you know from the media, and with the United Arab Emirates, with Kuwait, with Russia and with KIM. A few days ago, the Novosad Fair where representatives of all these countries were also completed, and we discussed very closely the plan and programme for the next period. What is closest to realisation, practically what is before the implementation itself is a contract with the United Arab Emirates Development Fund. We're not talking about Al Dahra, forming a joint venture and their investment in 13,000 hectares, but I'm talking about the direct investment of their development fund. It's about 400m euros. Of these, 200m euros would be used to revitalise the construction of a new channel network and primary and secondary and electricity supply. A feasibility study was completed a few months ago, which speaks of 100,000 hectares over the next three years, where we are forecasting 24,000 hectares for 2013 and 2014. A project implementation unit has been formed. We already have a complete organisational scheme of what it should look like and literally works that will be supported with 20% of the domestic budget can start tomorrow. We expect the signing of a contract with the United Arab Emirates by the end of June so that these papers can begin as soon as possible. First of all, she'll be hired... This will bring a multiplier effect not only to the benefit of farmers, but also to our water companies that are in a rather bad situation have the opportunity to perform these investment works in the coming period. At this point, we're doing an analysis of their skills for all of these works. We think most of them will be able to participate in this investment cycle and, as I said, I expect that in 2014, we will end 24,000 hectares under irrigation. We still have some technical details that we solve with the Ministry of Energy, some technical questions about what the relationship between the users and the state will look like, but it's all going one way, so I don't think it's going to be a problem for these papers to start and end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17879	Mr. Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17880	In Serbia, according to what the institutions are authorised, and able to deal with it, it is possible, as an estimate, without dramatically large investments per hectare, to enable millions and 100,000 hectares of land to irrigate. Now we have 200,000 regular and irregular. It's also good that it's irregular. It's better than it's not. With what you said, Mr. Minister, it's a projection somewhere. In Geo-strategic, there's a term called "panther's jump", when you try to make a big twist in some area of life. I think agriculture and food can make room for "panther's jump" for the Serbian economy. Mr Dinkic, three to five billion euros, that is more for you than for the minister of agriculture, is estimated to cost to provide irrigation for millions and 100,000 hectares of land in Serbia. Given the country's level of duty and everything that opens up the problem over this topic, I think it's a matter of the greatest national interest and my belief is that there is no more valuable infrastructure potential for Serbia than this. I'm just going to give you one example for a microcellin. I live in Shabca, and there people grow 100 acres of strawberries. Over 200 wells have been excavated over the past ten years in this section, which is heading towards Krupanj, therefore in Pocerina, and today there are six hundred acres of strawberry. Now, it's interesting for a part of the economic policy led by Mr Dinkic. Investment in one hectare of strawberries is 10 and 12,000 euros. More or less, like the biggest donations we have as incentives for the development of industry. Annual earnings at the 10-year average level are not below 10,000 euros per hectare, and are also 15,000. So in three years, since strawberry is a three-year plant, three times ten thirty, plus those 10 investments, it's somewhere transporting 40-50 000 euros. Six hundred acres, somewhere about a thousand households are involved in the production of strawberries. They will earn about ninem euros this year. One family has average income for opportunities in our country. A little more than two months each year is used to process strawberries. (President: Time. ) This is an illustrative example, and I wouldn't go in, if I didn't spend time, I don't have it, in other kinds of fruits and vegetables, in the need of intellectual infrastructure, which is with professional people, we help manufacturers and with economic infrastructure, with logistics centres, which should be six to 12 in Serbia, to increase the value of this kind of production, because when we sell largely in the freezers, it is then resold on quantum markets, in Russia and in Western Europe. That stuff's worth two or three times less than selling in a half-pound package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17881	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17882	I would give another illustrative example, which will confirm what you were just saying, which means how significant irrigation is. It's two parcels of the same producer in Vojvodina. One was under the bay system, the other wasn't. On one last year, there were 13 tons of corn per hectare, and the other was zero. So, nothing. That's very important to us. I volunteered to correct myself, as Minister Dinkic warned me that it was not in euros what I was saying but in dollars. So 200 million dollars. I stayed in debt for these other $200 million. So this is exactly the other $200 million that's going to go through some loans to our farmers, with a long period of time, with a long grace period, with a very favourable interest that hasn't been on our market so far. It's designed to buy a mechanism for gulf systems, but also, what you were talking about, to get fruit material, to raise multi-annual plantations, a basic herd. As for strawberries, yes, strawberries, raspberries are our extraordinary potential. There's still a lot to work on. We have provided for the Law on Incentives and Subsidies in that area. Practically, at one request, manufacturers will be able to get 20,000 euros for multi-annual plantings. Therefore, we think about it, it is necessary in Serbia and we are working on it. Mr. Vela Ilic and his ministry are working on changing the spatial plan. We have predicted four large distribution centres in Serbia, because we have learned that there is a great possibility of exporting our products, primarily fruits and vegetables, to the market, not only the EU and CEFTA, but also the distant markets, above all I think of Russia and the Arab countries. However, we lack that logistics. We have completed a feasibility study and performance projects for one of the first distribution centres that should be in the Ships. We're talking about closing the financial structure. For three, four municipalities, which continue on to that distribution centre, this would bring enormous benefits. We predict, as I said, three such centres in Serbia. I think that would allow this logistics to support both better and better production and better and better quality export products.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17883	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17884	Since you really made a proposal in the right direction and you mentioned the benefits that, not only have agriculture, but the food industry of this, I mean that you're absolutely right. Agriculture is the only resource that can make that leap in a relatively short period. When I say a short period, I mean a few years. You've seen for yourself that from the moment of signing the contract with the Fiat to the first effects, it's been four years. It can be done here in a shorter time. Why is that true? Why are you right? Because Serbia currently exports three times less per hectare than Croatia, and 30 times less per hectare than the Netherlands. It is very clear that investment in irrigation, in investments in agriculture, can certainly bring us a relatively fast jump and exports per hectare and complete GDP growth. That's why, after many years, for the first time, we contract serious credit lines for agricultural infrastructure. It's never been done before. So far, loans from both the World Bank and European banks have been drawn by roads. This is the first time, given what Mr. Knezevic said, that last year the yield of corn per hectare was 13 tonnes per hectare, and somewhere zero, it is quite clear that it should be irrigated. What's going to be the biggest challenge, we're going to get that money, we're going to have the Abudabi Development Fund and officially confirmed it, and they said it publicly, and we're going to have it at the second half of this year. It is very important that this money is used more effectively and that the key thing will be the engineering work, the organisation of work on cleaning up existing, digging up new channels. While this second part of the loan, which is intended for farmers, will surely be realised more effectively and more quickly. It is up to us now to organise ourselves within the government and within all those who need to implement this project, because it is not just the ministry, there you have a whole series of water companies, to make effective use of it, and the goal is certainly clear – the development of agriculture and the greater yields per hectare, the larger exports per hectare.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17885	The word is Mr. Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17886	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I have two questions and one conclusion. The first question concerns jubilee education awards. For the past three years, the problem has culminated greatly today because many schools in Serbia have been blocked and local self-government has not foreseen in its budget to pay jubilee rewards. Given that the enlightened employer is the government and the Ministry of Education, not local self-government, so that's my first question – how do local self-government solve this problem? My second question and proposal is to open two offices for economic co-operation, this is a question for Mr Dinkic, one office in Austria, Vienna, and the other one in Rome or Milan in Italy. Why? Because from these two countries, the most investors, in recent years, have come to Serbia. Why are they coming to Serbia? Mr Dinkic, I criticised you in 2002 and 2003, but since 2004, I haven't been able to catch myself having reason to criticize you, given that I am a businessman, if so many investors from the two countries, from Italy and Austria come to Serbia and say that there is economic stability, financial stability, tax security and political stability here, means that this government is doing well, that the president of the state, the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, what they say when they go to a country, that's what the citizens of Serbia say. If this wasn't a demagogue, I'd like to inform you that I brought five Italian investors and one Russian in a year. One Italian factory was built, will employ up to 500 workers. This Russian factory begins to be made on Saturday, a cornerstone is being laid, where you are invited to come and we need to see how to inform these interested investors. Why are Italy and Austria important countries for Serbia, especially Italy? They want to dislocate, Italians, their production plants for several reasons because it is the country that may owe the most in Europe and because the average salary in Italy is 2,200 euros and in Serbia, 720 euros. So, they need to get information daily, we need to go to these cities and those countries, offer them what Serbia has. Also, all the presidents of the municipalities and all the mayors give the government whether they have an industrial zone, how many empty factories there are in their cities, or factories that don't work, how much space they can offer, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17887	The word has been made by the minister of professors. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17888	Thank you. Let me say a few words from the point of view of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development to the question asked by Mr Dragan Markovic. According to the rules of law, paying the jubilee prize is the obligation of local self-government. We've had some situation backwards for years that wasn't explicitly defined in the legal regulations how this issue is regulated and for the past few years it's been arranged in a way that local self-government pays jubilee rewards. Hypothetically, three situations can be expected. Or that the finance ministry, which takes care of the financial situation of the Republic of Serbia and plays its part in the transfer of money to local self-government, did not hypothetically predict the possibility that it did not provide for the amount of funds to pay to local self-government. I'm talking about possible situations, so we can all get to know each other, including you, Mr. Markovic. The second situation we have faced is that local self-governments, individual local self-governments, must not generalise this issue in general, that certain local self-government in their budgets did not provide funds to pay jubilee rewards for various reasons. The third situation we have been facing for years back is that certain local self-government funds received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the Resort Ministry, when I say a realistic thought in the financial sense, the Ministry of Finance, have been spent for other purposes. This was particularly unacceptable in the context of the fact that it is the local environment, that it is about the transfer of funds that has been made, that it is about their teachers, the residents of municipalities, the cities that live in the area and that teach children, who are also their fellow citizens. We can only determine each individual case together with the Ministry of Finance. Unless funds are provided in the cost structure, then we're looking for a solution together with the finance ministry. If there is another situation, then there must be a responsibility of local self-government to the way the funds are spent. It is, unfortunately, a practice that we have seen in some years back and that is why we have just insisted and it seems to me that during last year's talks with representatives of representative unions we at the Ministry of Education and Science and our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance have insisted that local self-government tell us whether they planned the funds or not. Unless they're, uh, through the Ministry of Finance, we can secure those funds. I must tell you that a large number of local self-governments have not come forward and have not shown the need for these funds, from which it can be concluded or that they have had funds or that they may not be interested in the extent to which it should be. We are interested in having all the jubilee awards paid in time to those people who have acquired the right to do so, but the practical solution, only possible, is that, if it happens in some local self-government, we see together, that local self-government, the Ministry of Finance and we, whether they are in the transfer of funds that is provided beyond those own incomes that local self-government is making, whether these funds are planned in the right way. If not, then let's make a concrete move, because it can't be said in advance – the ministry is responsible or not responsible for the ministry. If you suggest that in the future it goes to the level of local self-government, then it's another topic, it opens up the story of both decentralisation and local self-government and schools and many other issues that are part of building one system. In financial terms, we now have a practical state that is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17889	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17890	You're absolutely right about investors from Italy and Austria, and I would mention Germany. Germany is also a major investor in Serbia. There are already economic advisers, one in Rome, one in Milan. There are four advisers in Germany and two economic advisers in Austria, but if it is necessary to strengthen this work, I support this initiative, for the reason that just thanks to investors from Italy in Serbia, we have not only hired our workers, but we have managed to reach a balance in the trade balance for the first time this year. For the first time this year, we will end up with a balanced balance -- as much as we import from Italy, we export as much. Italy is currently Serbia's largest export market, and above all because their companies have invested here, hired our people and are now being sold in Italy, but sold in Russia as well. I want to congratulate you, because, even in times of crisis, if a city like Jagodina can attract even five serious big companies to build it, it means that others can do it, but then you need to see how you did it and you need to tell everyone what benefits you gave to investors and why they came to Jagodin and not in some of you neighbouring municipalities. It is also, of course, not only Jagodina, but unfortunately such municipalities do not have much in Serbia. There are other municipalities all over Serbia that have managed to attract investors, from Saturday to the north, and now Vranje is joining in the far south. Unfortunately, such municipalities should be as many as possible. The real recipe is actually to attract as many investors as possible to hire people. If he can go to your place in Jagodina, I suppose he should be able to do it anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17891	Mr. Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17892	Thank you for your response. I just want to remind you, although I'm sure you know that these large-scale capital owners and producers supply their products to Italy up to 30% and 70% export. Serbia is also very important because of co-operation with Russia and Turkey, where exports to these two major countries are exported without customs duty. In particular, on June 19th in Rome, I am leading a hundred businessmen from Serbia and seven mayors from Serbia, so I take care of how to help others. But since I'm going to fill this industrial zone in Jagodina, I'm asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give me the names of cities and municipalities where to bring investors, and these are municipalities that are underdeveloped and whose presidents cannot organise such trips themselves. What else is important? We brought one of the largest cheese producers in Europe, which will buy milk, 30% of the milk produced in central Serbia, not just for Jagodina. The biggest problem in agriculture so far has been the dairy producers, first by the false attack that makes our milk bad, and then because they don't know what their price is, they don't have a safe buyer and they don't have time to pay for their product. So, the arrival of this cheese manufacturer will help 30% of dairy producers in Serbia, where they will be able to bring their milk to that factory. Also, we should use the names of our athletes, such as Djordjevic, a basketball legend, and live and work in Italy. For example, he helped me to come to the Jagodinska brewery, which is now in restructuring, the largest beer producer in Italy and buy the Jagodinska brewery. He told me that it was poor interest to take advantage of his popularity and his power as the athletes he had in Italy. Not only Italy, when it comes to our athletes, but also to take advantage of our athletes living in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17893	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17894	Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, given that today's session is dedicated to economic and social opportunities in Serbia, I believe that building Corridor 11 is of key importance for Serbia's economic development and the arrival of foreign investors. Given that, through public information, in my opinion, there is not enough information about such an important investment, I believe that in this high house in front of fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments and citizens of Serbia it is very important for me, Mr. Ilic, to answer a few questions that I will ask you about. November 14th. In 2012, you said the construction of Corridor 10, shares from Belgrade to Cačka, will be completed in 38 months. Are the projected works going with the dynamics you predicted? When are the most dynamic works expected and how many kilometers of highways have been built so far on a section from Liga to Preljina made by the Azerbaijani firm AZVIRT? Also, you signed a $334m contract with the Chinese firm Shan Guy High Speed Group on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to build a $1334m stake in Corridor 11 Obrenovac – Ub – Ljikovac – Ljig, a length of 50km and 230m. My question is, do the preparations run with the planned dynamics? When will the construction of the highway begin on this section? How many of our companies and workers from Serbia will be employed? Since you announced that for the Corridor 11 section Belgrade – Obrenovac and Preljina – Požega whose total value is $600 million will be called for a concession tender, can you tell me exactly – when will this tender be called?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17895	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17896	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President of Parliament, I am very pleased that we can discuss this topic in parliament because someone wanted this campaign about building Corridor 11 not to get the right space in the media and I am very sorry that on state television about this big project, the current biggest project that is on the Balkans, we only got 23 seconds. So I'd be happy to explain some of this. I would like to respond to this part of Corridor 11 highway from Ljig to Preljina worth about 308m euros in work running full steam. They're taking him out most of our company. You know when a contractor was introduced, when we did, there was a severe attack that some foreign companies, foreign workers, would come and take over our workers. Currently, there are only 17 workers from Azerbaijan at the Ljig – Preljina site, all workers are domestic workers. Azerbaijani firms have received our workers and given them their salaries. Of course, the rest are done by our companies that carry the project, which is the Energy Project and Planum with their co-operatives. The site is currently developed throughout the length of the League to Preljina. Currently, there are 10 tunnels at the same time, over 20 bridges and a highway route. Since you've decided on this project in time, I now want to inform you that the site has been developed within 50 kilometers and that we have already entered the area of the Municipality of Čačak and that by autumn we will be in Preljina with asphalt, this part in front of Preljina. Of course, there are tunnels, and it's 38 months. In 38 months, it'll be over for sure. Our companies' advances are at 61m euros, a large infusion of both Serbian builders and tollers. This is where the bridges work builders, there's all kinds of walls, river shifts, viaducts, you've seen if you're passing. I am very sorry that big settlements are formed, three large settlements, and these are all small towns, small towns where the workers are located, our workers, foreign workers and all of them use food and buy of course from locals, live and work in these areas significantly better and better, the purchasing power has grown. What's very important is the wages are neat and I'm glad it's going according to the program and project that's planned. As for this second part of Ljig – Lajkovac and Ub – Obrenovac contract was concluded with the company "Shan Guy High Speed Group" worth $340m and the deadline for the start of the works is another 60 days, the end of the works 38 months. Preparations are being made, for 30 days from the conclusion of the contract has passed, and we will these days complete the expropriation done on this part of the League towards Preljina. There are no delays as to our obligations, project documentation and everything else. These works will also be completed in time and I am glad that there is an extremely great interest in this second section, which is Preljina – Požega, which has 9500 kilometers of tunnels and bridges and is an extremely difficult share. There have been attacks here that will defile many monasteries. It is not true that we will pass through the tunnels and the Ovcar-Cablar ravine as a protected zone will be completely safe. As far as this part of Obrenovac – Belgrade is concerned, we are prepared to do so and the government has passed a concession. The government has made decisions, and now we need concessions from financial advisers, elected in the tender, to confirm the government and then enter into the conclusion of two contracts. Those papers should start somewhere on September 1st. Therefore, a total investment of about 1.2 billion euros will be under way. Don't get me wrong, this part that's credited he's just funding this second part that's going to be financed from the toll collection from the credited part. So the budget is not burdened and new credit lines are not opened.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17897	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17898	Minister Ilic I have another question for you – why didn't you sign the General Urban Plan of the City of Belgrade? Has the Commission of the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism made any remarks in time regarding the General Urban Plan of the City of Belgrade, in particular the record for facilities that have not passed the public debate? Why did Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas say that you are holding back the development of Belgrade City and that your claims regarding the General Urban Plan of the City of Belgrade are not correct?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17899	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17900	I'd like to finish this first. You know you're working now on the Danube Bridge on Corridor 11, the bridge is on a bypass around Belgrade. Corridor 11 does not end in Belgrade but is heading towards the Temisovar and it is a European corridor that continues towards Ukraine. We are already in negotiations to do another share, which is Belgrade – Zrenjanin. These days we are negotiating and I hope that we will make an agreement very quickly, so that we will develop a highway in the part of Vojvodina, so as not to tell the Vojvodina that we are building in Shumadia, western Serbia, and we are doing nothing in Vojvodina, and that corridor is passing through Banat and heading towards the Temisvar. I hope, there is also Minister Knezevic, he is also in progress, and everyone from the government starts with the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, we are all together to achieve this project. As far as Belgrade's general urban plan is concerned, it is clear to me that it is blocking Belgrade's development. I understand that he has stalled many investments, but as a minister, I have a big problem, and this is the discrepancies of the city of Belgrade and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on many projects. The city of Belgrade went through a public debate with a general urban plan and he delivered it to the ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia, but the project that passed the public debate and which was graphically shown in the signature itself, in documents that I should sign as a minister has been completely amended. What was in the public debate is no longer in the document to be signed. Municipalities such as Vozdovac, Rakovica signed and petitioned citizens to stop the project. Why? There weren't two cemeterys in the public hearing. Imagine now at a locality in one municipality that the best locations of 23 ha, is allowed to be built, people have built buildings, locals, work for the market and you suddenly enter a small door cemetery at 23 ha and all these projects that have been done cannot get even 40% of the price that is planned. Imagine now citizens who expect in a good location a great investment, great employment and they get a cemetery in front of their houses, bars, etc., and there was no public debate and there are a number of such changes. I asked the mayor of Belgrade to throw out what was not in the public debate, and we will sign the same hour, or to return all this stuff he put in, to the public debate, to confirm and to let the citizens see, to plead, and then to come to the signing. It is true, last night we had a meeting with an Israeli company that works on the Dalmatian street and is a big investor, it is a huge project and a number of other projects in Belgrade. How do we sign something that didn't go through a public debate that didn't pass certain documents provided by law? Therefore, the issue remains open to Belgrade's leadership. Agree with the public debate, public insight what was and we'll sign at the same time. We'll approve everything, but don't let us drag through all the illegals now, many objects that don't deserve it, can't work on certain locations and take just the space that the previous government has promised the Chinese embassy as a memorial centre. He was resold to someone there, to one of our businessmen, and now he's looking for the price of times two to resell, and it's been purposeful for what's going on, for the memorial center, and we're now coming into conflict with a country that invests a lot here in Serbia, you've heard projects, I mean the Republic of China, we're coming into trouble, because they say, so how did you give us the memorial center, and now you've given Nashi Rominga that he's selling us times 2.5, and now he's coming and he's guessing, I'll sell you, but the price is second, of course. It's all in the little door, and now we're wondering who's doing it and why he's doing it, and we're not gonna let that happen. So I'm asking you to understand the situation and get this straight. Not now, the city of Belgrade is building bridges, overpasses and all, as if the right bank of Sava was a highway. The highway was transferred to the planned documents of the city of Belgrade and the previous ministry and the previous government on the left bank of Sava, and the project documentation remains to be done and billions are invested in projects that have no purpose and do not fit into the projects of the Republic of Serbia. So let's get this straight, and we'll sign it right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17901	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17902	Dear Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what I'm going to ask is a matter of employment in two directions, to see how to hire those who are already employed, who have jobs in production interests and how to create new jobs. The first question that will be will be referred to construction. You know that this year, only 40% of the apartments started compared to the previous year, that the Beikovna cement factory stopped working, because there's no one to sell cement, and also one of the questions I'm going to ask is, what about corridor 10, when it's going to be over and why it's not talking about it. At the same time, Bulgarians and Romanians end their corridor 4 and most of the traffic, there is the possibility of being moved to corridor 4. The significant means we've collected for transport will go the other way. On that point, I'm asking a question about bridges in Vienna, because you know that this bridge was supposed to end, that second part in December of last year, and the next deadline was given for May 31st this year and I'm going through every day and I don't see it's going to be over. I want an answer to that question. I'm curious about how to open new jobs when we haven't answered a few questions. One of the questions is how long it's been with the restructuring companies. Namely, one large number of companies where 90,000 people are, simply doesn't know what's going to happen to them, and it comes July 1, 2014, when we're going to have to do this job legally. The second question, although I promised the Minister of Agriculture that I would not ask that question, and it is the PIC "Becay", I can't help but ask that question, why don't we find a solution for a significant company, such as PIC "Becay", it's in bankruptcy, and in bankruptcy for a long time, we've been looking for a solution for that company, so it doesn't happen to us tomorrow, that there's no fate like the NIS that was in debt, losses, when we sold it to the Russians, it suddenly became profitable. How come we can't make a Vienna PIC profitable? Our guests from the city must have left, but what about Agroziv, where we have 1,500 people doing an extremely difficult job, and we have no solution for them? I want to get answers to these questions, for the simple reason, because we have raw materials, good workers, capital and see how we get out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17903	Please sign in, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17904	The first question was how to hire builders and tollers in Serbia. You know what the problem is. The problem is the debts of the previous period, and you know that here in parliament we've been discussing some previous governments, the debt of the passengers. All those who criticized it, re-deployed the road and the debt was almost the same as the debt that was before that. Why? It reinvested in certain environments, and it didn't pay. Therefore, when you take the debt lists, the Vojvodina Development Fund owes a billion, the local administration billions and 900 million, and I don't count what anyone owes and on the maintenance of the roads has had to cut the budget restrictively, which has put the tolls at risk, because they can't handle it, because they get orders from police, certain institutions, and they have to perform the works as soon as possible, but there's no money to pay in time, and these debts are accumulated. The city of Belgrade owes two billion passengers, "Belgrade Road" is owed MB "Miljkovic". That was the deal with no cover. Why? Some municipalities, especially in Vojvodina, have been killed because the Vojvodina Development Fund has been giving solutions that they can borrow and raise loans, and they will pay them for it. However, they did not pay them, they have now lost in court disputes and have to pay out of their budget, and you know what the Development Fund is in which it cannot finance it. The builders have to come out, and we only did 19 billion euros in Iraq over the past few years, and now they've all come to Serbia. There's little market, there's little building, there's no apartments. The financial purchasing power of the population isn't to that extent, we need to get out and we need to work outside. Secondly, many companies have been put into bankruptcy, such as travel companies. If the boss was arrested, property and machinery were placed under the supervision of organized crime. And now you can't work, you have workers, you have machines, but you can't work. It's a big problem that it has to be solved. The issue of bankruptcy has to be resolved and the builders are looking for it these days. They demand that they be able to go out to the markets, to run, to pay them debts that have been accumulated in various ways. But they're not guilty, they've done the work, and they'll have to regulate it. Now it's a big problem that we have huge investments in Serbia, but we don't have our people who can work. Foreign companies are taking over our workers, and it's only the administration in companies, and today it's a big problem for construction and travel companies. They demand that construction firms be stimulated by various benefits, such as other branches of the economy, to run. Now the problem is, you know that the previous government has arranged many jobs, aid to the building. There's money in that fund right now. Do you believe, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I haven't had a single situation in two months, and I have money? I can't pay them. They're not working. They went bankrupt. Do you believe in social housing? We split the funds into 24 municipalities at the end of last year. No apartment is built. Why? Because there's no one to build. Unfortunately, the other day I was in Zrenjanin and Kickindi, there's not a single construction firm that can appear in the tender. You know how much that raises the price if a company comes by because it's now used by foreign companies, they come in and they take jobs? They need to be helped to get on their feet, to get off their feet, to get this through bankruptcy, to get back at them the property they have, the means to work, etc., so they can compete to work. It's sad that it's in the accounts hundreds of millions, and they're out of work, and the money's standing, and they can't build. What's happened now lately is that tenders are going down over every little thing. For example, we're tendering, here in particular in Nis, they can't start building, they have money, they have everything, but let there the firm knocks down a tender for every little thing, has good lawyers, lawyers, and can't start a job. It happens in many cities. (President: Time, Mr. Ilich. We now pray to the builders, not to destroy one another, but to make these jobs work slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17905	Mr. Prime Minister, I will give you my word, but since it is procedurally necessary, I must respect that the MP asks a potentially additional question, and then I will give you my word. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17906	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I'll add one more question. In fact, we've been having talks with the unions in the SDP these days. Everyone insisted on developing social dialogue. The prime minister said that he is the president of the Social-Economic Council, I would only ask that the words go into action, that he really sits down, talk to the unions, and I would ask the ministers to receive union representatives. The other thing is, there's a lot of talk about IT technologies. I suggest there is no Minister of Education to invest in mathematics. Why in math? Well, if we want to have experts in IT technologies, then we have to invest in mathematics, in science in a broader context, because intellectual capital is something that has to be the future. We can bring as many companies as you want, but we don't have any quality experts anymore. So, please, invest more in mathematics, in science, in technical science, that's when this country comes out of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17907	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17908	Well, let me answer that we moved from word to deed, before I go to the Vienna PIC, that in principle, at least in this agriculture sector, and I know that for other colleagues from other sectors, we should talk. We're talking to management, we're talking to unions, and we're trying to get to the best possible solution, which is for sure PIC Vienna. The Vienna PIC has been in bankruptcy for a long time. Three thousand acres of own land, five thousand hectares of land, livestock production, vegetable production, carpal fish production, one exceptional potential now in bankruptcy is working positively. So, what's just amazing is that you go back and say that such a company, with such potentials, can fail. What's the biggest problem, let me say, is 1400 employees. We, apart from this economic moment, must take into account this social moment and take care of 1400 employees, in such a small municipality, where without this PIC "Becay", practically all the full economic activity was dead. What we have done in the previous period is that we have also appointed a new Committee of Trustees, headed by the Ministry of Agriculture, to come through with serious analyses, we have postponed the reorganisation plan for the next two months, until July 15th, and we expect to agree with the strategic partners, who are very interested by July 15th. Of course, it's also very important for this state section that has about 22% in it somewhere. As I said, this problem of labour which is one stone around the neck and we need to find the possibility that most of these people stay and work, and that PIC "Becay" will be restructured in the coming period, to be sold to a strategic partner, who are very serious who will certainly know how to continue the production and to raise it in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17909	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17910	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, I think anyone who attends this session or anyone who can follow us actually sees the causes of the situation that you, Mr. Dinkic, as finance minister, described in that sentence a few days ago and the finding that you can no longer be drained. Where's the Prime Minister? The first vice president was not called from the DS, otherwise he only appears when he is called by Democrats, in other situations he is not present. Where are all the other ministers? What are we going to do with the PIO Fund, with the Health Fund? I respect those of you who came here, but you don't know either, Mr. Prince, what to say about that Vienna PIC, do you? (Goran Knezevic, from the place: I said.) I know, that's the problem. I'm interested, so you represent the government, you know what our position is about you as opposition parties, we think that the only job your ruling coalition could have done, that it did. It is the agreement with Pristina, the Brussels agreements that have been reached. It's been formed by the Implementation Board, it's going towards some logical set-up, the years are lost, the lives are ruined, and that's it. You, Mr. Dinkic, insults Krkobic. The other party is insulting another party leader, yours is responding. Is there any question that can be asked by an MP like this, so that you can answer that and we have solved the economic situation in the country? I'm asking you together, when, is there any chance of you sitting down with each other first, accepting what needs to be accepted? What kind of re-industriousization are we talking about when our investment credit is at 12% and our profit rate is at three or four? What's the negative trade capital in the country? You know that, Mr. Dinkic, you know that very well yourself, our development potentials, Elektroprivreda and agriculture. Do you know what level our potentials are, how many targets, plans, personnel are missing? Whoever comes to that EPS, what does he do with it, Minister? How many professional people are there, what's all this turned into? You're the finance and business minister. Is there any consensus within your ministry on what needs to be done first within the Government? I'm not talking about panic and I don't think the situation is hopeless, but you run this country. You're taking her. Do you have the ability to make that deal or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17911	I'm obliged to answer on behalf of the chairman. As for the presence of ministers and government members, it is true that all those persons who are DS, as a proponent of this topic, have been invited. Most of them are present, except for two who are justifiably absent. So there is no Vice President Krkobic and Verica Kalanovic present, justified. The others are in the Assembly. Unfortunately, they're busy and will come in the meantime. It's just for information. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17912	In order for any government to function successfully, the consensus is understood. If there is no consensus, there is no successful functioning of any government. For our situation, which is difficult, it takes not only a consensus in the government, which I believe we will achieve, but a consensus in the whole society. Someone mentioned talks with the unions, with the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, with businessmen. A consensus is really necessary, because the issue of combating the economic crisis is not just a matter of budgets. The budget refers to the public sector. It's not the key to getting out of the crisis. It is crucial to encourage the economic sector to strengthen, to have where to feed the public sector, and in the meantime it must be known that the private sector cannot have the discipline, but must be encouraged, and that if someone needs to save, it is the public sector and there must be consensus, however unpopular measures are. As far as I'm concerned, as finance minister, I'll make my proposals to my partners. We'll talk about it and I announced it in the next few days. I hope we have a consensus on the measure. I'm not the only one who's gonna propose. They will propose another, not just political partners, but businessmen and trade unions, and we need to make a consensus, because this is not a government issue, this is a question of what happens tomorrow. I certainly won't be the finance minister who's going to tell the truth and say that if we don't change anything, we can avoid the Greek scenario. The Greek scenario was created by those who ran financials in Greece five or six years ago lying to the people and not saying what real dubiosis they were, what a real deficit, what a real participation of the fund's salaries and pensions in the gross domestic product is, and then they woke up one day and found a 12% deficit in gross domestic product. I will never let that happen in Serbia. I'm convinced that even some partners won't let that happen. Given that we have taken over the leadership of both the economy and the entire government under extremely difficult circumstances, first of all, you are absolutely right, we will reach a consensus on the necessary measures, and then we will ask for your support, and you who are in opposition and those who are not at all in politics, because this crisis requires unity. If we're gonna make it, it's gonna depend on all of this. I am convinced that there are solutions, and we will propose solutions that will help us. When I say help, help our citizens and our economy. I can confirm that a consensus is necessary and not all measures will be easy and not all measures will be directed at the budget. He mentioned before that, sir, I didn't answer because there was no time to answer, it can't be tolerated that someone who doesn't have a production for the market can survive, even if they're currently fictitiously hiring some people. These people need to find a job that's sustainable, not fool them still so they can do something nobody wants to buy on the market. So our goal is to look into the truth, get support for it, and then implement the measures that are good for most of this society. Of course, the date for starting negotiations with the EU will make a lot of difference in improving Serbia's image, but we need to make serious changes inside the house and, in addition to encouraging measures in different sectors, to implement appropriate savings in the public sector. I mention, the public sector is not the same as private. The public sector, however, employs as many as 500,000 people, while in private, including agriculture, it employs 1,700,000. We simply need to make a consensus on the objectives and, if you contribute to your constructive proposals, I'm sure it will be good for all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17913	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome students from Arcadia University on your behalf and on behalf, who are currently following today's sessions from the Great Hall Gallery. Please welcome our guests. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Dacic, I have a question for you. By what financial alchemy do you think that, without any serious change, prevent bankruptcy in public finances? At this rate, you will end the year with an 8% deficit. You're saying that getting a date, for which we've all given our maximum, will solve the crisis in the country. Look at the latest number of the English Economist, you'll see the front page, the break-in is Angela Merkel, the dear governor of the European Central Bank, the French president, the Italian and British prime ministers and the real step in the break-in. Well, if they are one step ahead as EU founders, you can imagine how much Serbia's problems will solve by getting a date. What are you going to do as Prime Minister to establish the necessary political unity in your government, and how do you think you can get the support of those you need most to start this country's economy, which is the private sector? Tell me one of the successful Serbian businessmen whose authority is not schemed and intrigued, I'm not talking about those who are, equalized with crime? You often like to say yourself that the one who employs today in Serbia is a hero, but I'm not sure you're ready to say that Kostic is a hero, that Beko is a hero, that I am, for example, a hero. Give me the names of those nameless heroes for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17915	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17916	Of course, once again, an apology for being away for these meetings I've announced to you. No one says they won't and there won't have to be any serious changes. There must be reforms, there must be systemic changes. The problem is that until now, every government has left it to another government, fearing for its political rating. I appreciate you saying this about the date for the start of the negotiations, I just don't want to underestimate that result right now. When it's that easy, why didn't the previous governments do it? When it's so easy, why haven't these decisions been made by previous governments? They were leaving for some future time. Of course, the good news is that the German Foreign Ministry has recommended that the Bundestag give a positive signal, i.e. to approve a positive decision on the launch of Serbia's EU membership negotiations. I'm sure that's not the answer to all the problems. Structural reforms must be our next goal. That is why the ruling coalition on this, along with everyone else, with economists, with businessmen, with trade unions, discussions on all these issues, and to try to come to an agreement or, if there is no agreement, to take measures that will lead to financial consolidation, or stabilisation of public finances. I have no objection to the behaviour of political parties, because I know that each party looks at this problem as to whether it is in power or in opposition. I just want to remind you, this economic crisis is not the property of this government. It's a problem and a whole society crisis. This is a crisis for everyone and we can't get out of it unless there are all the factors involved in this society. Will we and who will support these structural reforms to what extent? Who and to what extent will use it for their political and party purposes? That's why I think this issue is much more serious and deeper than inter-party bickering and outwitting. This is the issue that is at the level of resolving Serbia's political problems and therefore needs to be approached very responsibly. This government did not run away from problems and close its eyes to problems. Remember I said in my exposé that Serbia is the country that had the most unstable course in the region, that the country that had the lowest salaries and pensions in the region, that the country that had the highest inflation rate in the region, is the country that has the highest unemployment rate in the region. It didn't happen now. It's a process that lasts. No one's running away from responsibility. If we can't live better, or citizens if they can't live better, they deserve a fairer system of distribution of social wealth. That is why, when we talk about these topics, I think we need to find a balance between savings, primarily reducing unnecessary costs of administration, public administration, public enterprises, reforming public enterprises and the need to have basic elements of social justice, and this means that the burden cannot be transferred to the poorest and on the other hand, investment in development and incentives and foreign and domestic investment. (President: Time.) Nobody's a criminal if he's in private business. It is every criminal who breaks the law and there needs to make a clear distinction. Our goal is to encourage development, to encourage business, not to destroy it. In that sense, I really call, independently of this debate here, to try to unite all the ideas that exist if they are good. You know we've also formed the National Council for Economic Recovery and we'll accept any idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17917	Thank you. The People's MP Branimir Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17918	Thank you. Mr Dacicu, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever we talk about the situation in the economy, it is simply impossible to circumvent the issues of new investment. There is no country today that struggles with its strength to convince investors that they should invest in their countries, but on the other hand, investors of a world-wide crisis and high risks have a great opportunity to choose and condition. If we analyze the previous years and decades, where the most invested and invested in our country, certainly most of these investments around Corridor 10 are with small exceptions. I must say, I come from western Serbia, from the Zlatibor County, from Uzic. Neither the town of Užica, nor the municipalities in our western Serbia environment, can boast that they had some serious investments in the past decades. One of the most serious reasons is precisely bad traffic infrastructure, which Mr Ilic was already talking about. We look forward to and encourage the fact that this government has found opportunities to deal seriously with the problem of building Corridor 11. Corridor 11, or the most famous highway from Belgrade to the southern Adriatic, is not only the shortest distance between Belgrade and the southern Adriatic, nor the shortest distance between the Adriatic ports, the Danube port and the rest of the Pan-European corridors. First of all, Corridor 11 is a question of fate, a question of opportunity, and I will not exaggerate if I say it is a question to be or not to be for more than four million citizens southeast of Belgrade. Once again I say, we are satisfied and encouraged by the answers of Mr Ilic about all the details of the work on Corridor 11. My question is an additional question of what was said by a respected colleague from the NS. You, Mr. Ilic, spoke about the part of the highway from Belgrade to Požega and about the shares from Obrenovac to Belgrade and from Preljina to Požega, which will be made from the concession. We are interested, especially from Užica and Zlatibor County, what is the idea of continuing from Požega to the southern Adriatic? What's the option? Is it still in the process of considering options for building a semi-road from Požega, via Užica, through the Kotroman border crossing and Visegrad towards Republika Srpska? Is there something going on here? The entire Western Serbia believes it would in some way be damaged if it were excluded from passing at least half-way to Uzic. That's what we're interested in, if you can tell us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17919	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17920	Dear People's MP, I was talking about Corridor 11 and the work to Požega, which is now being negotiated and it has passed the government and it has been approved to enter the concession part of the construction from Preljina to Požega and self-financing from the toll collection on the credited shares. The study has shown that it will be done very quickly. It is true that an independent task force, which is made of experts, has been formed to analyze both studies. Two variants of the highway to Bolar were made. The first version of the highway to Boljer is via Zlatibor, Zlatar and Novi Varoša, and the second variant is via Arilja, Ivanjica to Bolar and Duga Poljana. The first one is 40km long and costs about 600m euros. There's a lot of tunnels and it's slower to build because the tunnel goes into the next tunnel. The second variant is cheaper and shorter 40 kilometers. But this government, in its agreements on all this, no matter what report it will be, which variant will come into force, to Užic or Zlatibor, where the road to Visegrad is being separated, has made the project documentation for the highway. So, Užice, the Goldibors end up getting the highway safely within Goroblje and heading for Užica. That's why we in Užica started that tour around Užica, which fits into this project, to get traffic out of Užica, and that heavy traffic does not go through a city that is simply in traffic congestion towards Drina, Podrinj and Republika Srpska. So, the highway to Zlatibor where it's headed for Visegrad and Montenegro is 100%, and the rest we'll see. So you get to enjoy the safe end of the highway, because that variant, and then one of the lanes will go towards Visegrad, and the other tape will work later when needs are. It's an extremely big traffic trip to Zlatibor, and that's 100 percent for now. So that's what's going to work. I'd just like to ask you not to speak such bad words at such gatherings. Many investors are with us now. Before signing the contract and about the Ships, around Kargo Center, what Minister Knezevic was talking about, about four distribution centres that are necessary for agriculture. Don't say words like that. I was in three governments, and I always listen -- Serbia will go bankrupt. Well, people, don't say that, we're negotiating these days, we're talking, don't say now -- we're bankrupt. We didn't go bankrupt. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. Good for now. If we didn't go bankrupt in the last government, don't say that this government is bankrupt. Don't, and please, let's do some analysis anyway. It is difficult, but it's always been difficult. It was also in the past government. We're fighting through these investments, through this investment cycle that's being run. So we have to force ourselves to invest what people on the outside want to invest. Look, here's Mr. Markovic talking here about investments in Jagodina. I know that when people come, here yesterday we were in central Serbia, Mrs. Mihajlović, Goran Knezevic and I, everyone who comes to invest is looking for a highway. They say, "If you don't have a highway, there's no talking further." Here's what Fiat asked for when he came to Kragujevac. Did we start making highways to Kragujevac, which we liked? People say we won't work with you unless you have a freeway. So we're opening up new areas, new investments and, of course, through this building that's going to be under way. So please don't put on any hard words like this, we come down here and we die and say, "Serbia is bankrupt." We didn't go bankrupt. We are a people who want to work, to fight. If he could do better, he could. So the funds can be arranged better, transferred to someone else, yes. But we're all here to make a deal. Don't, support us and the position and opposition, because tomorrow we'll get into a situation where someone else will be in power, so I can't attack right now as soon as it comes, we say - you're bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17921	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17922	I know, Mr. Ilic, you told me that I said that Serbia would go bankrupt. Of course. I know he won't, and I'm sure of it. I would ask another question, since railway corridor 11 is no less important for Western Serbia, can you tell us, regardless of what is not your portfolio at the moment, when the serious reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway line will begin, since this assembly adopted and ratified the Russian loan from the Russian Federation for investment in rail transport. There is great interest in the economy southwest of Belgrade for the use of rail traffic, of course, at the time when railways can provide optimal conditions, an optimal offer, and all of those former traditional rail traffic users would return to rail traffic. It may be interesting to know that in the last four months alone last year, over 40,000 Fiat's foreign car was transported by Belgrade-Bar track to Bar. We're interested in when this serious reconstruction will take place that's been waiting over 35 years? When will the construction of the first stage of Belgrade's railway node begin, what did the MPs also give consent to? These are all topics directly related to the economic situation in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17923	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17924	Since I was Minister of Railways in two mandates and I know the problem extremely well, Europe has made one condition for us, that the European Corridor of Belgrade-Bar and part of the corridor through Vojvodina must be reconstructed, traffic speeded up, and we do so. We are glad that now this Russian loan has come and is operational and can be implemented immediately. That loan was expected for a considerable amount of time. In previous governments, we have done reconstructions of the railway near Valjev, but this part of Valjevo towards Zlatibor, according to the Prepolje, we have to do, change the thresholds, speed up traffic, expand the tunnels, which is extremely expensive, so that we can withstand this European traffic. It is a combined traffic that is intended to merge rivers, railways, seas, etc., in order for container traffic to go, we need all the tunnels towards Bar to bring into a state like we did in the Sistice ravine, in order to maintain traffic at that European level. Those papers will begin to work very quickly. They're making preparations, the project documentation's ready, everything's ready, and it's going to start very soon. The entire strategy for the development of Serbian traffic is concentrated, rail and roadway towards Bar, which is our development strategy and the closest way for Southeast Europe to fully connect with corridors 10 and 11, means to connect and exit to the port of Bar. That's why the Bar port is strategic for us, and that is why I hope there will be quick negotiations with Montenegro where we want to find some modus to tie the port of Bar to us. There is a great interest in individual companies to help build corridors from Bolar to Bar to put all of this into operation. You know that at the moment the port of Bar has one job, which is to export Fiat's vehicles, and that's the biggest job in the port of Bar. It works extremely well at this point. There's an interest in getting this thing together, perfecting and developing. That's why we're going to be working next to the road corridor to construct the railway corridor and to restructure, alter the thresholds by signalling, expand the tunnel into the correct state and connect with the maritime roads. It's the interest of all of Southeast Europe. You must know that we have had extraordinary negotiations with Italy which is interested, because their raw materials base at this point is the largest in Romania, their companies are located in Romania and are creating whole platforms that transfer traffic from Bar to Bari, freight road and rail. It's our interest to do so that we can connect it all into one whole. That's why by building this whole thing we're starting to pull all of Southeast Europe off to seaways. You know that the location bar is much more suitable than Split and Ploč and you know that it is closer to the Mediterranean. It's a much deeper gauze and it doesn't have to be overloaded, which is why we're getting these loans and these credits to make it happen because it's going to be extremely profitable. I'm sorry Minister Mrkonjic isn't here, he would certainly give some more information, but that's what he's working on intensively. They are also looking for an electric pull through Serbia in the corridors and to address the issue of electricity where it is not finished on the other parts and connections of Corridor 10, and that is all within the EU system. If we're going to stay in the system, that's why we're putting a lot of money into it. Serbia now needs 1,000 wagons to serve that traffic required of it on the railways, as well as for road shipping.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17925	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17926	The Honorable chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, is having a hard time living in Serbia. On the grey roads in Serbia, we look at empty factories, empty stables and over a million acres of a parked country. That picture is a little different from the picture we're hearing about today at this session, from the MPs of the ruling parties and from you. For the first four months of this year, more suicides took place in Belgrade than all last year. In Belgrade, there have been many murders of which 17 mobsters, innocents have been injured in these accounts, not to mention what has been going on in Vranj, Nis in recent months. Serbia is a country where people slowly lose faith that the situation can change and improve in due course. Young people continue to leave the country and Serbia is empty. It's a situation and it's a reality. Serbian citizens live on the site of electoral expectations, false promises, betrayed by lies translated into stories of 300,000 new jobs, 1,000 euros, Mercedes, Boing, inexhaustible European funds, bids and dates. We all travel and watch. As Serbia's external debt rises by 140 euros and more per second, public debt participation in GDP is over 56%. The debt has been increased by 4.2 billion euros and around 32% of all employees in the public sector, while the rate in Europe is between 10% and 18%. We're record guys after unemployment. Almost 10,000 of our citizens are out of work every month. Inflation is large, larger than the projected rate. Profits are reduced, and prices are wild. The average earnings for the January-March period are actually lower by 5.4% this year alone. It is nominally larger, but it's actually smaller. The planned budget deficit will be doubled from 3.5% to 7% according to the IMF's estimate and slightly lower according to the Fiscal Council's assessment. As an opposition in this assembly, we're very concerned about where this ship is going and is it going anywhere? If measures are not taken urgently, I would say, the guillotine of expenditure, not only regulations, Serbia will slide towards bankruptcy and there will be no pensions or wages, investments, social assistance. The fact is that you inherited a hole in the budget, a large debt and deficit, a double-digit inflation, but this can't be an excuse not to do anything, amnesty, an alibi for unhappiness and irresponsibility for serious reforms. Serbia does not meet the world's economic crisis for the first time. It was similar in 1934, when Knez Pavle gave the term of office of Finance Minister Milan Stojadinovic, who used support to take Serbia out of the crisis decisively. He took four steps – he stabilized the course. That's when the dinar was the only way to convert the whole world, not just to two exchange offices in Prague, but to the whole world... (President: Time.) ) Reduces interest rates, postpones credit payments to farmers and invests in public works. Serbia has come out of crisis and is beginning to develop. (President: Time, Mr. Michael. You've all allowed everyone to extend a little bit. I'll be done in 30 seconds. (Chairman: Don't, please.) If I'm gonna extend your time, I'm gonna have to give it to the rest of you. ) You must, as the most responsible, show willingness and determination to change something in Serbia. I'm going to ask you three specific questions... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17927	Mr. Michael, I can't extend your time. If I'm gonna extend your time, I'm gonna have to give it to the others. Proceed to the drug part and finish. You have three minutes right, and after you answer, you can use two more minutes. Mr. Michael, please sign up because I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17928	Mr. Chairman, Parliament Speaker Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, allowed the Prime Minister and Mr. Borko Stefanovic in the first part of the cabinet to overstep their time. That's what everyone else used. Please leave me 30 seconds to ask three questions from one sentence at a time. You can take that away from me from the other part of the two minutes I have. (President: Please listen to me now. I've allowed you, you've exceeded 25 seconds of the time allowed. So, I wasn't that rigorous and that I interrupted you in a second. Please, you can use that later, those two minutes, to ask questions. Let's not be formalists, ask those three questions as soon as possible, to take advantage of your time. Here you go. I'd just like three questions in the shortest. Three sentences. I'd be done by now. I ask three short questions to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr Dinkic. Will pensions and salaries be frozen, as the Fiscal Council and the IMF predict? Will social contributions be reduced, in line with budget expenditure cuts? Will there be rationalisation in the public sector and in the state administration?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17929	Does anyone want to give an answer? The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17930	Surely there will be no reduction in social giving, for the poorest cannot be spared. As for wages and pensions in the public sector, the next few days we will have an analysis of the overall budget and we will come out with concrete measures. I can only tell you what the Fiscal Council has suggested. The fiscal council suggested that the indexation be skipped in October. Otherwise, the budget planned an increase of only 0.5%, so you know what is possible, and then next year it goes with slower growth than what the current formula in the Budget System Law would allow. We have to take a stand on that. I think the way to think of the Fiscal Council is correct, but we need to talk about it in the next seven days and reach a consensus and then let you know about it. What's absolutely certain is that pensions will not be reduced, but what we have to do, as responsible people, is to set such a budget and such a pace of their future increase over the next year and a half, which will be fair, realistic and that we can do it. We don't have anything to say that we can make something bigger than we can, so we can't do it. What does that mean? No pension cuts. This will not even be discussed, but the degree and dynamics of their increases will depend on the overall state of society and the balance sheet options. We'll talk about it. There are more options. Once we reach a consensus on this, we will go to parliament here. I'll also come up with the government's name with a draft budget rebalance and when we'll open a debate about it. I believe that we will meet these measures before, both you and the public. We must be entering the Assembly when there's budget rebalance. He'll be in the next month and a half, as I've already suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17931	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Just take care of the weather. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17932	I expect only an answer to the question – will there be a rationalisation of the public sector? You'll probably answer that in a second call. Now I would just read a copy of the exposé, which we heard here about ten months ago: "Our biggest and most difficult problem facing Serbia is the demographic issue, stopping the biological decline and extinction of the nation, creating conditions for defeating the people's life force. Rehabilitation of the population can be the result of only coordinated activities in creating all the preconditions to encourage the strengthening of birth, from stimulating and giving birth to more children in families, through helping married couples who need out-of-body fertilisation, greater assistance to pregnant women and maternity women, greater social care for children, the elimination of taxes and the restriction of trade margins for baby equipment." The tax on baby equipment last year, as part of anti-crisis measures, was raised and levelled with a rate of 20% for children, so that it gave up what was provided for in the exposé. I want to ask here if and if the funds for young couples who are supposed to build families, are they going to be different sexes? Are the funds provided for those people who want to stay here and work so that Serbia doesn't empty out? Are there any funds in the budget? Does the government even have a plan and strategy to improve demographic imagery in Serbia? That was a lot of words and it was one of the most important things in the exposé. Is it planned to abolish the baby's equipment tax? That's what we talked about when VAT changes were adopted, and that's one important question that needs to be discussed here as well. I also want to get an answer to the question – whether there will be rationalisation in the public sector, given that the public sector employs more than 31%, almost 32% of people and a good part of the funds generates, accumulates a large part of the expenditure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17933	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17934	It is certainly that, in total view of the public sector, there will be rationalisation. The public sector involves, not only public services, not only administration, but so on. State and public enterprises. When we look at it all together, in general, it's clear that it has to be rationalized. It's clear with the company. If the company has losses and if the loss is caused by excess employees, there is no dilemma that it is better to survive the company with an optimal number of employees than to fail all. It's an example of Galenics. It's an example of JAT. It is absolutely impossible with the current number of employees of these two companies to be profitable. There's still cases like that. There are probably more administrations in Resavica mines, not miners, but administrations. Also restructure companies, those companies that can't survive because of their surplus employees, which they could. If this is to be rationalized, we need to provide money for the social programme and optimise the number of employees. As for public services, each minister will make a proposal for his sector. What is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is that we must also take care of the mass of wages. If a sector, such as health care or education, has a plan to implement certain reforms in its sector, whether it is funding per student's head regardless of what individual representatives of education think, because it is simply the minister of education who needs to determine the strategy, or the captainship in health care, that should be seen. If there are estimated to be extra employees, and these must be assessed by the resolution ministers, then the salary mass will be available in any case. If the number of people who work here is reduced, others can grow wages and more than what is the growth of the pay mass itself. So, there can't be any early birds. I'm betting that everyone gets paid according to the results of their work, according to the pawning. As far as restricting employment in the public sector is concerned, it will certainly be introduced, especially in the administration. We're working out measurements. We'll establish a register of all state sector employees during June. You can think that it hasn't existed in Serbia for years and we'll put a dam on further employment, or if some natural route goes into retirement, it can be replaced and replaced with young people who need to get a job. But we have to have boundaries that we can't cross in total. So what is certain is that it must be saved in the public sector and it must be stimulated by the economy, energy, agriculture. We must encourage development and what will be the most difficult in the coming period, not just for us in the government, but for the whole society, is how to find the right balance between saving in the public sector and encouraging development that will contribute to better living in the future. He can't live better if there's no development.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17935	The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17936	I don't understand what kind of impulses it is to throw when someone answers the word. Are you DS or what you are? I don't understand. If you don't want anyone to answer a word you don't like, then tell them no one's coming here to talk to you. You asked us to come. If you're looking for it, then don't react like that. I called about Mr. Michael. I don't know where you got that. There has never been more trust in the government, in all public opinion studies, in the last 10 or 15 years. There's never been more confidence that it'll get better. Look at the public opinion research. On the other hand, demographics certainly have to be a priority, but in conditions where there is an economic crisis and a cutting of public spending, you can't have both in the same way. In the end, since I've been listening to both DS and DSS about what I should do, I'd just like to ask you -- when you know what you should do, why didn't you do it when you've been in power for the last 10 years, but you've been waiting for someone else to come? I've been with each other and I know well that each of you watched how it would affect the political rating. This government doesn't see how that's gonna affect the ratings. We've got problems to solve. We don't call them problems. This is the reality in which Serbia lives and we have to move forward. These are the challenges for this government. So, since the DSS has been talking about a feasibility study in time, where your parole is on billboards – it's doable, you've been looking forward to it... People's MPs are getting out of place. That was 2005. (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. If you need to change your mind periodically, I don't know. You've changed your mind, and it's okay. You brought Milosevic down with a story about Europe, and now you're against the EU. It's all legitimate. Also, as Milosevic's successor, I lead the EU government. It's life. It's politics. I'm happy because I've changed for the better, and you think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17937	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17938	Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I will say that we can fully agree on the conclusion that stories about this in a mandate that and whose governments have been worse in the past period will not bring anything new to Serbia today. But we also cannot agree with the conclusion that this government of the Republic of Serbia has paid too little attention to the economy, that it has given too little and insufficient attention to economic issues in Serbia. It is clear from the government's results over the past year that one of the main tasks of the government of the Republic of Serbia is exactly new jobs. To get to new jobs it is important to have investments, foreign investments. To have foreign investment and investment in Serbia, it is important that there is political stability and political continuity in Serbia and it is important that Serbia has, I would say, both a powerful and strong international position. One of the results of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia over the past year is that a significantly improved image of Serbia is in the world. The question I want to ask is to you, Mr. Dacic, and as far as your visit to the United States is concerned, I'd say an economic-political mission you had in the United States. During your visit, you spoke with representatives of highly significant Intel companies, Google, Microsoft. Some of these companies are present in Serbia today and some are not. My question is very specific, and Mr Dinkic also spoke about it in one of the exhibitions. Is it possible in 2013 for Serbia, in the right sense, when it comes to foreign investment, to be the year of information and communication technologies, and what does this mean specifically for Serbia and Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17939	The word has Prime Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17940	A visit organised was part of a promise made by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton during a visit to Belgrade, that the State Department would help organise such a visit. I would leave aside political talks with US Vice President Beyden and Deputy Secretary of State Burns, who were very positive and which point to some possible new foundations of partnership with the United States. It was also a very important visit in economic terms. Why? Because the IT sector in the United States is one of the vital, one of the carrying sectors of industrial and general social development in the United States. It is little known that we too have the IT sector which may have been the easiest to go through and through the economic crisis. It's a sector that records growth. We're saying we're the biggest raspberries exporters. Exporting software from Serbia last year was twice as big as exporting raspberries. Those who finish schools in this area don't wait long for work. I think Serbia's perspective, among other things, is not the only one, of course, in the IT sector. That is why Serbia should do everything to attract these companies to work in Serbia. I expect that in the second half of the year, Microsoft CEO Steve Balmer will visit Serbia. Also, I talked to Intel, it's a base company in the field of information technologies, with IBM, they have 430,000 workers. We talked to Apple, Google, Pay Pal, Eagle, Juliet Packard, etc. There's a possibility of investment in this area. I'd just like to say that this isn't a word, it's not a central question whether or not we're going to use their software legally now. Here we were talking about how to participate in the creation of hardware and software and how to hire young experts. If this is not added to the formation, i.e. the construction of a nano centre in Serbia, which is working together with the EU, it is certain that the prospects in this area are quite good. We also have feedback. What I am convinced is that some of these companies will very soon, not only come to Serbia, because some of them are there, but will work seriously on these projects. In many of these companies, our people, our origins, are located in the leading places. We are interested in having Serbia present on this world market. Of course, there is also important that we do everything on our part, which means, now Minister Obradovic has arrived, to educate experts in the area. If I leave him time so you don't complain, I'll stop here, so let him continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17941	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to tell you that as a form of direct assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the Information Technology Sector, the government adopted decisions a few days ago, namely the Decision on the total number of budgetary students at all levels of higher education in school 2013/2014. A year. This year, the government will fund 36,983 students in the first year of primary studies, vocational studies and master studies. And the number for 965 students is higher than last year and includes students at those colleges that have IT programmes. So, literally all the universities in Serbia from Novi Sad to Kosovo Mitrovica have proposed an appropriate number of students. The government has accepted their proposals and will be subject to funding, and in the short term when it comes to master studies and in the long term when it comes to basic and professional studies. Finally, not only did the president mention, in the past few days, my colleague Mihajlovic and I have had a promotion of the project, which we are working together with EU funds. We got permission to open a science and technology park on Stardust. It will be a direct support to the Information Technology Sector because the sector will settle the area of 14.5 m2. This space on Starar will be available for research in this sector to all those companies that invest in research and future development. We expect this to be significant for the Republic of Serbia. Last year I heard from colleagues, the Minister of Science of the People's Republic of China Van Gang, that scientific and technological parks participated with 12.50% in creating a social gross product in the People's Republic of China. It just says how great it is for development, for innovation, for patents and for the development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17943	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17944	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Since we have touched on the subject of education, the central theme is the economic situation, so I would have one question for the Minister of Education and Education. The question is very specific. Despite the economic situation in which Serbia is located – what is it that the Ministry of Education, the resolution ministry is currently doing and working to improve the education system in Serbia, starting from pre-school to higher education in Serbia? In this context, bearing in mind how small funds are allocated to the Ministry of Education and Education, bearing in mind the difficult economic situation in Serbia, how realistic are the demands of the education union at the moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17945	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17946	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I have been absent from this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the past hour because I was in another space, where a session of the parent committee, the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, or the Information Society is held. On the agenda of the committee is a report on the ministry's work in January-March 2013. Without wanting to repeat myself, since I spoke very closely there, but again with the need to answer this question from my colleagues Milicevic, I must tell you that in the past few months we have had very serious activities within the Ministry of Education and Science and that among the most important jobs that we have done, despite the difficult economic situation, education and science are the most important things for us, in addition to normative activities, and otherwise when it comes to normative activities, I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will next week adopt proposals for several laws on basic education, secondary education, adult education, amendments and additions to the Law on student and student standards and some other laws that are from the fields of science, i.e. We'll discuss it in June of this year. So we're going to talk a lot more about education, but among those things that had this kind of specificity, as content of ours, we had a little graduation, we had a deal with school administrations about the number of departments which is a major problem because of the demographic situation in Serbia. This year, in the first grade of high school, we have about 7,000 students less than last year's school year. We've got about 1,500 students down in the first grade of primary school. Of course, we adopted these quotas that were resolved and we met with the highest demands of universities and colleges. I think those are the most important things we've done. I'm talking about this because we have a limiting factor. It's an economic situation. The limiting factor is also a demographic situation. The limiting factor is that, in relation to the situation found, we have to solve a number of problems and improve the quality of education, increase efficiency, and of course make availability as high as possible. I think that's where we got the results, but that's for sure what we'll be talking about when we talk about these laws in a few weeks. When it comes to union demands, I personally think that the primary request of unions, representative unions of education, is not what has been formally delivered to the ministry, but rather the desire to improve the material position, to increase the isolation for education, and that is something that is logical and that we all in the government support, because each of us thinks that salaries should be higher and that education and science should be greater, but we must objectively take care of the economic opportunities of the Republic of Serbia and what is possible with the money that exists in the register to be resolved. Why did I mention this? There are three demands. One limit is the number of students for a maximum of 25 in the department, the suspension of the application of the system of funding per student by 2020 and the introduction of compulsory secondary education. If we know that the introduction of secondary education is about constitutional changes, and we also suggested it in the strategy that was adopted and which was twice read in this home, then you know that it's a knock on the open door, because we'll adopt it when the Constitution changes. If it's about limiting the number of students to a maximum of 25, knock on the door again, because it's a strategic goal by 2020. Now, literally now, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have an average, believe it or not, of 20.2 students in the primary and secondary school class, with her on a level of 24.4, and at a level of 19.8. The problem is that in some major city centres due to the mechanical inflow of the population, there are an objectively higher number of students compared to the figures mentioned and exiting this request is not possible, for the simple reason why we do not have enough space. This would raise the question of hiring new profiles and would objectively raise a number of new issues. When it comes to postponing the application of the financing system, I must tell you that the 2009 National Assembly passed a law that says it will since 2014/2015. I am stressing 2014/2015 not now this school year, but since the next school year that a system of funding will be applied per student's head, and that this school year in 16 municipalities, together with the Ministry of Finance, will conduct a test of the funding model. We've got four formulas, we've chosen 16 municipalities, and that's what we're going to do. There's no need to worry about someone being denied. Since they're very different criteria, we want through these four formulas to get to one in general. I have to say, since I've said it before, but it's kind of loud, that my colleague Dinkic and I have spoken to the unions and I, as Minister of Education, said that this funding plan... (President: Time, Mr. Minister. Please, just one more sentence. ... that this plan of funding per student's head will not be applied unless we provide money for an economic and social programme, but every bid at this point is premature, because it has yet to be applied the formula, so we will see if and how much any excess employees will be in relation to the demographic situation. I say four formulas are correct. We've taken a lot of factors to create that formula that will exactly give an answer to how much money it takes to fund education, and then we'll see what the Republic pays for, and what local self-government pays for, everything we want to make the system sustainable and make it as efficient and as quality as possible through that sustainable system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17947	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17948	President of the Government, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow Members of Parliament, today we have had the opportunity to objectively get very little room to ask a lot of questions that burden our economic and social situation. We didn't get adequate answers. Of course, we as DS are very dissatisfied with both the economic and social situation in the country, but also dissatisfied with the fact that this government is definitely, except I don't know on what grounds based untruths and attacks on the opposition are trying to conceal its incompetence. No one's stopping you from talking to us here with whatever tone you want, but it's also the fact that no one's throwing it to you. If MPs talk to each other, that doesn't mean they're getting to you. I think it would be nice, as in Topoli, on Oplenco, you've made a good turn to people, regardless of their opposition, so can the MPs. We're no worse than the people who waited for you there. What is certain is that the budget deficit of 78 billion dinars, that foreign investment is minimal, something over 100m euros, that there is nothing of the 10 billion euros promised per year, that public enterprises are part of it, that there is no non-party employment, that wages and pensions have fallen and that it will still fall, unfortunately, and it is not a question of whether it is freezing, but how to stop further decline, that we have dropped external trade, especially in agricultural products, which you have admitted, and I am glad to see it. As far as the budget deficit is concerned, the Democratic Party is proposing, as we have foreseen in our programme, the elimination of irrational costs, which you will have to do, regardless of what is unpopular, the cutting of the administration, the completely unnecessary donations, the donation from the budget to losers, public enterprises and local self-government, where you are in power, the suppression of the grey economy and the increase of income from customs duties, which requires reform and strengthening of the inspection and income management sectors, the reduction of subsidies I have already said, the introduction of paying classes in the public sector, the new Law on financing of local self-government and AP Vojvodina, the transition to the programme budget, the increase of revenues through greater coverage due to lower tax burdens and better control. You don't have a chance, your inspectors count on your fingers, corruption is general, and it's absolutely impossible to stop. People only talk less about it, and more and more are being enslaved, unfortunately. As far as public debt is concerned, we propose to increase economic activity through the introduction of more foreign investment, but also through privatisation funds, such as Al Dahra, which should be immediately directed towards repayment of debts, the reduction of deficits and the ban on the use of debt to pay public expenditure, but exclusively for long-term investment in infrastructure, which you do not do. (President: Please ask a question, if you have, because time is up. ) So we ask if the measures we propose, concerning the protection of the standard of living, are acceptable to this government? Are they ready to talk about them and are they ready to listen to the rest of the opposition on these issues that we've listed? Are they ready to do something about investing in the employment and development of family companies, given the minimal separation and reduction of burdens... (President: Your time is up. You can ask more questions later. All right, but I have my time and I have to ask a question. (President: No, I have to respect the Rules of Procedure, I gave you 43 seconds over time. ) In any case, we believe, and I end here, that these issues require much clearer, more precisely, on the profession of based answers, much broader dialogue with both trade unions and professional associations, but also with opposition. So we don't get into... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17949	Please, you're in the fifth minute, I really can't allow it anymore. Then use the other two minutes. Do any of the government officials want a word? The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17950	As I have said many times and proved in practice, all the measures that should be applied should be checked by those who participate in these processes. That is why very important consultations with representatives of the economy, economic science, with representatives of financial institutions, with trade unions, etc. We're in charge of this dialogue. Don't think there's a unique view of what needs to be done. There are very different and conflicting views, because interests are opposed. We couldn't agree, or trade unions and employers couldn't agree on the lowest labour price, because they were opposed to interest. Absolutely no one is against it, and I welcome every party's initiative, every single person to help in this situation. All these measures, all these suggestions will certainly be considered and these questions will be dealt with very seriously in the next period. As far as possible, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the parliamentary group, the political parties should also participate in this, and we have nothing against it. Since there are a lot of measures here that you have listed, and since you have raised a concrete question – are we ready to carry them out, I will answer you with the opposite question. Why weren't you ready to execute them and why didn't you execute them? When you answer that question, I will answer your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17951	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17952	Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately for you, but unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia, the economic indicators of the work of the previous government are better than the economic indicators of your government's work. You can say whatever you want here, but the numbers deny you. So my question is this, since you haven't answered, besides that there is communication, have you spoken to Mr Milan Knezevic of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurs, since Mr. Knezevic presents fragrant data? My question is, how are you going to get this data back to normal, or are you going to reduce these terrible numbers that Mr. Knezevic describes? He says that in March 97,000 companies paid taxes and contributions but not salaries, out of which 14,000 companies only paid salaries, and 7,000 paid neither. The economy owes more than 22 billion euros and in the first two months 6,800 trade shops were closed, and only around 5,000 opened, which is 1,800 stores less. In the first quarter, as many as 30,000 workers were out of work with a trend to keep it going, etc. That's what we've said so many times. Last year we lost 180,000 jobs, and we hired 167,000, and no one ever ran an analysis of our bureaucracy, or of our apparatus, or of our inspection services, or of our employment services, or of why we gave so much money in that service, and nothing more significant changed. Why did we give so much in tourism, and our tourism is falling? That's my question too. That's millions of euros, Mr. Dacic. So you're saying we're ready. All right, tell me how you're gonna be specific and what you're gonna cut off from your expenses, since you said in your exposé there's no freezing of wages and pensions. You mentioned that more than once publicly and recently. There seems to be some disagreement in the government. It's important to us that you explain it very carefully once and for all, because we won't have a chance to answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17953	The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17954	I will only take a minute or two, and later Minister Dinkic will answer what you specifically asked. Economic indicator? Economic indicators were such that the government of Vojislav Kostunica was twice as successful as the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Was that so? When the government of Mirko Cvetkovic was formed, there was an economic crisis, of course, not due to the formation of the government. If you're going to talk about economic indicators, do you know how many people have been fired since 2000 until today and lost their jobs, so you're saying that before 2000 it was better? But we are already entering political debates. I have no reason to compromise on a political level, on a professional basis, please, if anyone has a proposal, I just don't know, if they're so brilliant that you haven't, for the past 10 years, the 13 years you've proposed in power, applied them. There was Mr Djelic, he was Minister of Finance, he was Deputy Prime Minister, he had time to propose all this. I took part in meetings where the former president, the president of the Republic, is the president of the party, where we discussed the economic situation. The economic situation, unfortunately, is not good and it is a challenge for us. Let's do everything we can, but you had the chance to do it, you had the chance, you didn't take the chance. Wait for the next chance, if you welcome her in terms of the political future, but it's the people who give the grade how it works. I really can't appreciate what the people he thinks about right now, but when you talk about this Topoli and Oplenco, I haven't seen any of you there, and you brought Alexander Karadjordjevic to Serbia, you gave him the White Court, you brought him back as the Crown Prince. Why? Because then you needed to bring Milosevic down. This government has done a reconciliation, a national reconciliation, but what happened there, you're not going to look forward to nationalistics and extremist groups using it as they did at the time of the previous government. It is a disgrace to Serbia, not an example of how someone should function. There I called for unity and reconciliation, which I am the heir to the communists, who did not allow Karadzic to return, I was formed, at the head of the government, who formed a committee for the return of their remains. I did mine for national reconciliation. If someone doesn't want a national reconciliation of his problem. But it's already past. We look to the future. I invite you, since I asked Minister Dinkic, but I don't think there's any time and I don't have any need, I'd just ask that all the suggestions you have be kept on the basis of political declarations. If there are suggestions, if there are ideas, no problem is that we talk about it, let's see what it is that can be suggested, what is it that can be rationalized? It's not the subject we're talking about for the first time. We had a lot of ideas on how to do that that wasn't realized in the end. It is therefore important that there is a national consensus on the need to focus on solutions to the next difficult problem, which is an economic situation. I hope the time has come when it will be our main political activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17955	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17956	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the topic we did not talk about today -- the Belgrade city budget. The ideal projects of Dragan Gilas have devastated the city's budget, the budget of all citizens of Belgrade. I have to admit that bridge on Ada is a nice bridge, but that man can't tell us how much that bridge costs. How much is access to traffic? Did it have to be so expensive? Could Gilas' pride have been cheaper? Dragan Gilas is calling for academics. What about the rest of the expert public? What about prominent professors of the Architectural - Construction Faculty who pointed out that this was a huge stock for both the city's budget and projected a solution to the 60 million dinar bridge? Professor Budjevac's proposal from Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering, he also supported the Union of construction engineers and technicians of Serbia? At the same time, Minister Mrkonjic was not on the side of Dragan Dilas, and he presented the weakness of this solution. The bridge over Ade is the rudest waste of citizens in Belgrade's recent history. Not only has the most expensive project chosen, but it is a megalomanic solution that does not fit the middle, neither aesthetic, nor according to the function it should perform. The special story is BusPlus. Although Gilas said the city had chosen the lowest bid for a new transport collection system, the real truth is that there was only one because the competition was held under the rules that the government had made by disobeying the Public Procurement Act. Of the 51 companies that bought the competitive documentation, only three have submitted an offer. Of the three envelopes that arrived at the competition, one contained all the necessary documentation and this was the consortium of three KENTKART companies based in Istanbul, Lanus and Apex Solution technologists from Belgrade. The competition for a very lucrative, simultaneously expensive ticket collection job in public city transport, Belgrade, has been held by the rules it has made itself. Now, are we going to hear from Dragan Gilas how much this bridge really costs without that anger and without finding out – I don't agree with the question, but the answer is why something signed on 120 should now be paid 300, 600m euros or whatever is already bid and all that over expensive loans. Belgrade water and sewerage, only for renting eight trucks and trackeds, paid half a million euros. To rent and buy new 575 billion euros. These were findings.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17957	Time, time, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17958	Just give me time to ask a question. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17959	Please wait. We'll make a deal, we need to hear each other out. So, please, the time you had at your disposal has been spent. Please, the time you've had at your disposal has been spent, as soon as possible ask a question. Now sign up again so someone can answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17960	So, a question for the government -- when will it be examined how the funds from Belgrade's budget have been spent and who will be responsible for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17961	Does anyone from the government want to answer? The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17962	What is the fact that any spending of budgets came from the Republic, the provinces or cities and municipalities must be subject to examination in the case of non-transparent, and in particular illegal spending of money. In that sense, no one can be above the law and everyone must have equal treatment before the law. Those who are competent to examine it have several aspects of it. On the one hand, the DRI is checking the procedure. Police are checking the theft, or violation of the law, and the budget inspection can also investigate the intentional use of funds. So whoever it is comes under the arrest of all state institutions. I think if there's any doubt in the public, no matter who it was, no matter what project it was, and no matter what level it happened, it has to be examined because simply the truth is the best cure for everyone. As for the questions previously asked by Mr Stefanovic, and I didn't have time to answer, I would take the opportunity to answer that too. On the one hand, false findings are that the economic parameters are reportedly worse now than during the Mirko Cvetkovic government. That is not true, but we are not proud of it and we are not satisfied, because the data were catastrophic for 2012 and any improvement from this catastrophic situation must be very large to be satisfied, but the fact is that last year in all four quarters, GDP was falling in Serbia and this year it is growing, a modest 2%, and I expect it to be slightly more than 2%. I'm saying we're not satisfied, but the fact is that better growth is 2% than a 2% drop. The second thing, industrial production fell all last year, now it's growing again, modestly 5.2% in the first quarter, but 5.2% of the growth is better than the decline. Inflation has slowed significantly since the start of the new governor's term, and in the first four months, it was only 1.9%, while inflation in the previous period, first of all, until the new governor came into office, reached a level of double-digit. As for foreign trade, it also ended last year with a large current balance of payments deficit. This year that deficit will be one quarter, 25% less. Why? Because exports are growing double-digitally, 22%, and imports are zero and thus reduce rebalancing in the external trade. It's not true that by this size, the number of unemployed has increased, because if you're out in three months, why don't you come out with the data in all four months, because we're already in May. It's true that according to the National Employment Service records, there are six thousand more, not 30,000 more unemployed in the first four months, that's still not good news, but don't tell the truth. Finally, tourism revenues in Serbia have tripled over the last five years and are worth billions of dollars annually and it is not true that tourism is falling. The problem is that some other branches record a decline, such as construction, such as trade. These are the actions where we have to do everything. I think it's a good thing we're all telling the truth, not to paint a pink thing that's not pink, but it can't be exaggerated and concrete suggestions should be made. In the end, when it was already a matter of Belgrade, I must say that I am thinking about the possibility of proposing to pay in the administration, not in the public services, in the administration of reducing, I am talking about the Republic administration, about the province administration, about local administrations. The impact of the 10% reduction in salaries on the annual level gives savings, which unfortunately is only one-fifth of Belgrade's city traffic loss.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17963	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17964	I didn't expect to get a concrete answer to my question now, but I guess in the next period we'll work together to discover how funds from the Belgrade budget have been spent. The treatment of Serbia's economy has started since last year's elections, since the SNS led a coalition now in power with its plans and the implementation of plans. The DS has so sickened Serbia in the past 12 years, it is absolutely impossible to make major moves in the treatment of the economy in less than a year. Verica Barac referred over 70 analyses, objections, objections, suggestions, when it comes to tycoon and government ties and pointed to corruption, but there was no answer. That's the path you've been destroying the Serbian economy. This session should not deal with the previous period since last year's election, we have to go from 2000 to 2000, a time period in which we should look for reasons to collapse the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17965	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17966	Let me add something, not just for Belgrade, but before that, I completely agree with you that we are not talking about the causes today, but about the consequences. The government has simply courageously faced many problems and has begun to address these problems, unlike previous governments, also concerns the Kosovo, or the Brussels Agreement, and the implementation plan. We look forward to the date, but especially what we've encountered, these are the problems in the economy. The budget of Belgrade that you mentioned, I think it is a very important issue, because that budget of Belgrade is an integral part of the entire country's budget and that we do not know what the funds of that budget have been spent on, but I am afraid that the moment the structure of the Belgrade government is changed, that, as when we took over power in the republic, we did not have all the information before, about the amazing things and even the misrepresenting of some data, I believe we will have it for Belgrade. If we know that since 2011, the city has owed almost 60% of its current income, when we put in relation to income and debt, then we as citizens from Belgrade, but also the whole of Serbia, are in a serious economic problem. This mayor's behavior, when we listened to Mr. Ilic, who spoke about the urban plan, spoke of an amazing thing, which is the mayor's haughtiness to change the plan after the debate and right there, to be completely open in those municipalities led by the SNS. I think that some things need to change and I agree with you that in the next period we will certainly do it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17967	The word has Minister Ilic, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17968	I am pleased that the MP has launched a very interesting topic for both Serbia and Belgrade, and that is what there is no agreement between the city authorities and the republican authorities. So no wonder Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was against these projects that were being done. I was against it in time, too, because the same government was in last term in Belgrade and the Republic. The minister was the same, from the same party and the mayor. There's been a conflict of interest. Why? The minister of construction, space and planning has urged the spatial plan to change, to adopt at the Belgrade City Assembly that it is more appropriate for the left-hand coast of Sava to cross the highway from Corridor 11 to join a tour of Belgrade on the Surcinian loop. But the city of Belgrade retained the Ade project, which was envisioned as a strategic project for the development of Belgrade city traffic along the right bank of Sava to enter a highway into Belgrade. All this is done is the right bank of Sava, and the plan act, complete documentation has been transferred to the left bank of Sava. We now return it to the right bank, it takes us three years, and there is the Deep and a series of problems, and we have kept, this government, the left bank of Sava as the only solution that is now feasible, because it is largely done by Corridor 11 highways and bypasses around Belgrade. So how are you going to explain to the citizens of Serbia and the city of Belgrade that, according to the new plan that they adopted in the city, we have to build another bridge upstream on the Sava, and that it was necessary to work on the Danube Bridge at Vinca, of course, that this Chinese bridge is finished and that the complete traffic now crosses for example on the left bank of Sava and completely knocks out the entire system that is now being built in Belgrade and costs billions? How now, we call a tender these days for another bridge upstream towards Surcin, which is projected by both the Space Plan and Belgrade and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17969	Mr. Minister, time, there will be opportunities. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17970	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, MPs, I'm sorry Prime Minister Ivica Dacic left, but I wanted him to hear these things, too. Serbia, we've all heard that here many times today, finds, as the people would say, in a chabra. Because of that, we don't have much time. I remind you that time is irrevocably good for all citizens, not only Serbia but the world, and it does not matter what country it is used in, namely, whether we are productive or not? I could add some facts to this subject, but I don't have much time, because I have more questions, and I want to say next. I suggest that standards be introduced on what time a citizen submits any submission to the administration, the Government, can receive appropriate permits, consent, papers, etc., because what distinguishes us from other countries is that we have been waiting forever here. Sometimes there's more waiting on papers than it takes to build a freezer, for example, I know it very well. That is why I propose that the Government, the President and the Ministers here decide that the administration, and that is the same for local self-government, must in five working days any citizen or investor from abroad, give appropriate permits and consent. What makes us unattractive to foreign investors, you know very well, there have been many words about it, is that in Serbia, unlike some other countries, it is long waiting for these permits, consent, etc. The next question actually concerns this particular topic and I refer it to Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. A few months ago, we talked about IMR rehabilitating with one loan. Mr Dinkic said he had an idea to create a brand-new agricultural machinery industry, but neither of my proposals nor his ideas so far have any signs of anything being done. I had representatives of this union from Rakovica yesterday, and they say 850 workers, who have quite the experience of making workers, could become very attractive on the market, provided they get proper support. Mr. Dinkic, the people with the mockery say they support competition. Foreign investors get financial support, but for domestic investors who want to live, do something, there's no such support. Finally, a question for Mr. Goran Knezevic. Mr. Prince, when a program will be published...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17971	Mr. Trnavciæević, listen to me, he won't be able to answer you, you're better at making a second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17972	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17973	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17974	I fully agree with you, and we have already launched a joint discussion on how to cut first and foremost the number of permits that potential investors need. Let's say, I'm doing it now from an example in the field of energy, if they want to deal with, let's say, using the potential of renewable energy. Of the 27 permits, which are actually 94 permits, this means that 94 counters have to come and on average lost two-two-and-a-half years to such permits. So we launched an initiative with all the ministries, public enterprises that are in charge of it, various institutions, directorates, etc. And we're trying to make a deal with them, and I expect in the summer some final phase of that agreement, that the number should be reduced to the least possible. I spoke between five and seven. I have to admit that all those representatives of these companies, whoever we talked to, are the same wishes, the only question is why has no one in the past brought these people together and set out to do such a thing? I agree with you that time has to be limited, but for some things it's really possible to do, maybe in a day or two, but for some things a little longer than five. Anyway, it's something we're working on, and I appreciate it at all, because this is a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17975	The word has Minister Dinkic. You have three and a half minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17976	About your IMR question. First of all, Serbia needs the agricultural machinery industry, not only tractors, we used to produce both combines and connected machines. But the question is, what is the most optimistic way to do that? The state if you invest money, which is not enough as you know it is not a guarantee that a product will be made that will be able to go to the international market except for the Serbian market, because you also know about the standards of environmental engines, which currently have neither the IMR nor the IMT. To build an engine with an ecological standard, according to EU regulations, people in Rakovica need first support from the Faculty of Engineering, knowledge, and even greater resources and time is at stake. What I think is an optimal scenario for this company, is what was an optimal scenario for the flag from Kragujevac. In the flag, we brought "Fiat" and it's nothing like it used to be. The hale that's been released are now modern and it's all our biggest exporter. I want to tell you that before we even think about the state investing funds that are not enough to do something from the agricultural machinery industry, we're going to give priority to a strategic partner who could enter factories and IMT and IMR, in a way or a joint investment or takeover, but it's about serious companies. I can tell you that we are currently having talks with such a company from two countries. You have heard publicly about the talks with representatives of the Belarusian companies, and I can now tell you that on this topic we have started very serious talks with the very "Fiita". As you know, Fiat has one of the largest agricultural machinery companies in its system called Case New Holland. We'll talk in the next period about the possibility of building a similar project as it was in Kragujevac, to make it in Rakovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17977	Thank you. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17978	Mr. Trnavci, you asked a question about building permits why they are not issued faster for agricultural facilities such as refrigerators, cargo yards, etc. There's one thing that's very problematic. We're issuing permits right now, but the problem is that I've been begging here at the Assembly of Members of Parliament to throw out last time the consent of the neighbours. Wherever you show up with a warm-up, a freezer, a trans-station, none of the environment will give consent. And that's a big problem. If you say the real shelter to that pig, everyone says it's out of the question no one's going to give consent, and so does the administrative procedure that's problematic and we're going in slow. So if he's moving in the distance he needs, if that's defined, but I'd continue what I wanted to say about the license. This is all done, approaching the bridge on Ada, not a single building permit, and all papers have been stopped and criminal charges have been made since inspection. So I can't allow it. Not to be allowed for one loading site, so inspectors go and stop, red tape, and for example, 100 hectares of Belgrade land are allowed to be used to build without a single paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17979	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17980	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer given by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, but I must tell you that for setting up one pillar of trafo from Novi Slankamen to Krcedin, the Indji municipality, it is said in the Elektrodicion of Vojvodina, it takes six months. It's an idiotic thing. This pillar exists only on it is a 160 kilowatt trafo, so that those people can water with electricity, not oil, water, their orchards, etc. Mr. Ilic, about what you said, yesterday I was in Dudovica, and the man tells me that, and I know that when it comes to beekeepers, they made him go around the pig farm, and he's at the end of the village, and he's picking up a pillar, a wall of a meter, up to two and a half feet. He raised something lower and they now, as they say, whimpering about why that pillar is not like they said, two and a half meters, etc. That's what needs to be erased and thrown out. Ecology. So, what do we do then, Switzerland, which in February takes out all the stalls? Smells, I didn't say it smells like a barn, but no one's complaining about it, because it's got a lot of food for those milk cows to eat, to have milk, chocolate, cheese, etc. In the end, the question to Mr. Knezevic. Mr. Knezevic, I've never seen the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the previous one, deal with cooperatives, association of small farmers. According to the December 2012 census, we have 400,000 small households, and good cooperatives can count on the fingers of two, four hands the most. There are a lot of good opportunities for the Serbian Ministry and Government, if, and should be, interested in association, because what are we going to do in the EU with small peasants... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Trnavciæević. )......................................................................................................... to restore and help rebuild the cooperative movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17981	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17982	Yes, we know that cooperatives are extremely important, not just for agriculture but at all. The Department of Business and Finance is working on making the law. One serious task force is engaged in this matter. All consultations were held with the Ministry of Agriculture. I hope that in September this law will be in the process. It was per program now, but due to a tight schedule it would be done in September of the month. You have seen that the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development also provides for cooperative subsidies. So, yeah, we want to, and we'll work on it. I'd take the chance, I didn't get here early, there wasn't time to answer Mr. Michael's findings about a million acres for the parched countries. Of course, I don't take it for myself, or the Ministry of Agriculture, or any blame, or any credit. It's a piece of information that they often deal with in the media, but I've tried to check the data more than once, and I haven't gotten the right information. It's very difficult to determine. We're waiting for an analysis of the agricultural list now, and then we'll have more accurate data. Otherwise, there are about 4,100,000 hectares of farmland in Serbia, of which about 450,000 hectares is state land and is leased about 280,000 hectares. We expect it to be 300,000 acres this year. There's a difference. One part is the morning pastures and the pastures, and one part is turned into building land, one into public land. You're from Vojvodina. You know, there's very little of that sparring land in Vojvodina, and there's a big jag for renting agricultural land, that the prices went up. Not to mention the private land that is now being sold, where prices went about 30% and 40% compared to the previous period. We'll see what this list shows. Inima is very important to this information. Here, I was in Chačka yesterday. We talked there, too. There are virtually no square meters of unprocessed surfaces. We also have a great demand from large investors for land in Serbia. I was talking to the Italian company Ferrer the other day. It is one of the largest producers in the conditor industry – "Nutela", "Rose Ferrer", those cubes. They're interested in nuts. They're interested in buying a thousand acres and renting another 10,000 acres for cooperatives. Therefore, one extraordinary chance. The land is extremely wanted. We're going to try all these capacities that we have in the land of exactly this kind of project big time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17983	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17984	Thank you. On behalf of my parliamentary group, I would positively assess the good change in policy, the prime minister himself admitted, in terms of Serbia's European path. The support of our parliamentary policy was never disputed, as well as national sobering and contributing to national reconciliation and willingness to go to Oplenac and bow to the crown of Karadjordjevic, those who created and expanded Serbia's borders, but also created the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which, unfortunately, left-wings broke. I expected today that, since Serbia is not the first time in a difficult economic situation, it happens to all countries from time to time, let us also remind ourselves of the best finance minister Serbia has ever had, Mr Lazar Pachu, who was not even an economist, but a doctor. Some parallels can be undermined. What did Mr. Lazar Patch do when he found an empty state register? First thing he did, he wrote off all the irrelevant expenses. Then he seduced the general savings. We haven't done it yet. Then he cut state officials' salaries. In this regard, contradictory statements are coming from the Government. Then he carried out a rigorous tax collection action, all taxes. Mr Dinkic told parliament the other day that tax payments are at an unsatisfactory level. Then, what the MPs proposed today, as we propose as a parliamentary group, significantly increased budget revenues from customs. I think it's a lot of demagogy, a lot of pulsism. All economic indicators say that we are in a very difficult situation and that there is little hope for optimism and that there is no magic wand to solve all problems, but something has to come from. Customs is a state to itself - internal control has been tied to customs duties for years, goods passing without customs duties, customs duties with lower interest rates etc. Thanks to these measures, only after a year, the Kingdom of Serbia has fully stabilised financially. She even endured the Customs War with Austro-Hungarian and increased the foreign trade trade during the Customs War, finding other markets by 100% and welcome Balkan and First World War financially. What can this government do? First, it must withdraw some unpopular measures and affect the change of life's mentality in someone else's account. For what? We are looking for one serious analysis of the effects of all the subsidies to be given. It's the most classic example of life on the prosecution account. Then, to suppress the black market, to pass the necessary laws on cooperatives, on crafts, on craft chambers... (President: Time.) I'm done. ... To amend the law on denationalisation, to introduce a substitution, which is much cheaper for the state. I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17985	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17986	Unfortunately, Lazi Pachuu was easier to fix the situation in Serbia's public finances than I am today, because only Serbia was in a financial crisis then, and the rest of the world was not. The problem in this situation and also all the dramatic situation is that today the whole world is in crisis, especially Europe. Some of these measures should certainly be applied and we will certainly apply them, but we must be aware that without the recovery of the eurozone countries, where we export 65% of our goods, there is no way that Serbia can live much better. It's a reality. It never happened even in the conditions of that great 1929 depression that this situation has a global economic crisis. I support your proposal and I will do it myself and suggest to the government that the effects of the subsidy be analysed and that subsidies be fucked where they are not necessary. When there is no need to first start from cutting inconsistencies and unnecessary or less necessary expenses. As for the pay cut in the administration, and I'm going to suggest it, I'm going to tell you right now. reduction of salaries in administration by 10%, republican, province and local, but not in public services, not in education, not in health and not in pensioners. As far as the pensioners are concerned, I've already said that pensions will certainly not be reduced. I'm sure they'll pay in health care and education won't be reduced. I'm sure they'll pay in the army and the police won't be reduced. We need to see what real possibilities are and how much and when they can grow in the next year and a half, so not just until the end of this year. It's something we're going to talk about, and we're all together in the coalition, and that's what we're going to go out with in front of the MPs. If only the administration of the Republic, the province and local could solve the problem, it would be simple. However, the total expenditure for this administration compared to the total budget is below 2%. So the maneuver to 2% of the budget is modest and that's reality, everything else is demagogy. What is a fact is that despite the low wages in the public sector and pensions, they today account for 52% of the total budget. They account for 25% of the total gross domestic product. They stand out more than Serbian exports complete over one year, and the fact is that the level of wage mass in the public sector compared to gross domestic product is far higher in Serbia than in countries of similar strength in Europe, not only the EU, but especially in countries that are in transition, not talking about pensions. No matter what pensions are low and no one wants to slow down, it is a fact, but the mass of pensions in the gross domestic product today is much higher than that in other countries in Europe and rarely which country has a greater share of the mass of pensions in the gross domestic product. That makes our mission incredibly difficult. Whoever thinks it's easy, I'm offering to take over this job for me. It's a very difficult job. Within these parameters, solutions must be found. I think the government will find solutions, I'm even convinced of that, but we have to have a greater consensus of the whole society on how to do it. It is certain that we must not allow the budget deficit to reach those projections that the IMF spoke of and I certainly will not be in the government if the deficit goes to that level. I will propose cutting the budget deficit that will bring it back to some normal frameworks that the current situation requires, given what the prime minister was saying, the balance between savings and the need for development. I certainly won't suggest suffocating any development. Corridor 11 must be built, canals must be built, must be invested in agriculture, investors must be brought in. If we hadn't brought investors, we wouldn't have had this growth we had today. Only with our own strengths would we not be able to do that. Surely we can use more so-called. Your own strength, but let's not be demagogues, that's not enough. We need investment on the international market. The program we're going to propose will be complex. It will not only contain measures to stabilise the budget, because it is insufficient and it is only for the public sector. It will also include measures to improve all those parts of the economy that can pull the trigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17987	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17988	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'd like to propose some other measures. When we talked about the budget, we said we needed to seduce the general austerity measures, from the least-wanted ones, cost savings at all levels, heating, fuel, official cars, municipal, city celebrations. Today, every municipal company, every local community, every municipality, every city continues to spend its resources on various celebrations that are totally irrelevant and unsuitable times. The health minister found a debt to a 130m-euro health institution that we turned into a public debt. She said she'd give us a list of the institutions that made the debt, the list never came. A new 3.5 billion dinar debt has been made for the past three months, and the health minister now says that if such an irresponsible way of handling health institutions is continued he will start to investigate and file criminal charges. That's what the government needs to do all the time. Has an analysis been carried out of the impact of our economy on the conversion of subsidies for jobs in agriculture, which has been a proposal for SPI and DHSS since the beginning? If wages are cut to civil servants, then there is no need to cut those minimum wages. A limit should be set, because it is not the same effect if you cut down on a college clerk and a salary of 30,000 and one who has 100,000. The government must make structural reforms of the tax, pension and health system. That's the information we're getting from the government, but that's not the step to go. An analysis should be carried out as to how much more savings would be in the process of denationalisation for the state and for all citizens of Serbia if the law on denationalisation was amended and the provisions on substitution were introduced, because 95% of the land that is mostly garnered and not processed could, on that basis, be returned to citizens rather than to pay the money on the burden of all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17989	Mr. Chiquirizu, your time is up. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17990	I agree with you that financial discipline must be introduced at all levels. An example from this law that you mentioned, about taking over the debts of health institutions, its implementation says so. The assembly voted to take over a debt that, according to health institutions, amounted to 13 billion dinars. When in the first three months of this year they reported a real debt with papers, documents, criminal and material responsibility, it proved to be only 4.7 billion. Many speak – the state owes us, which is why we can't do a lot of things, and they're exaggerating. The debt was 4.7 billion, not 30 billion dinars. I'm convinced that even the people who patched up the end of it, this road yesterday motivated them to go out on the street. They don't tell the truth when they say that the debt the state owes them is nine billion. I asked to determine how much the state really owes. What the state owes must be paid. But if there's something that's made up, then that's not the way. As far as discipline is concerned, there's no financial discipline at the moment, and you're absolutely right about that. I will do everything to establish discipline when it comes to the tax administration, and when it comes to regular payment of obligations within 45 days. I blocked 120 municipalities before, because within 45 days, different institutions did not pay obligations under the law in the private sector. When we blocked them, they all started paying. Now very few remain blocked. We'll block the dishes. In this country, courts today do not pay the bills they have taken over, within 45 days. They're 11 or 12 days late. Late and gerontological centers. Late and police administrations. How do we think our country will be arranged, if those who need to lead the order are late in reconciliation of their obligations? As finance minister, I'll do my best, but I repeat again, without the help of the entire society, there is no order and I can't bring an equal chance for everyone. Rerouting subsidies, of course, if that results. Currently, subsidies for agriculture are about 4% of the budget. The goal is to be 5, you know that yourself, at least. To create new jobs, this is what you're talking about, 0.7%. If the elimination of these subsidies really did give an analysis so good a result that it shifted to agriculture, I would accept it. I'm not sure. I don't think self-subsidisation in agriculture, without investment, is enough. Subsidies should help people by increasing their income. No investment in investments, buying new equipment, building irrigation channels, only giving money through subsidies can also be inefficient, even when agriculture is concerned. It is necessary to look at the system of all incentives in agriculture, as well as in any other activity. Also, the question should be asked – can we continue this way with public enterprises that, sooner or later, overturn their obligations to ordinary citizens. And Serbiaagas who is unable to pay state-guaranteed debts, so he says -- simply, we can't pay for it, and JAT, and Železnica and Resavica, so there are a lot of such companies, that we don't talk about some who would have to be profitable and not, like Galenika. Unfortunately, there's a lot to worry about, and there's a lot of things to take care of. I'm not afraid of challenges, and I'm sure I'll do anything with my colleagues to do it and solve these problems. Everyone who helps here is welcome. Unfortunately, I don't think some who make statements lightly are aware of the overall problem. That I'm not talking about the fact that complaints are being obtained, in international courts, for unpaid salaries to workers for a period when they haven't worked in the '90s, and who knows how much obligation they still have to get to the back of the state. I'm not saying these people shouldn't be compensated, but who pays? All Serbian citizens will pay. That's not what I'm paying for. At this point, I'm just running public finances and taking care of the government's cash register, and basically, the people are paying for it. So we all need to be solid, to understand the weight of the problem, that if we lead and bring some unpopular measures, not to attack those who propose these measures, but to analyse the effects – what if they don't apply. In that sense, I thank you for your suggestions because they are constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17991	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17992	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Papuga is on the board, so instead he would ask a question about the state country that the minister mentioned here, whenever we talk about economics here, the atmosphere is a little communicative, but I think there are some resources that are a bright point and that are constantly listed as some perspective of development, and the country is exactly one of these. In Serbia, 450,000 ha of state land, as far as I know, is agricultural land and that's what I'm talking about. As LSV, we proposed, when the Law on Public Property is adopted, to form a fund for agricultural land, for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is that, as the old English proverb says – the land is no longer produced, buy it. The proverb was heard by both Arabs and tycoons and all, but it would be good for those who care about agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia to hear it. The Agricultural Land Fund is something that would allow land to be used as collateral for, say, broadcasting some securities of value and on the basis of revenue from that land could be financed between 500m and a billion euros of annual investment in agriculture, in primary production, or, for example, clean up the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel, which is without further construction of the canal, quite enough to introduce irrigation in Vojvodina on most of the oranics, and as far as fertility is concerned, too. He was one of the diversified channel networks in Europe 200 years ago, not now. The question for Mr. Knezevic is – does this idea still exist? Is there anything to do with that? In a large number of local self-governments would have to be reconsidered the way the state-owned land is being leased, especially if the way it seems now is in a large number of municipalities the dark villa itself. The second thing, you can't deal with intensive agricultural production when you need a lease for many years to form permanent plantations or greenhouses and plastics, in any case, to deal with what brings some greater added value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17993	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17994	Yes, the country is one of the problems we're trying to solve. The earth is a treasure at all, and it's not said to be a treasure for nothing. She can't be substituted, she can't be brought from another place. It is one of the potentials, the enormous potentials that Serbia has, with, for now, a beneficial climate that we will fix with this irrigation, to the very quality land that we have. We studied, at least my generation, and I don't think yours did, that Serbia is a grain of Europe and that we can feed three Japans. Unfortunately, all of our resources have been quite dormant in previous years for a variety of reasons, not getting into it now, especially not dealing with politics. It's time to slowly activate it. We're working on it and we're trying to make a certain recognizable and predictable environment for agricultural producers, where they could plan their production over a long period of time. Three are the main instruments of this, and this is primarily a budget or a grant direct to agriculture, subsidies and investments. Others are very direct investments that I was just talking about. The third thing is regulation. This law on incentives in agriculture and rural development and the strategy involved, which should show and remove all these tense potentials and activate them over a long period of time. As far as the country is concerned, I just said that we have about 450,000 acres of that country. The law stipulates that the main word in the whole story is run by local self-governments that are making a programme to rent agricultural land, and the ministry is giving an opinion on these programmes. It's been going on for some time now. We've noticed there's a lot of problems in that sense. That's why we're going to take action. In fact, the working group has been working for about a month and a half to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act. They happen there and a little comical situation, you know it from the field best, it's about the right to cross the lease and some silent war that rules between cattlemen and warlords and pure warlords. That's a huge problem. I hope we can work it out in the next period. This is a good idea, and we're already working on where you said that this country could be collateral for some borrowing. We're doing a law on pre-financing where we have the support of the World Bank and it's funding a part of it, where they're going to allow some of the funds and banks and ensuring that companies are placed under much more favourable means. It was done now, that some goods were bought greenly, that many producers invested in this production. We expect great competition to be created here now and to be systematically resolved. When we say competition, we think that companies, banks and many others who are interested will participate, and that this competition will certainly lead to much more quality relations between producers and these buyers on green. That's about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17995	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17996	Thank you for your response. In any case, we see the country as definitely a great potential. In particular, this is one of the ideas I've come up with. Also, we had the idea that a guarantee fund could be capitalised with a state country within the Ministry of Agriculture or the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture, where it would not have to subsidise interest from the budget, as has been done so far, but could be issued guarantees for the taking of agricultural loans, which would greatly reduce these expenditures. In any case, we in Vojvodina need to come to some solutions that concern comprehensive agrarian policies as quickly as possible, because right now, Vojvodina is an undeveloped region, according to the latest data. If you look not only at unemployment, and the amount of personal income, etc. You will see that we are far from what we were, and now we have fallen below the average of the Republic. So, regardless of who's guilty, whether the Republic or the province government, who are constantly exchanging accusations with each other, what's going on in the economy, and especially in agriculture, is not going to be able to wait for these eternal agreements, but farmers have to be able to sort of plan in the long run what they're going to sow and what they're going to do. So, hopefully, your co-operation with the provincial secretary has already improved in the coming period compared to the past period, but all in the direction that farmers in Vojvodina do not suffer from political disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17997	MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17998	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question in the first address will be addressed to Mr. Dinkic and Mr. Ilic. It's about tourism. It is, of course, about this topic today and about the economy, and what I want to remind you today is that Vrnjaka Banja celebrates 145 years of organized tourism. We're still leaders with over a million overnight stays over the year, and we're setting an example for all other tourist resorts as they should be done. What I think is our handicaps, and I expect an answer from you, two things. The first privatisation of HTP "Fontane", which has long stood in one unresolved status. I expect Mr Dinkic will be able to give me an answer to what's going on in that direction. At this point, I would also like to commend Mr Velimir Ilic for these highways that work in Serbia. One of them passes by Vrnjačka Banja, and it is very important for us to have our local tourism development strategy, since we expect that it will be easier for all guests to reach Vrnjačka Banja. Mr. Dinkic, I just don't understand one thing. In the strategy of tourism done by the government, it says like this – it should be pointed out that rehabilitating existing accommodation offers, often linked to the still incomplete privatisation process, should, as a rule, have priority over investment in new projects in greenfield investments. When it comes to Vranjska Banja, all this time it wasn't a rule, so I'm interested - are we going to make this turn in the course we've been on in 2013? Someone just said there was a lot of investment in tourism, probably and certainly, and that's good, but in Vranjska Banja, very little. I expect 2013 to be very important, especially for Vrnjaka Banja, and I expect that we will receive support from you both from Mr Ilic for all those projects we have run for, or at least part of those projects. So, the question for Mr Dinkic – what is going on with HTP "Fontan"? Two questions for Mr. Ilic – the projects we have been running for, can we expect some realisation quickly, at least some of the projects that are in your possession? Can Mr. Ilic give me information about what's going on with the airport in the Boats, when it's time for his release? That in this first address.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u17999	Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18000	You're absolutely right. Unfortunately, Banish tourism has fallen quite lagging in Serbia compared to other tourism branches in the last few years. Not because of the spas themselves. There was a lot of investment in the spa, but it was in the last century. It hasn't been invested in these last 10 or 15 years. Our spas are lagging behind compared to other spas in Central Europe. We have great climate conditions, determined nature, people. It's all there, but there were no investments and they're no longer our spas from anywhere near modern when we look at the spas in Slovenia, let alone in Austria, other European countries. Why is it so and why are Greenfield projects in tourism easier than upgrading what some previous generations have done? That's good and real questions. The fact is that some people who are in the current spas are afraid of entering and private capital and partnerships with municipalities and states in order to retain existing privileges. To be completely open, spas have good traffic, but it can be many times bigger and many would like to keep existing positions. We had in the past and previous year the interest of one of the largest European companies to invest in Vrnjačka Banja, so the parliamentary group that asked for a debate on these issues simply prevented it physically, thinking that this way it would lose power in local elections, if it retains those positions and if it prevents the entry of a serious investor who would modernise the HTP "Fontata". It was an investment by one of the largest European groups in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and it was prevented from entering Vrnjačka Banja for one miserable reason, the fear of this DS parliamentary group, I am talking about a party and not a group, which prevented it at that time. What happened? They lost the Vranjska Banja election. What happens now? To turn to the future, a public call will be called for the privatisation of the HTP "Fontana" property. There's a lot of people who are interested. We hope that this will succeed, and that these tragedies from a month ago, two days ago, happen, that in those ruins of that hotel, which has never been completed, and that, long ago, the children are being built, the children are being killed, but that someone is bringing it into order, to modernise, to make modern hotels and to increase the traffic of Vranjska Banja, because it is in the interest of the citizens who live there. It is a model that should be forced in the next period, public – private partnership for the development of spas. If it could have worked in Prolom Banja, if it could have succeeded in Atomska Banja near Čačka, it can in all our spas give a much better effect and I am definitely encouraged by the fact that the new leadership of Vranjska Banja provides support for investments and investments in Vranjska Banja, regardless of whether it comes from the state and from the private sector because the goal is to improve this and that the nature that has its beauty and charms is engrossed in some modern content and that these people can come much more, that it is primarily for the rehabilitation of the people who need it, but that those people who are not sick to spend their money, have been recruited and in this sense I expect that through this partnership the municipalities and private sector and the state of Vranjka Banja will be much better than they are now. It is currently the number one spa in Serbia along with Koviljaca or Sokobanja, but each of these spas can be much stronger and better.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18001	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18002	I'll answer it in a hurry. I hope you'll repeat part of the question so I can finish it all over again because there's little time left. It is true that Vrnjaka Banja is the priority of all investments in Banja tourism and we have done everything to improve the infrastructure, to bring traffic, to be safely used and invested in Banja and into the entry itself, etc. Now it's one big project and it's a reconstruction and a park and a whole center and a whole zone. You know that you are hosting a celebration of the Milan Edict and that there will be a gathering of many people from all over the world to come to Vrnjačka Banja. Unfortunately, you've been doing a phase project and you've got to re-order part of the project to finish. We've provided you with the funds. We'll be done for sure. After the time's up, you'll ask again, and I'll finish you off.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18003	This part is clear to me. There's plenty of time left in front of us. I believe what you just said to me, even though we talked about something like that a month ago, so there was no movement. I believe the construction season is just starting. The second question, I am sorry that the prime minister is not present right now, but I believe that any of the ministers present will be able to give me an answer or at least tell us what will happen to this issue in the future. This is one of the issues that is, of course, important for all citizens of Serbia, and it is especially important for us from Unique Serbia because it is the basis of our programme. In addition to this tourism strategy I was just talking about, there was another strategy, which is a strategy to encourage birth with someone, though, an older date. What I read inside, so far, is not very practical. This topic was launched one night when we had a debate here on an agreement signed by Brussels and Pristina. That night I said that these agreements could be, not only that one, but a lot of such agreements can be ahead of us in the coming years, unless someone starts seriously dealing with the fight against the white plague. On that evening, I asked the prime minister, together with his team, to move with the ministers in the government to create such a project, a state, a national project, without whom this economy and everything we talk is slowly losing all meaning. What I'm interested in -- did you start to do something about it and, if not, what period is something like this planned?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18004	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18005	I'd like to complete the answer you've set for you. Simply, the project that is under way is complete, and we are now going through your new tender, which you will call out to provide funds and we have the means to end it in general and that Vrnjaka Banja looks much better. Of course, you came with another project, building some infrastructure facilities, one bridge and one other thing, that's accepted. It's going to finance you the same thing. The problem is the procedure you must respect, very fast tender documentation. So, we'll give you the papers that the funds are provided, you'll implement and we'll make it happen immediately. So, all those projects we agreed on will be completed very quickly and we are pleased with the review of the project documentation that you have submitted and that is why we have paid off all the situations until the last one. All the projects that were done in Vranjska Banja have been paid off. You have expressed your wish, and we need to see it with Minister Dinkic, to finish, because it would be a great shame if Vranjska Banja did not get one aqua park, which you were looking for and you have a location that was set for it. The location is extraordinary, it's communally equipped. It is necessary to find a mode of some lending or funding, because it is a shame that one bathroom of that renome does not exist, though that guests who come have both entertainment and entertainment etc. We'll do all that, hopefully, very quickly and together. Of course, it means a lot to the airport in the Boats. You asked a good question. I am pleased that Mr. Bačević is working on a spatial plan to adapt to the municipalities of Cačka and Kralje and to bring this to an end. We've done idea projects, and I'm glad that a letter from the Emirates came yesterday about their intentions to accept the complete investment of the Boats, and we're going to apply the project documentation. Project documentation is done. Today there was a meeting in the National Defence to regulate some other papers in the Ministry of Defence, to expand the runways, extend the runways, to create a kargo centre, which will significantly improve the tourist development of the entire region, as charter flights will be able to be used for the arrival of spas, such as Mataruska Banja, Bogtovačka Banja, Vrnjačka Banja. It's an extremely big interest in Novi Pazar as well. You know that Turkey has made one donation of 10 million. Recently, they were their investors who wanted to fully accept loans. I'm glad the Ministry of Agriculture has given us the consent to work together on this project. Mr. Rasim Ljajic has given the stock reserves to be used in the storage space, and recently the entire "Deleze" chain has reported that they want to work, cooperate, that everything here is packed according to their standards, and that the centre, which would be built in Ships and Katerza, can supply their entire trade chain. Therefore, all this is important for Vrnjaka Banja and for the entire region. I hope it all works out as soon as possible. It's all done. One team that's formed does that. Study's over. The Machine Project has done a complete study of justification and therefore the interest of investors is great. I think it's going to be one of the first investments with the Emirates, which is on the dock, because they asked us to just attach the project documentation to them. Go to tendering, and we'll finish your full investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18006	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18007	Thank you, Mr. President. I have another question for Minister Velimir Ilic. Mr. Ilic, why is building in Belgrade so expensive? Why are Belgrade's flats sold at a price of 1800 to 2000 square meters and the construction is twice as low? Could you answer that question for me?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18008	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18009	I'd love to. It is one question that everyone who comes to Belgrade to invest, build and work. All investors coming to Belgrade these days ask one question, which is -- why do they call air tax in Belgrade around 300 euros? It is simply current in all foreign companies that want to invest in the city of Belgrade. They agree to pay taxes on foreign investment of the city, to pay taxes on infrastructure, but they are not to pay those taxes that are not realistically to be done or already done in some previous years. Therefore, the real building on the buildings that we are now working on through the construction directorate of the Republic of Serbia, that is our directorate, Vladina, is 400 euros per square, maximum. So, performance and work and material. All other things are other duties. We can't encourage construction and the construction union has asked that question. Why are taxes so big? Solidarity building, which we have called in 14 Serbian cities these days, all offers have come, the key to the hands, up to 400 euros, 380, 370, 390 and that is it. However, this is cheap because cities gave up taxes to local administration. We have a problem with large duties. This burdens the location of Prokop, where the infrastructure is fully done and is holding back one of the largest investments in Belgrade. It's the location of the current train station. It is a former project that Milosevic wanted to do, "Europolis", which was then declared an investment of the year and which is a great project. At 100 hectares of the country, located in the most expensive country in Belgrade, all investors want to build there, but the condition is that the old railway station is dislocated to Prokop. The Prokop is all over, but the taxes according to Prokop are bigger than the construction itself, and even during the late Branko Pesic all infrastructure was built. Now all investors who applied for Prokop, such as Trigranit, who won the job tender, canceled when they heard the figures they had to pay. Now, is it in Belgrade's interest for this investment to be completed, to employ hundreds of thousands of people at the site, to create large shopping centres, hotel accommodation, apartments and everything else, to complete Prokop's location or to sew something through taxes that are extremely large at the beginning? Therefore, if we are to help the builders, we must reduce these obligations. Here, you see in Stepa's location, which is now ending, it's about 5,000 apartments, taxes to the Ministry of People's Defence are large, 21% of apartments go to the location, 300 euros to the city, other taxes that have been paid, and all that when you add up, the location is extremely expensive per square, and in fact, in the performance part of 400 euros now costs the key in your hands. Therefore, if we want to help the construction industry, the construction industry, if we want to hire people, 80,000 people in construction companies are out of work in the meantime, to get them back to work, which would mean for Serbia, that this relationship between pensioners and workers who are really working is not a pension problem, but the problem that few people are doing and can't handle this kind of tax, the number of employees has to increase the minority by double so that we can withstand all these taxes that are justified. There, that's the reason. I would ask the authorities in both the city of Belgrade and the Republic to minimise these taxes and thus help builders to work normally, invest, build and provide all the homeless. The Chinese banks have loaned us 10,000 apartments these days with interest rates of 2.5%. Can we make the locations cheaper and all the homeless in Serbia get a roof over their heads? There is no happy family in Serbia without a roof over its head. And the birth rate and everything will start.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18010	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18011	Dear President of the Assembly, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that this topic that Parliament is today discussing is of crucial importance for the further development of our country and I am very sorry that we do not have at least 200 MPs in the Assembly today, which is such a small number of MPs. I will refer two questions to Minister Dinkic, which concerns the problems of the gray economy and public sector reform, with particular emphasis on public enterprises, and all in favour of our country's thesis and strategy, which involves the transition from the official society, which today operates in our country, to the company society. My colleague Zoltan Peck talked about the problems of the gray economy, he talked about the fact that more than 30% of GDP is gone and spent through actions affecting the grey economy and affecting the inefficientness, insufficiently filling our country's budget, but also that of the great monster concerning the black market, labour force and constant violation of labour rights guaranteed by all conventions of the International Labour Organisation, the European Social Command which our country and our Parliament ratified in 2009 and the Labour Law and all other laws concerning the achievement of our people's social and economic rights. My question concerns how, with the measures of tax policy, which the Ministry of Finance and Business has already implemented, and regarding the redundancies of the economy, incentivise micro-small and medium-sized enterprises, how do we, in addition to achieving the confidence of citizens and entrepreneurs in the state and reducing corruption and crime, which are very important parameters in reducing and bringing down the grey economy to some real level and percentage, how do we further encourage people to self-employment, to new entrepreneurial initiatives? Accordingly, I ask Mr. Minister, will legislative regulations be passed in due time that defines micro-financing, micro-credit and the opening of new enterprises, especially micro-enterprises, modelled by developed countries, as well as those countries that are developing and poor countries where this would be one of the main employment generators? I have to mention, for example, there are 50,000 companies in the Vicenza region of Italy. So nine people get one company, and most of these companies just represent micro-enterprises that employ up to 10 people. Such a project has already started, I just expect information on whether it will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18012	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18013	Certainly, encouraging entrepreneurship is a prerequisite for development, because if there are no those who are driving this development, it will not happen. As far as micro-credit issues are concerned, there are different experiences in different countries. For example, these experiences in Italy were good. What worries me about micro-credit is what conditions are ready so-called. micro credit financial institutions offer these small entrepreneurs, because unfortunately, when some of these organisations came to us, they offer interest that is even greater than that of commercial commercial banks. So there's always a question of how to find the right measure between a risk that definitely comes from a beginner's loan or a small entrepreneur having one that's in a financial institution, and on the other hand how to give a man a chance to show what he knows? If you charge him with high interest, he doesn't have a chance to make that initial success, so he won't even get to the stage to move into a small or medium-sized enterprise. What I think is a model that Serbia could use is to find a connection between the supply chain for large systems, because only encouraging small entrepreneurs, which are not related to someone medium, so this medium for larger, can produce results, but will invest a lot of resources, and these effects will be limited. For example, Gorenje has three factories in Serbia and they want to hire a lot of domestic enterprises. How does a company know that the Burning needs exactly the company's profile and how to get it into that system? That's what the state needs to answer. We will, together with the institutions who want to help us work on it. I had a meeting last week with the International Financial Corporation. She wants to invest exclusively in food industry companies in the coming period, because, just as many MPs have said and as the minister said, she thinks it's a huge untapped potential. But first of all, how do we connect that farmer in the field to someone who will process his product and make a chain so that we export as many final products as possible and not products that are raw materials? Also, what we're going to try to do for small and medium-sized enterprises, I don't mind, and that's primarily in the scope of the Central Bank regulation, to see if micro-credit institutions would help develop such enterprises. If that's the case, we at the Ministry of Finance will support it. What we will do specifically, which is up to us, is to conclude appropriate credit lines with the European Investment Bank, to allow, above all, long-term sources for crafts. It's rare today to invest. Today people need trade capital to buy raw materials, to pay their profits to people, but the problem is that the crafts are at our banks and expensive and short-term. It is much more important today, I think, to provide funds that are on a long-term basis, and even at the cost that the interest rate is slightly higher. That is why 500m euros will be agreed with the European Investment Bank and one good part of these funds will be allocated, not only to finance investments, but primarily to invest in the need for crafts, because the deadlines that banks today provide for crafts is up to two years longer, and we think it should be at least five to seven years in times of crisis, in order for a company to be obliged to take credit for crafts. Such conditions, unfortunately, cannot be offered by any of our banks, only by the European Investment Bank. That's why we're gonna negotiate one of those lines this summer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18014	Mr. Marinkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18015	I thank you for taking the initiative. The second issue concerns public sector reform. I know that you advocated an even more rigid law than the one that was passed in the National Assembly at the end of last year, the Law on Public Enterprises. I had the opportunity to talk to Minister Mihajlovic this morning about the corporate corporate corporate process for which she, as a resolute minister in charge, means it concerns electricity, electricity networks and other businesses. I'd like to hear if there are any changes in that domain. Is it possible to draw new solutions to make the public sector and public enterprises more efficient, better? This refers to one proposal that would concern the establishment of a central agency, a central institution that would now exercise control. Therefore, it would oversee the work of the public sector and public enterprises and would be responsible for, of course, correcting, unless these companies operate effectively and yield the results necessary. I also think it is necessary to call an international tender, in fact, an international competition for the management of these companies, because it is shown that we simply cannot get out of this whirlwind of the use of soft budgetary constraints when it comes to public enterprises and the public sector. Is it possible to bring in a whole new public sector strategy and resolve this issue in the long term? I think that's what you were just talking about, encouraging a public private partnership, which we almost don't use in our economic development and the projects that we have and which will be able to realise in the coming period, that we can simply edit the public sector and public enterprises in one quality and better way. Of course, a clear corporate governance system in these companies, which would be consistent with models already applied by public companies in developed countries. This model of course involves what is called participatory management model, joint decision-making between management and employees, but of course one clear responsibility for the results set out in the business plan. I think it's crucial for our country and is closely linked to the incentive of entrepreneurship and the private sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18016	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18017	You are absolutely right and one of the important things that must be done in the next period is this complete public sector strategy and there are two groups of problems. First, the fact that most of the loss piles are just the public sector and public sector wages are 20% more than in the private sector. It's not normal or okay. And I have to point out that when I talk about public sector wages being 20% more than in the private sector that it's not exactly even and that it has to pay attention to the structure. For example, education and health pay are no more than in the private sector, when we talk about averages, they are not even in culture, but that's why they are in the administration, what is most paradoxical is in public enterprises, and that's for a lot more than 20 percent of these. It is paradoxical that then public enterprises that make the biggest losses have bigger salaries than the private sector that supports them. There's got to be a huge cut here. I fully agree with you that the state must do in those public enterprises that it wants to keep in its public corporation, to improve the efficiency of governance. But the state must first imagine and say which public enterprises it wants to continue to run, which it wants out of. The state cannot survive in all public enterprises, either in the Republic or in the local. So, let's privatize, let's recapitize, somewhere it can be mixed property, and in some it should stay. This is where a strategy must now be adopted and within this plan that I have announced to you to reduce the budget deficit and state budget solutions, our government will come out with a complex strategy related to and this part of the public sector, which is which companies we have from public to privatise, where we will go to look for strategic investors for capitalisation that we can possibly put on a long-term lease, that the state remains the owner, and that it no longer manages them and that it only collects rent from it and that it leaves the management of one who may be more capable than the state. Finally, at the level of a local public enterprise where the municipalities themselves should be stimulated, since it is in their jurisdiction to go to a public private partnership because we haven't taken advantage of our opportunities very closely.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18018	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18019	President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I must deny myself from a few weeks ago when it seemed to me that the spirit of Ilija Cvorovic ruled here, I was wrong. This is today a combination of Twin Pix and Better Life, and in such an atmosphere, this kind of debate is taking place. It's like we're in the twilight zone. Here are the expressions "national defense", "personal income", as if we live in 1972, "we must", "we must believe", "the social conditions must be acquired". Just to say in the beginning, I have no question for Minister Dinkic and I do not want Minister Dinkic to answer my question, I have a question for Mr Knezevic. I am sorry, Mr. Knezevic, you are here right now, the highest official from the government of the largest ruling party, and I am interested in the concrete answers, or the opinion of your party. We heard what Mr Dinkic thinks about freezing wages and pensions and public sector pay policy, I'm curious about what the SNS thinks. So will the SNS vote to freeze wages and pensions or possibly reduce wages and pensions? That's the first question. The second question is why you keep talking about it, or those who advocate it, who claim that they will not cut salaries and pensions, to protect the standard of workers and pensioners. And in this situation, even if there are no cuts in wages and pensions, real wages and pensions are falling, and it's not just the situation in this government's mandate, so it was in the past government. When inflation is over 12% and pension increases 2%, that means pension is less than 10%. Since there is no Mr. Krkobic here today, my question for your party is, which is why I have a constant impression that you are hiding in different segments of state policy, because, above all, this is a state policy behind some smaller parties, so when it comes to economies, public enterprises, public finances, for example, behind Mr. Dinkic, seven or eight days, those who have experience in this assembly see, there has never been such an atmosphere of mistrust and mutual tampering among coalition partners. When it comes to pensions, then you hide behind Mr. Krkobiæ. They are not ultimately and cannot be responsible for party policies that have low single-digit support. You claim that the majority of Serbia supports you today. My question is, what kind of economic policy will you lead, which is why you raised VAT and excise duties, thus jeopardising the budget and jeopardising the standard of citizens, which is why you tolerate this rate of inflation, which also reduces the income of those who receive money from the budget. Finally, the key question, do you want to freeze wages and pensions?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18020	Mr. Princeevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18021	I didn't understand, we're not afraid of anything, we're not running away from responsibility. We simply think that in the economy as well as in all other segments there must be a consensus in the government on some issues. I agree that there have been different opinions, different statements through the media these days, and the only reason why this issue has appeared in the media, and then it was exploited in different ways, and even to me yesterday in Chačka on local media, when talking at the Faculty of Agriculture or on issues from agriculture, the question arises, what do you think about the reconstruction of the Government, etc. Of course, we're not running away to talk about it. It is necessary, not only because of this difficult situation in the economy, but because of the government and its future steps, to identify ourselves on these difficult issues. It is very important that a few things be represented, first of all, pension fund reform, public enterprise reform, public administration reform. We are for that, but believe me, it's very difficult in conditions like this and the limited possibilities that we have, to cut it in one such way, because it takes over 25 years and no one has done anything on that plan so far. We had a great opportunity in 1990, 2000, and now we have a great opportunity in 2013 to do so. As for your question, salary and pension, they will not be reduced. The coalition-level discussion is scheduled for Sunday, and we will come up with concrete views of the government of the Republic of Serbia on all these issues Monday. There won't be a single question without talking about it and not having a firm view of it. I am convinced that after that week, with our official views we will be able to inform the public and that these will be concrete things that will answer most of the questions that you have asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-30-0.u18022	Thank you. Since the time to answer the questions for 180 minutes has been spent... (National MP Bojan Đuric, from the place: How in half? )......................................................................................................... Of course I can, the Rules of Procedure tell me that the time at the session is 180 minutes, and I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Before I finish my work, allow me to thank on your behalf and on behalf of the members of the government who have answered parliamentary questions about the topic in question. We are finishing work in Dan to answer parliamentary questions and thank you for your participation.
