ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Please listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists when the agenda is established if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Given that today is Thursday, does one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12837	At the beginning of this regular session, I wanted to point to a serious violation of parliamentary rights, and 0442o is that on the last Thursday of the month we ask the prime minister and ministers questions. In Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which we all call upon, states that it is the President of the Assembly who takes care of the work of the Assembly in accordance with these provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Article 205 states MPs have the right to ask questions at the prime minister and ministers' session last Thursday of the month if the session is under way. In January and February 2013, it happened that the session ended on Wednesday, so on Thursday, January 28th and February 28th, we had no opportunity to ask the prime minister and ministers a variety of issues very important to citizens. People point to me and say – well, there are other options, etc. These other options, I can tell you, you know, are very problematic because there are PR services, there are all the rings around the Prime Minister and the Minister himself, and so far I have failed to, with the exception of Vice President Rasim Ljajic, to be accepted and to say, draw attention to some important question. That's why I sent both a letter and a telegram to the Assembly Presidency on this issue, and I demand that the Bureau of the Assembly and the President make sure that the last Thursday is a session in progress, and that this can be achieved so that if the session takes place, not on Monday as usual, but on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, when the vote or in another way is still sitting and working, and that we are given the opportunity to ask a question, because time, precious time, is passing. Three months will pass as I will have the opportunity to ask questions that are very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12838	Thank you. In answer to your question, I will read you Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure, to ask parliamentary questions to the government in the presence of government members every last Thursday of the month at a session that is under 16-18 hours, when work on the agenda is interrupted. Since the session ended on Wednesday, that was the reason you didn't have it. (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the place: I know that. I ask that the session be held on Thursday. ) The word has a folk letter by Olgica Batić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12839	Thank you. I have two short questions to ask. First question I will ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Selakovic. Namely, the former mortgages of the PKK Bank have since 2003, sued the Commercial Bank AD Belgrade, a total of 103, all for the realisation of their claims. Namely, they are mortgages on immovableity, more specifically the building in Svetogorska Street 42-44, and as the defendant is sued, i.e. The commercial bank whose branch today is located at that address has become an out-of-book owner of the disputed immovableity, and all under the purchase contract, of course, following the approval of the winding-up council of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, how is it that the claims of such prosecutors are not settled from the value of this particular immovableity, are completely ignored, so that they have been devoid of the status of mortgage creditors, as such completely neglected, and from the value of this same immovableity those who did not have a mortgage on it or have entered the mortgage after the prosecutor, which is completely contrary to the law? Therefore, my question to Minister Selakovic is - how could the court have allowed such a single sale of immovable property without the opinion and approval of the trustees? Because the board could take matters into their own hands and sell themselves mortgages, since the whole building was mortgaged. Another additional issue for Minister Selakovic, the same is -- how is it possible for mortgage creditors, and by the decision of the former Belgrade District Court, to delete the claimable rights to immovable property, i.e. their mentioned mortgage, and to order more immovableity cadasar services to delete the hostage rights, therefore, precisely the mortgage of the defendants? My second question is to the president of the National Assembly, but you can answer it too. Namely, when will the President of the National Assembly propose to the National Assembly a candidate for members of the Committee for the Review of Liability for Human Rights Violation and all in accordance with his obligation under Article 23(2). The law on liability for human rights violations, since so far no president of the National Assembly has fulfilled this obligation? I have a complete understanding of the current National Assembly president, since so far, at least as far as I can see, has consistently applied all the regulations relating to his work. I believe he will fulfill this obligation. Because until the president fulfils his obligation, we cannot act as MPs. So I ask the President of the Assembly to approach this problem as quickly as possible, because thanks to the "zealousness" of his predecessors, we must act urgently, since we should bear in mind that the Law on Liability for Human Rights, known as the Law on Lustration, is about to cease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12840	The speaker of the assembly will answer your questions within the deadline provided. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12841	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly and the National Democratic Institute have launched a pilot project to open parliamentary offices, i.e. the Office for Communication of People's MPs with citizens at the local level. According to the project, the MP's office was opened in Nis, unfortunately, without the support of local self-government. The office's work takes place from December 22nd last year, and working hours are daily, from 9 to 13 hours. The Office has a number of volunteers, primarily activists from the Youth PuPS Act. During the previous period, i.e. over the last two months, a large number of citizens reported to the Office, requested some assistance, asked to resolve certain issues, but also certain associations and certain NGOs, and even the institutions of the city of Nis, appeared. Among other things, low television has also appeared these days as the current regional public service. Unfortunately, in Nis at the end of the previous year we had this accident to close two more regional public services – TV5, TV Zone. Representatives of television asked for help and insisted that I ask a few parliamentary questions to the Minister of Culture and Information and the Government. Before that, I'd like to explain it briefly. In an annual report on Serbia's progress, published in October 2012, the European Commission requested the speedy implementation of the Media Strategy, adopted by the Serbian government on 28 September 2011. The strategy defined a period of 18 months for its implementation through a number of media laws. Serbia has been granted EU membership candidate status in part thanks to the adoption of a Media Strategy which, among other things, envisions the establishment of six regional services. Questions for the Minister of Culture and Information and the Government, above all Low Television, and I believe that it is interesting for other regional public services, since these days a Law on Public Information, which is contrary to the Strategy adopted by the Government, has been set up on the site of the Ministry of Culture and Information, will the Ministry of Culture and Information implement the Media Strategy as a whole or only in parts that correspond to individual stakeholders? The second question – is the Serbian government considering abolishing or changing the Media Strategy? The next question – is it possible for a set of media laws to be contrary to the media strategy? How is it possible that there are more public services in Belgrade and Novi Sad – RTS1, RTS2, TRV1, RTV2, Radio Belgrade 1, Radio Belgrade 2, Radio Yugoslavia, Radio 202, Radio Novi Sad, and the rights of citizens south of Belgrade are disputed? Will the media law set provide for regional public services? Were there representatives in the task force to represent the interests of Central, South and Southeast Serbia? Were the working group presidents of the regional and local media coalition? There's another set of questions, but this is enough for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12842	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12843	Just a little peace in the O.R., if you don't mind? Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have a question for the president of the National Assembly, Nebojsa Stefanovic -- who motivated him to ignore the LDP parliamentary group's request, submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and to make it impossible, within a normal, decent and appropriate period in this National Assembly, to discuss once more with the subject of milk law in Serbia, everything that has happened in the past two weeks, about the LDP proposal that all of us here in parliament with the Government are going through once again all of the rules concerning food safety standards and to try to make a legal order so that never again in the future what shakes Serbia in the first two weeks? I see, Mrs. Kovac, that the deputy secretary points you to the members of the Rules of Procedure. I assume your answer will be that Parliament's president has the right to schedule a session once a month, and in this case he will do so by the end of the month, which is what Parliament Speaker Nebojsa Stefanovic has informed the LDP parliamentary group. That's why I didn't ask what business reasons motivated Mr. Stefanovic to postpone the session for a month, but which human, moral and political reasons were his motivation, to make it impossible for the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian citizens to find out what the standards were and were the standards for the quality of milk met? 16 days ago, Mrs Kovac, at the same session, I asked a parliamentary question asking answers to the question – how is the milk? That was the first day of the crisis. The business deadline was up, and I didn't get an answer, and then I begged you to stop ignoring the life that exists outside this room. That life, meanwhile, came back to us like a slap in the face. The results came in from Holland last night. They show the irresponsibility of political indiscriminateness, insensitiveness towards Serbian citizens. The Liberal Democratic Party has been trying from the start to prevent any politics. We were just looking for order, respect for basic rules, and that no one was laughing at the citizens of Serbia. You can pack in Serbian media a title and a lid of news, but you can't pack any more comments. Look at the comments. People do not agree to the formulation of 31% of milk is in line with EU standards, and no sample is outside of Serbia's standards. Since Serbia's standards have been forced, in a corrupt and rude manner in the meantime they have changed and have been changed so that the preliminary results made in the Netherlands would not show that in 69% of samples, the levels of aflatoxin are far above the standards that apply in Serbia at the time the milk was taken from the shelves. Yesterday we got information on the analysis of milk taken on February 19th, what was the milk on February 17th, what was February 25th, and what was it like yesterday? That is my question for Nebojsa Stefanovic, the president of parliament, and then for the prime minister of the country's government. You can, within your party or within coalition decisions, falsify reality, wait March 15th, and make whatever decisions you want about the responsibility of ministers and government members. I'm less interested in that. Serbian citizens cannot wait on March 15th. What you have offered as an explanation, an ambition to protect a Serbian peasant, a producer, and then you have not met the citizens. After what happened, everyone suffered, first the consumers, and then the producers, and then the whole country. The document that arrived from the Netherlands last night contains a label – alarming results. It's a laboratory standard and it's an EU standard and it's a standard that existed at the time of taking those samples. It's not too late to prevent even part of the damage. If you or any of the other vice presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs. Kovac, are authorized, you can schedule that session for tomorrow. (President: Time. ) Just don't let cattle in Serbia have ten times better treatment than people. At this point, you still have a rule that cattle have the right to ten times more proper food than children and people in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12844	As for the questions you asked Mr Stefanovic, I hope that Mr Stefanovic will answer within the deadline. As for asking questions on the topic, it will certainly be scheduled within a very short time period of session, such as your parliamentary group in response and won, we will only agree when the president returns. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12845	I have a question for the Minister of Culture and Information Mr. Bratislava Petkovic. Will the Ministry of Culture and Information with the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian Academy of Science launch an initiative to mark 900 years since the birth of Stefan Nemanja, the creator of the Serbian state and the progenitor of our most successful lineage of Germany? Stefan Nemanja is one of the most important figures in Serbian history. His most important work is the state of Serbia that still exists today. The Germans are the birthplace for Serbian culture, tradition, church, or birthplace for Serbian national identity, and in this year, when a thousand seven hundred years from the Milan edict are marked, I believe, the final moment is to mark the birth of a major mayor by a convenient manifestation of the spiritual academy. We do not have the right because of our famous ancestors, because of the future of our children, to deal with negligence when it comes to our most famous and significant personalities. I expect the answer of Culture and Information Minister Bratislava Petkovic as soon as possible with one proposal to sponsor this event as president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12846	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12847	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this issue can serve political speeches, and it can also be for specific citizens' problems. In this case, the issue was addressed to Minister Selakovic. First I'll read the citizen's letter – they change my identity by extracting a new birth certificate. The change is in the date of birth, i.e. the unique number of citizens. I took out a copy of the birth certificate because my ID card and driver expired and instead of 14.01.1955, as it has been in all documents since birth until now, it stands at 13.01.1955. As it's all computerized over the past few years, so it's possible that there are errors in data input, I've been looking for insight into the original Mother's Book of Birth. A beautiful, readable manuscript says that I was born on 13 January at 24:00, exactly at midnight, and since all previous years of midnight were considered the beginning of a new day, all my previous documents that I didn't issue to myself, but official persons, were dated 14.01.1955. The head of the parent service and the chief of staff have reason not to know what they're going to do. They refuse to enter into the computer any previous interpretations, which all my documents prove, on 14 January 1955. So, Mr. Markovic, I'm a new face. All that would be nice if life began to amount. Like this, I haven't finished any schools, I don't have a day's work experience, because all pension payments went with my old single home number, I don't have an apartment, I don't have a credit card, I didn't give birth to my daughter. This isn't funny to me. I asked the chief to photocopy my I.D. and passport and request interpretation from the Department of Justice and State Administration. It was passed a long time ago and there's no answer. It was passed to Jasmine Benmansur, assistant minister, the parent book management sector. It's only when I think about my working hair standing up on my head. Mr. Selakovic, as much as it's changed and computerized the administration, the data, which is great, at the end of the day, when a problem comes up, someone has to make a personal decision. Please inform Slavko Draskovic, head of the Diaspora Office and Mr Mrkic, not only with the assistant minister. Why? This young lady was born 55 and lives in central Serbia in Paracino. These random, I hope, problems are making, as you can see, a terrible problem for the citizens, but we have a situation we keep talking about, that these mistakes are deliberately made in the region. Thousands of people who have lost refugee status in Serbia have returned to Croatia and, as you know, cannot be included in obtaining documents because they use these kinds of problems to change their identity and not to be issued documents, not to recognise citizenship, do not sign up for work. So the repercussion of these mistakes is huge. That is why it is extremely important to show on the case of our citizen, here in Serbia, in central Serbia, that where a decision is to be made more important is reason and existing documentation and goodwill, rather than a computer error or change in the way of judgment. On this basis, we will also be able to show to all countries in the region how quickly the matter of concrete citizens is dealt with with with with with with with with well-will. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12848	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12849	Honorable MPs, respected Madam Chairman, Serbia's public is being told very confusingly and even contradictoryly about the flow of both political and technical dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. When it comes to technical dialogue, you hardly have any information about it, although it is ongoing. I had the opportunity, two weeks ago, in the same form of asking for information and explanations to ask questions about the conclusions of the customs agreement with Pristina, where revenue from goods heading north to Kosovo would turn out to be going to Pristina, not to some independent account, as our public has been informed. Only illustrations work, but I will focus more on political dialogue. The last few days, we've had very different statements about how he's going and what his phases and results are now like. The Prime Minister himself said shortly after the dialogue, on the fourth night and on March 5th, that the dialogue on the matter had stalled and that there was no progress. Two days later, he said that progress has been made and that the Albanian side, Pristina, has accepted some elements of the proposal from our platform, mentioning that the Albanian side has accepted the Assembly, executive bodies, an institutional network of Serbian autonomy in Kosovo, but now it is a matter of discussing competencies. This statement is contrary to the one he gave two days ago, which is that there is no progress. This is just one illustration of this confusion of the public, and the contradiction in the public appearance of our officials, and it really needs to be interrupted. About that, I'm going to ask a question. On the other hand, we had a statement from the president of the state a few days ago, when he was in Egypt, where he said in an interview for Egyptian television that Serbia accepts the institutions of Pristina, that Serbia accepts the president of Kosovo, the assembly and the government of Kosovo, but that in return it requires Kosovo to accept the institutions of self-government or autonomy of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The question is raised, of course, where does the president come from now with such an idea that Serbia can accept it, on what document does it officially, unless it is Ahtisaari's plan and Kosovo's constitution? The institutions Serbia is reportedly supposed to accept operate only on these two documents. Under the Constitution of Serbia, no, but not according to an internationally valid document, especially under Resolution 1244. These are the statements that can really confuse the public and make a kind of mess about it, and I am sure there are a lot of people in Serbia who follow or follow closely what is happening in Brussels and what is happening in this regard. So what would be necessary at this point is for our officials to clarify this public - opinion aspect of this whole problem. that they speak of him or keep quiet and say nothing, with some claim that the conversations are secret, discreet, and that it is not the time to speak of them, or to report to the public truthfully. Let them choose one of these two ways. This middle, which is now functioning, is very counterproductive and is causing great doubt. That's why I would ask the government or the Prime Minister to answer one single question. It will be so simple that they will be able to answer yes or no. Therefore, in a very clear way, not to confuse public opinion. That question is next. In their opinion, according to their plan, according to Serbia's platform, according to how they negotiate and what they stand for in this dialogue, the issue remains open and is sought for answers. Will Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, if all of this is achieved, therefore in an optimistic version of the government's population, be citizens of Kosovo or Serbian citizens? This question can be answered either positively or negatively, and we really insist that the simple question be answered in a simple way, that we, as MPs, get a notice about it, and that the public is informed of what it is. That's what Serbs in Kosovo are most interested in, at the very end of the line. They don't even care about the degree of autonomy, because they know it wouldn't happen. It is known, hypothetically, that Thaci accepts it, he will not implement it. They are only interested in whether they will remain as citizens of Serbia or as citizens of Kosovo. I ask that you answer this question in a decade, clearly and briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12850	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12851	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I would ask the Republic Government to do its job and resolute ministers to do their job, to respond to the MPs when they ask them a parliamentary question. I think it's a very important obligation for all of you in the Republic Government. I would like to say that the DS is expressing a protest, given that all the questions raised by our MPs, since the beginning of this government, we have received only 10% of the response from the resolution ministers. I ask – what do these resolution ministers do if they do not rule their matter or perhaps wait for Vukic to give them the answer to the questions asked? One of my parliamentary questions, which I asked two weeks ago... The chairman, I'd like to ask you, is that there are a lot of MPs in the O.R., but I can't hear myself. The question I asked on behalf of the DS Parliament Club is about the safety of milk. We didn't get an answer about what kind of milk we were drinking. We received a variety of colorful lies from the Republic government, different comments from the threat from Minister Knezevic that milk is safe, that it spreads panic from the DS to the health minister's comment that citizens take milk at their risk. This is one of the biggest affairs since the start of parliamentaryism in Serbia, because any affair can come and go, but this affair when the health of citizens in Serbia is threatened cannot be closed so easily. Last week, we sought the responsibility of Prime Minister Knezevic for a series of bad moves in concealing that a toxic substance exists in milk, that it exists in high quantities. We are now asking to make it clear which of the members of the republican government voted to raise the poison threshold in milk to a level of 0.5. We are looking for the names of all ministers who raised their hand to have Serbian citizens drink poisoned milk, to drink milk containing toxic matter at 0.5. We are looking for these names to demand the responsibility of the entire Republic government. The government does not have the legitimacy to lead Serbian citizens, as it has dared to raise the level of toxic matter in milk and endanger the health of Serbian citizens. I understand that this republican government, when it voted on milk, had no Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, I'm sorry, I mean the Deputy Prime Minister, was not at the vote then, so when he returned from the United Arab Emirates, he annulled that decision and announced that he would return to the level of 0.05. On behalf of the DS, I ask you, do you in that government know how to think or do you have to wait for Alexander Wolf? Do you now, when in England, need you to call upon the Republic Government or, if you call it, not to undo those decisions you made wrongly? Once again, Serbia has unfortunately become a warehouse of poisoned milk from all over the region. Serbia, unfortunately, has created a milk tank with a dose of 0.5 in order to protect the Serbian peasant. What are you gonna do with that milk? Are you going to keep it in the shelves of Serbia's store, or are you going to destroy it? I am asking on behalf of the MP club for a clear answer on this issue, to address the aflatoxin issue once and for all in the interest of the Serbian citizens. We have repeatedly repeated that this is not a policy, however, running away from the right answer, hiding the results from the citizens of Serbia, you have deceived our nation, you have deceived our citizens. On behalf of the DS, I am telling the entire republican government that there is no longer the legitimacy to lead the citizens of Serbia, since she has dared to raise the threshold of the toxic substance in milk and to convince us that it is normal. In the end, I will announce the results that are official in front of the republican government, but also on these results, I am putting a question mark, that out of the 48 milk samples tested, 33 are harmful, that two milk samples are over and your dose that you have allowed Serbian children to drink - 0.5. Finally, I call once again on the Republic government to finally replace Minister Knezevic, to replace all irresponsible ministers who raised their hand for such a high dose of toxic substance in the milk that our children drink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12852	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to ask for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12853	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, on the basis of Article 205. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will ask the Government a question. According to the Competition Protection Act, the Competition Protection Commission, established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is required once a year by the end of February for the previous year to submit a report to the Assembly on the state of affairs under its jurisdiction. Since media estimates are that Serbia's retail market has a monopoly, I ask when will this issue be on parliament's agenda? A brief explanation. In Serbia, prices in retail are evident, and recently from the National Consumer Organisation, we have heard the assessment that there is also a cartel arrangement for large trade chains. It is claimed that an increase in the number of traders contributes to the increase of the goods range, but as I can see, not to the downfall of prices. Banks are also shown to keep pace with the rise in prices of their services, with extremely high interest rates. A well-organised economic environment is a basic condition for economic development and investor arrival, and I therefore believe that this issue should also be addressed by the Government. I'd like to add the next one. The other day, I got information that AutoCommand is likely to start in half a year, if not by the end of the year, building two other major malls. The question arises – if centres like the large trade chains we have in downtown Belgrade, in the new and old town, what will happen to this small and medium-sized business? All those hundreds of shops that exist in the circle of building these autocommand centers will disappear, they will close their stores. I believe that the Ministry of Trade and the Government should take this problem very seriously, as the aim of bringing foreign investors is to create new jobs, hire and increase productivity, as well as reduce the prices of products that would be available to citizens. The second parliamentary question I ask Mr. Finance and Economy Minister - is Serbia's announced national re-industrious plan envisions the engagement of domestic investors and what encouraging measures are being envisaged? The explanation -- it is evident that Serbia has given very tempting conditions for foreign investors, however, I believe that domestic investors must also have favourable investment conditions, as well as foreign investors. Serbia cannot develop only on foreign investment, because, above all, foreign investors aim to create as much profit as possible and bring it out of our country. We have a good part of the example of domestic investors who exist and who work under unequal conditions, who reinvest their profits in the further opening of their plants and new jobs. What else would I like to point out? The risk that exists is obvious and depends on which type of investor comes. We had one number of those who were so-called. Flying investors. They flew into Serbia quickly and through certain laws, lobbyists, privatised many factories, destroyed and resold equipment as old iron and left Serbia. If we could attract those who come to build greenfield investments and have long-term plans, that would be very, very good for Serbia. Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I have a proposal and I'd like to ask my colleagues if they could have a little quiet. I suggest that tomorrow be our ladies' day off, and that's March 8th. I'd like it to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12854	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Nebojsa Stefanovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the proposing representative, Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Dejan Popović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Dejan Trifunović and Petar Stanojevic, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection and Aleksandra Babić, Head of the Department of Zoran Ibrović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, a proposal to supplement the agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. I ask you once again to establish the quorum, since we need most of the total number of MPs. I've received official information that the board is in progress, so I'd like the board members to come and give the quorum, please. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitian Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Belgrade Railway Station Project Centre - Phase 1), which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 January 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 121 MPs voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly adopted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 February 2013. A year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 120 MPs voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 February 2013. A year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 126 MPs voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 124 MPs voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The vice-president of the Vesna Kovac National Assembly proposed that, in an urgent procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 121 MPs voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2013. A year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 123 MPs voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Defence Co-operation, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2013. A year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 123 MPs voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation against income tax, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2013. A year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 125 MPs voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates on mutual incentive and investment protection, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2013. A year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 121 MPs voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The United Regions of Serbia's MP group has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the draft decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 March 2013, with a correction of 5 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 126 MPs voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 January 2013. Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12855	Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have proposed that the proposed agenda of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be complemented in 2013 and that consideration be given to the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Namely, in Article 190. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the possibility that the municipality, in accordance with the law, will take care to meet the needs of citizens in the field of education, culture, health and social protection, children's protection, sports and physical culture and to carry out other tasks by law. Among other things, on the basis of the Constitution itself, there is the possibility that the municipality, among other things, will arrange and provide the scholarship of students and students. However, in the current Law on Local Self-Government, this is not explicitly stated. In this context, it is proposed to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government that Article 20, which regulates the jurisdiction of local self-government, is added after point 16a), which reads – regulates and secures the scholarship of students and students. We all know that certain environments in Serbia have been developed differently and that in certain local self-governments there is a special need to stimulate a particular category of students and students, that there may be sufficient number of those with a degree in medical school, to support top students from that local community who have, for example. average grade in accredited colleges above eight or above nine. Why not allow every local self-government in Serbia to tie up and best youth and youth to the local environment in a certain way and allow the local environment to wash them out depending on the needs of each local environment, that the local environment itself prescribes conditions under which the best students and students could be scholarshipd? It is in this sense that the bill aims to achieve what is provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which may not be explicitly stated in the Law on Local Self-Government. It is precisely when a local self-government graduates the best students and students, for example with an average score of over nine, that there is a possibility that those involved in the audit of the financial operations of local self-government to say – no, not in the Law on Local Self-Government, you do not have the right to finance those children the best. In that sense, I suggest that the agenda be completed and that only this change be decided here on the tide.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12856	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. 21 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vladimir Ilic, acting on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), paragraphs 2 and 2. 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure proposed to carry out a joint principled uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Effective Energy Use; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Natural Gas supplied by the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia; Joint Review on a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of a State Export Credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Guarantee Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitan Fund for Arab Economic Development (Project of the Railway Station of the Centre – Phase I); Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab States of Serbia on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Does MP Vladimir Ilic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. 122 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. 123 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013 as a whole. Dn e v n ir e d : 1. Proposal for a law on efficient use of energy. 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on supplies of natural gas from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia. 3. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of a state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. 5. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitian Fund for Arab Economic Development (Project of the Belgrade Centre – Phase I railway station). Six. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Seven. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on co-operation in the area of defence. 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes. Nine. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates on mutual incentive and investment protection. Ten. A proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group. 11. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by Vice-President of the National Assembly Vesna Kovac. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws under points 1 and 2 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that it is appropriate to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've received a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on: Proposal for a law on efficient use of energy and a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on natural gas deliveries from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia. Does Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection want a word? Yeah. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12857	Dear MPs, there are two documents ahead. A very important system law, the law on efficient use of energy and, of course, a draft law to confirm an agreement between the government of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on gas delivery over the next 10 years. It's been a long time since there's been a law on efficient energy use, and I'd say he's been cooking for two or three years. I am sorry that it was not brought before, and I think it is a very important law, and given that Serbia's energy policy has several priorities, and the first priority is just to increase energy efficiency. This is certainly not possible if we do not have, above all, the law on efficient use of energy, and the law will give rise to certain sublaws, they will be 29 and, of course, the budget fund for increasing energy efficiency. What I would point out here briefly, of course, is that it's clear to all of us that we're a country that and how much energy it is and how much energy it is that we need to settle a few things with this law. It's to try first of all to reduce the final energy consumption. We also made a commitment by the first energy efficiency action plan to reduce by 9% by 2018 compared to 2008, to this way and by this law and everything we do to improve conditions, i.e. the environment. Given that about 76% of energy emissions are right from energy to the environment, not to mention sustainable development, that we are not saying that this law should allow us to increase the competitiveness of our economy. In that sense, I find it just as important as the Energy Act that we have. This law came not only from international obligations, as it is often said, that this is the first thing why we adopt laws and certain directives that we certainly want to meet and follow. But this law came from the need not to be a country that, by such a trend, will have an increase in energy import dependence and be a country that will have a situation that can be praised for rationally managing energy, but not just on the side of production that is often talked about, but in the part called foreign consumption. Serbia today has such energy efficiency indicators that tell us that we are two to three times more energy-intensive, or inefficient than the countries in the environment, compared to the EU countries five to six times. I'm not going to speak now and list the directives. I am sure there will be opportunities in this principle debate to discuss each of these directives as well as everything this law needs to bring to Serbia. I will say that I sincerely hope that this law will be passed and that any good suggestion or good suggestion will probably be accepted. The second document ahead of you, as I said, is an agreement between the government of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on gas delivery over the next 10 years. We had a previous agreement that expired in 2010 and after talks by the previous government this agreement was signed with this new government in October 2012. Meanwhile, I think it was last week, an annual gas delivery treaty was signed for 2013, which was of course signed by a public company, and this agreement is of course an agreement between the two governments. Thank you very much. I'll answer all your questions and dilemmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12858	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12859	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, since this is a very important law, I see by passing such a law as one big chance for Serbia. We from the newly formed ZZS parliamentary club will support this law, by making several amendments and immediately saying that the amendments relating to professional terms and concepts are in question. So what the profession has passed on to us as its intentions and its wishes, and what is not through public debate and the adoption process, i.e. the alignment and the putting forward of this bill, we have heard and passed through the amendments, and I hope that they will enter and become an integral part of this law. We ask that this law be applied immediately after it is, hopefully, adopted. According to the data that we possess most importantly, it is that we are a completely energy-inefficient state and that we need an emergency measure and we are asking that, if possible, and I believe that it is, we are going with strong incentives towards households, and right away. Why waste time? So we ask that individual users, i.e. individual consumers, or individuals, primarily through the subsidisation of credit with banks get the opportunity to enter immediately into the process of isolation, and the process of replacing the carpentry. I will try to speak with extremely simple terms, so that all our citizens understand what it is that the MP club of the ZZ is looking for. We ask for the billion and 100m euros needed to be spent during this construction season, to isolate and change the carpentry of all buildings in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that's much money for a country. On the other hand, we will immediately make a 30 percent savings through current consumption, and in seven years we count on this investment to return. I don't see a better business move at this point that this government can do, in order to achieve several important goals at the same time. The first goal is to start production, all the insulation materials and all the carpentry are completely domestic products, that's what can be produced on our market. The other thing is, those materials need someone to install, and I don't see a better way to hire some construction industry. The third thing, we will reduce the huge external trade deficit, because the fact that the basic stake in the external trade deficit is currently in Serbia are oil derivatives and gas, as imports, so I believe that this will also achieve an increase in GDP. When we do all these things practically, I really believe that we can do a lot for the citizens of Serbia already this year. I see that this law provides that the establishment of a budget fund is planned for next year. I also understand the situation we're living in, the crisis, but I think we could seriously consider starting action right now and making use of this period from March to September, this construction season to do as much work as possible. In this way, we will reach ordinary people, increase awareness among citizens, especially in Serbia and the fact that 900,000 households in Serbia are now using electricity for heating and heating will make them decide on alternative sources and, of course, that through the transfer, one through the transfer, electricity consumption to the remote heating system, on the one hand, and on the other hand through the incentive to credit our economy, and for the isolation and replacement of carpentry in Serbia, there is much that can be done for Serbia's economy. This is not just energy policy, this is economic and monetary, and I expect a strong and connected action from several ministries. The ZZS Parliament Club considers it necessary to make a series of amendments to the regulations, a series of regulations that follow the application of this law, and as regards, above all, the amendments to the rules relating to the housing assembly of residential buildings, as one of the essential brakes in the implementation of this project, I really believe that this is a great opportunity for the Republic of Serbia and the MP club of the ZZS, that, in the day of voting, of course, with the adoption of certain amendments, it will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12860	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12861	We agree that it's a system law, related to a few things you've listed, and especially to grants. So, the fund to be set up, the budget fund under this law, it will start working in 2014, but will be prepared in the course of the year to make it work. Of course, unlike all other funds, there will be no board of directors, and it will be one expert body with one account and where you will be able to see at any moment what funds and how money is spent, so that we do not get into the situation as we did in the previous period regarding various funds. Energy efficiency is something Serbia had to deal with much earlier and, of course, it can never be the result at once. We had the Energy Efficiency Agency which was up to 2000, so it was re-founded in 2002 and the results that the Agency gave are embarrassing, because energy efficiency hasn't improved in Serbia in ten years, and we could have been in a situation that we didn't have to give 2.5 billion euros for imports of energy, but we could have done a little differently through energy efficiency. What was, was, we have the law. What you mentioned for households, the purpose of this law is to specifically define the place of consumption, how we will use energy rationally and efficiently, and I am now informing you that in the case of heat that is significant consumers, very inefficient, but from the point of view of households, according to this law, in 2015, everyone will have to move to measurement by consumption, and in the course of this year the state will call a central tender for the purchase of calories that will be placed in each building and which, and the money for that purchase of calories, will be provided by the state. In that sense, I support that we have one part of the subsidized loans, and whether the fund will go through co-financing or full funding, we will see depending on the project itself. I think I've answered, and as far as law enforcement is concerned, it's starting to apply eight days from the day it's adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12862	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12863	Today's Energy Act is one of the most important laws that every country must have and to settle this issue that, with the production of food and agriculture, takes the most place, depends on the survival of one community, its economy and its production. I must say that this law has come before us and the MPs from one school, a workshop that has existed here for decades, which is that it's written in one language that, if it's not very good, and I keep reminding, that the standard of good law is ten more commands, that it's possible that in a very short, summed up and for the citizens a clear way of putting the essence of the question on which to reach an agreement and make a smart and good decision. In this law, it's in one article, I don't know exactly which one was, it's a term, and it's written what certain expressions are going to be found in the law. It was also done in the Law on the Encouragement of the Development of Agriculture and Rural Development, and I said it at one session, but it doesn't matter, it's not accepted. Why? Because, my dear fellow MPs, there are voices in this house, and there are no arguments, and that is why decisions are made. For a little while, Srdjan Mikovic made a proposal to put one, in the agenda, in my opinion, a very important smart good question. He only got 11 votes. If that same question had come from perhaps a majority parliamentary group, I am confident that it would have passed. I call upon you to discuss and agree, because we here agree to take care of whether something like me or any other MP exposes and proposes acceptable or not acceptable, and that is why we determine ourselves. When it comes to the law itself, I'd have to say the following. First, Article 65 in 34 speaks of renewable energy sources, absolutely inappropriate to the importance of renewable energy sources. I've been a peasant journalist for 65 years, but I've traveled to both Nordic and other countries, rich countries that have even warmed up milk that must have cooled before transporting to the dairy town to warm up their houses, which have brought such standards and materials to seal windows, doors, floors and ceilings, that they've reached the standard of "zero energy house", houses that don't depend on the power grid at all, but they use the use of us all to breathe 37 degrees of air, and it's enough for us to sit in a house in a room of 24 degrees, etc. So this issue must be given much more attention. I'll give you the information. Serbia built a biodiesel factory in Shid in 2008. The factory stands still, preserved because earlier governments did not make two important simple decisions. First, to adopt a rule on mandatory blending of biodiesel in classic fossil diesel and number two, which is not a decision to lift excise duty and make that type of fuel attractive and accessible. I want to say, honourable MPs, this community of people living in this area called Serbia must develop energy awareness... (President: Time. I'm sorry, I have another word to say. (President: Just finish the sentence, as your time is up. ) Thus, energy awareness and that we are all obliged and to contribute to the production and production of benefits and in a reasonable way to spend. I propose that those provisions, from Articles 59 to 63, be entered into at every kilowatt in the next correction, and these, before 2014, one euro cent will be used to use in a special account for funding, for example, a installer for receiving electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12864	Thank you, Mr. Trnavci. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12865	Thank you. I agree with you that you should speak a simple and understandable language. In that term, it's not a term, it's a term meaning, it's a directive that we simply have to put into a law like this. At the same time, we prepared a brochure to make it easier to understand the law and what you are saying and it will be shared to the citizens, and I am referring to the last thing you have talked about, to the awareness of citizens and to the general education of citizens about what it means to be energy efficient. After all, how much this advantage brings to every man in this country, either as a household member, or as someone who has a company and a company, and thus increases his product competitiveness. When you talk about Articles 65 and at all about renewable energy sources, I need to remind you that this is a law that speaks among other things about renewable energy sources. Through the budget fund, we encourage those who produce renewable energy, energy for themselves. On the very problem of renewable energy sources, I must admit that much has been done in the past few months and since the change of the Energy Law on energy licenses, four new regulations regarding renewable energy, the National Action Plan for Renewable Energy, which was adopted and sent to the energy community, I would say that for the first time we have prepared an absolutely complete field for renewable energy sources. Since you mentioned this factory, what is waiting for the plant is the biofuel act, which should be finished during this year where there is then a commitment that 10% of biofuels must be fitted, practical fuel must be spent in Serbia since 2020. The factory as a factory, it looked at what was profitable, and it was not worth it to produce biofuels, so it now deals with the production of oil during the previous period. In that sense, I agree with you that incentives should be made for anyone who can produce any biofuel or simply produce energy from renewable energy sources. I hope I've responded to your dilemmas. (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the place: I did not finish. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12866	Mr. Trnavcievich, you can sign up because you have the right to replica if you want to, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12867	Thank you. I'm going to take this opportunity to say that in the area, two days ago, I called the president of the municipality of Kursumli and asked if there was a full accumulation of villages? No, I don't. The water of Toplice and this summer will go away, and in the fields there will be droughts. It could be used partly for less energy production and irrigation. With regard to the construction of these power detectors from the stables, I suggest that it is also kept in mind and that favourable loans and loans are encouraged by people to use that source, to get electricity that is of course not cheap as classic or from power plants, but nevertheless, it is renewable. Every year, every day, those cows are dunging, there's a barn that can get methane and burn. In other words, I would like to see more work done, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, on the expansion and creation of that energy consciousness, which, I have convinced myself, exists in Denmark, exists in the Nordic countries. I filmed and showed that they were also in the slaughterhouses, the heat when the pigs also exploited and had less consumption of classical energy, etc. That's what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12868	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slavica Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12869	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs and MPs, the respected minister with his associates, the energy when the draft law on effective use is adopted and if implemented consistently means that we will actually use our natural resources and national wealth with a lot of attention and rationality. It is very important that this bill is also from an economic, financial point of view and from the point of view of repairing our relationship to the natural environment in which we live. If we don't take care enough of this, nature has the power to retaliate the blows that are more immeasurably powerful and destructive for mankind. From an economic point of view, without rational energy management, which is the most significant economic resource, we cannot be competitors on the world market. In domestic contexts, the energy management plan provides an opportunity to save and direct the necessary funds in the reconstruction of technical and technological facilities. The energy opportunities in Serbia are now illustrated by data that have been reported for many years by our prominent experts in the field of technical sciences, which is that energy sources are being spent irrationally, that electricity consumption is three to four times higher than in Europe. There is no reliable data on energy efficiency at state level or on industrial enterprises. When it comes to the causes of such a situation, I will list some of them - outdated technology in industry, ageing technologies in the production of electricity and heat, insufficient organisation of the economy, incomplete legal regulations, age of residential and rolling stock, a small number of institutions and laboratories to control the efficiency of devices, equipment and materials. The European Community has set three major targets by 2020: an increase in energy efficiency by 20%, an increase in the share of renewable energy sources by 20%, a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 20%. So we need changes in technology, in behaviour and in the structure of the economy. There must be a system of strategies, laws, sublaws, measures and standards. Energy efficiency is not just a technical issue, but a matter of macro and micro equipment, training and organisation. The proposed law provides a good investment framework to address all these problems. In addition to the strategy and action plan, it is the basis for establishing a system of energy efficiency. The bill sets out the main objectives, which are, above all, security in energy supply, competitiveness of the economy, reduction of pollution and responsible behaviour towards energy in production, transmission, distribution and energy consumption. Plans and implementation programmes at the republican and local level have also been set up. Powers and duties of the government, ministries, companies, authorities of the state administration, public services, AP, municipalities and cities have been established. The planned goal of saving energy that will be prescribed by the government must be realised. Therefore, all participants in the energy chain are obliged to have the necessary number of energy managers to prepare energy efficiency plans and programmes, as well as implementation reports, energy advisers, whose duty is to carry out energy audits and audits. The draft law provides for conditions which may be appointed as energy managers and advisers, under which conditions and subject to mandatory training of issuing licences and credentials. One part of the bill refers to the mandatory labelling of the products to be determined by the Government. The manufacturer’s obligation is to indicate the energy efficiency of the product, to draw up a list of data and technical documentation, which the supplier must supply with the product. The obligation to conduct an energy review of the facilities has been established, as well as the specific obligations of investors in each newly built facility. The specific section of the draft law prescribes minimum energy efficiency requirements in the production, transmission and distribution of electricity and heat energy, transport and distribution of natural gas. The minimum requirements will be prescribed by the government on a proposal from the minister. The energy permit for the construction of new or reconstruction of existing facilities can only be issued if, with the request, the energy efficiency of the plant and the energy transmission system are submitted. In the case of measurement and consumption, the applicable tariff system for remote heating services and the obligation of the local authorities to include the calculation in the price of the actual handover of heat. Distributors are required to ensure the installation of the measuring devices submitted to the amount of electricity and heat and natural gas. During the period of heating, the customer must be informed each month of prices per element and energy consumption per month with a comparative consumption review for the previous year and the same month of the previous year. It is mandatory to control the boiler heating system, air conditioning, as well as to draw up control reports, which are delivered to the control officer and the competent ministry. In financing it is important to say that the prescribed resources include the republican budget, the AP budget and the units of local self-government are certainly EU funds, loans and donations. All resources will be recorded in the specific budget fund. The government shall adopt an annual programme of financing activities in accordance with the strategy, programme and planning documents. The funds will be distributed on the basis of a public competition under the conditions laid down in Article 61. It's a bill of law. The funds must be used in a dedicated manner and within the time limits of the contract. It's impossible to talk about all the technical aspects of this bill, but I think it's important for our citizens to hear all this. This bill undoubtedly takes over the already established standards and practices of those countries that have been taking care of efficient energy management for many years, and that is good. Since our country's energy is of international importance, we will also have international support, both financially and projectably, which is very important to us. Serbia has the potential to consistently implement this law, especially when it comes to the use of renewable energy sources and more efficient energy technologies, the use of biomass, small hydropower plants and multi-purpose hydropower facilities, geothermal sources and, of course, solar energy. The MPs of the SDPS Group will vote in favour of this bill, as this law belongs to a group of most important system laws and is of great importance both to our economy and to our reputation in the world when it comes to efforts to reduce pollution of nature and the environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12870	The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12871	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a time of increasingly irrational use of energy and the increasing capacity of energy sources, raises the question of the need for a more efficient use of energy. Therefore, the PUPS believes that this bill on efficient energy use is very important because they address energy issues. That is why the PUPS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. From the first industrial revolution to today, about 50% of all available energy resources have been spent on the ground. By 2050, some 10 billion inhabitants will live on the ground. People will have to use energy rationally, and the price will be much higher than it is today and certainly in a smaller amount. Analysis as an important segment of this efficiency is very important. Efficient energy use involves all major forms of energy, with a special prominent role in electricity, natural gas, heat energy, and, if necessary, car fuels, other liquid and gas fuels, renewable energy sources, as well as drinking and technological water. In order to rationalise consumption and management of energy costs, it is necessary to analyse energy consumption and costs. The energy review and the necessary measures of energy consumption and heat loss appear to be a recommendation for efficient use of energy, as well as for education of staff management, as well as for the population in the part of energy efficiency. Energy costs represent an increasingly significant part of the total cost of business and life. The cause on the one hand – the increase in energy and energy prices due to objective reasons and on the other hand the growing standard and environmental protection that conditions the use of more modern and expensive energy plants. The international community represents the the thesis that man's irresponsible operation is the reason for climate change, so radical energy reduction schemes, greenhouse gas reductions and increased use of renewable energy sources are applied for the next period. As a member of the international community and future EU member, the Republic of Serbia will establish legal obligations and other financial and administrative rules that will meet the objectives defined by global and European agreements. For each plant and institution, it is necessary to set up a cost management system, measure the relative efficiency of energy consumption in individual facilities and processes, and to permanently operate on energy costs. The growth of energy costs can also have a significant impact on the possible increase in safety requirements, standards of life and increasingly numerous and more sophisticated IT equipment. The application of the energy efficiency law should directly affect the reduction of annual energy costs and thus the control of consumption and avoidance of cost inefficientness, as well as the direction of future reconstructions of investments in those parts of the facility or facilities in which the maximum savings potential is recognised. The introduction of mandatory energy certification of buildings will initiate the development and implementation of energy audits to determine the efficiency, i.e. ineffectiveness of energy management and the adoption of recommendations to increase energy efficiency. Serbia is going through the period of opening the energy market and getting to know its rules is an important part of the process. Active market participation opens up the possibility of achieving more favourable prices and conditions of energy delivery. The prerequisite for this is an analysis of the current way of energy consumption and the relevant costs, as well as the definition of dynamics and characteristics of consumption. The final goal is to train to predict the necessary dynamics of energy supply in the future. Activities in rationalising consumption and managing energy costs in a wider approach come from structuring energy consumers, depending on their own characteristics and how electricity is used. In this context, the following consumer target groups should be considered: public sector, industry, traffic and others. Analysis of current consumption and energy costs is the basis of all future estimates and analyses, i.e. the basis for tendering and negotiations with suppliers. It is necessary to implement for each form of energy, preferably a multi-annual approach. The analysis should cover seasonal, weekly and daily characteristics of consumption and all specificities affecting the consumption or costs of electricity and heat energy as the most important segments, i.e. primary forms of energy of gas fuels, natural natural natural natural natural gas, liquid oil gas and other liquid fuels, all types of oils and other, solid coal fuels and the like, fuel for fuel transport, diesel, according to the necessary liquid oil gas and other forms of energy, renewable energy sources and other. Energy review should cover characteristic facilities so that all energy consumption categories are recognised. On the basis of the energy review, other than the general analysis, the causes of carrying out measurements of electricity consumption or other forms of energy shall be defined, if necessary. For electricity consumption, the load diagrams shall be analysed in particular for the purpose of more accurate insight into the electricity consumption structure. For heat consumption, all energy consumption, consumption and losses are analysed and are modelled in periodic consumption and load. The results of energy reviews, the necessary measures, measurements and comparisons with best practice will be the basis for creating recommendations for efficient use of energy. The recommendations should be based on the economic and financial indicators of certain measures. In order to determine realistic and cost-effective measures, after establishing an existing state of energy consumption and supply, realistically foresee the development of energy consumption and demand, in particular for electricity and heat for heating and cooling. The current cost monitoring practice for energy often shows inadequateness in response to the dynamics of the energy market. It is therefore necessary to monitor, in addition to the costs, the very dynamics of consumption. Taking into account the relevant operating parameters and possible specific requirements, the proposal for a model for systematic monitoring of energy consumption and energy costs with a continuous budget and a demonstration of key business parameters should be drawn up. The training of staff and businesses is very important in this area. Efficient use of energy implies adequate education of responsible staff. During the application of the law, key topics need to be set for the successful implementation of the objectives of realisation and cost monitoring and the reduction of energy consumption. Accordingly, a programme of staff and management education should be implemented for adequate presentation and effective application of the law in the efficient use of energy. When we talk about this law and the efficient use of energy, there is a question that all possibilities exist for the essential application of this law? In 2008, a study on the feasibility of the gas power plant, i.e. the cogenerative power plant in Nis, was commissioned. The request was to make a study for power plant capacity of up to 150 megawatts. The study was created by the American agency World Pastos. The study was funded by USAID, and it cost $450,000. In the course of the study, it was concluded that the Niš gas power plant should be 450 megawatt capacity for electricity production and 150 watts for heat production. The study specified that the heat released in electricity production is used to produce heat and used for central heating of business space in Nis. For the sake of illustration, it should be stressed that currently two heat products of 250 megawatts of heat energy. So one such power plant would contribute greatly to the needs of the city and to the citizens of Nis. This would reduce the price of heating. In February 2011, the study was submitted to the Ministry of Energy. I don't know how far it got with that study. The construction of such a power plant would cost 274m euros and the power plant would use gas at 78,500 cubic metres per hour, which would mean that part of the South Stream gas would be used in large quantities. That is why it is necessary to plan to join Nis and Southeast Serbia in the South Stream. The remaining wide gas consumption in Nis would all be 2% of this amount of gas used for this power plant. Since the issue is very important, I have information that Republika Srpska was planning to build these two gas plants. The question for the minister is whether the construction of a gas power plant in Nis is planned on the basis of a study. As for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Natural Gas Delivery, I would say only a few sentences in this part. From Article 1 of the natural gas delivery from the Russian Federation, as the minister initially said, an agreement was signed from 2012 to 2021 for the next period. In Article 3. Jugorozgas continues to work towards building a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, exploiting them and selling natural gas to consumers in the Republic of Serbia. In Article 6, the Serbian side will not impose any restrictions or ban on investments by Russian businesses. This is a chance for Russian investors to see their interest and build a gas power plant in Nis and Nis, apart from obtaining one such system, has long-term heat-supervised energy for its needs, on the one hand and safe gas delivery on the other hand and for Nis and for Southeast Serbia. It is therefore necessary to make a connection in the South Stream to allow the supply of sufficient quantities of gas to the gas power plant and the remaining consumption of Southeast Serbia. The PUPS parliamentary group, following this debate and discussions in particular and possible improvements to the law through amendments, will support these two laws in the voting day and will vote for the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12872	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12873	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed minister, ladies and gentlemen, the unification of the first two points I don't think you should have done, because these are two important points and both dots deserve a lot of time of discussion, so I wouldn't support it at all. I have another grudge. As for the law on efficient use of energy, the law has long been in preparation, and co-workers of the Regional Ministry of Energy have participated in this preparation. I think it would be nice and correct if you invited some of their representatives to this session to be here with us during the discussion. There'd probably be questions for them, too. We don't have a law on efficient use of energy, and we haven't done anything new on the subject lately. As for the developed West, they've gone far ahead of us, I guarantee it. I've been watching the situation for over 25 years, and I think we should learn from them, because they're much better than we are. I remember, even though it was a long time ago, I watched a show on TV, I think it was just the Canadians they were doing. They took one small bus, equipped with all the necessary instruments and one team of experienced engineers, two, three, one younger man who went along with them to learn. They went from factory to factory, from company to company. They were paid from the budget, and their services were free. Their task was to identify these various shortcomings on the site of companies, to point to those engineers who work there, how they can reduce the consumption of natural gas, how they can reduce electricity consumption, how they can create an appropriate ratio of reactive and active power with electric currents, compressors, loss of air cooling machines. In some places, they suggested, for example. to make the windows on the roof halls to make the lighting more favourable. They moved the lights somewhere. In various ways, they have helped people with their experience and their advice on how energy can be used more efficiently. I'd like to make an example out of Germany. There those people who allow their buildings to install photovoltaic systems on the roof to produce green energy power. They make a 10-year contract with a power distributor and take a loan from the bank. That electricity they're producing, all those assets are going to cover the loan. After 10 years, this system is completely paid off and that system remains with it. He'll probably still be able to work for five years or maybe longer, depending. We can't follow such examples because we don't have the funds, we don't have the money to invest. But there are examples like that. Some things can be done with a lot less money. For example, why don't the Ministry of Energy make a short commercial on TV, of 10 seconds? This is usually done in the west, in the form of a cartoon or animated film for children. The theme would be to turn off the lighting when unnecessary, to turn off computers, to turn off electrical devices that are not currently needed. Of course, that way we wouldn't save a lot of energy the next day, but that would affect raising young people, especially children, and after a while, after a few years, it would give great benefits, certainly. There's a lot of energy being lost and scattered in us, partly because of the human factor, partly because of the old plants that are no longer in good shape. There are no thermal insulation buildings, the ceilings aren't isolated, the windows are inappropriate. It's in a lot of cases. Of course, there are exceptions. The district heating system has huge losses, almost all cities. The pipelines aren't well isolated. For example, in winter when there's snow and you walk down the street, then you can see clearly where the pipes are laid, because the snow over here melts. In the district heating system, boilers are old and inadequate. Some are 10, 20, 30, even there are cases that boilers are 40 years old. We know that's the case in Senti. The heating of flats is also a big problem, because these people can't even affect energy consumption, or savings, nor are they interested in paying per square metre, and if they're warm, then they open windows and solve their problem. The road and rail traffic system is the same in a sad state. Trucks are old, buses are old, even locomotives, and all these machines spend more fuel than they should. There's a lot of problems, but I still think there's a lot of problems in people's heads, at least with us. He's been in fashion lately to buy these so-called. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: One classic 100 watt light bulb can be replaced with a modern 24 watt light bulb or if we invest a little more money, we can even lower to five watts. In this way we saved more than 90% of the electricity in one lamp, i.e. in the lighting of more than 90% of the electricity. But it's all wrong if we put an oil radiator in that room, a quartz oven or a thermoaccumulation furnace, so we plug it into one kilowatt, two kilowatts, three kilowatts or more. Practically, then we made free paint. I mean, as long as the price of electricity is a social factor, we can pass five or ten laws on efficient use of electricity, because that doesn't help us. I failed to say that electricity is the most precious and precious kind of energy and it's the right sin to spend it on heating rooms. There's a lot of trouble in people's heads, I've already said that. It won't contribute to this law or what this government wants to do now. Namely, Elektrovodina wants to turn into an outcast counter, and everything that is good and valuable from that firm, to move to Belgrade. The Dukes knew how to run that company and certainly used energy and distributed energy properly in this way, and I'm not sure that's how it's going to go on. This law on efficient energy use has been being prepared for five, six years. If I'm well informed, two years ago, the same law was, although perhaps under some other name, not important, even in the procedure, but was subsequently withdrawn. Now it's finally finished and it's on the agenda. This law is too bureaucratic. It mainly deals with how to determine the state of energy, i.e. energy efficiency. The owners of objects and businesses know very well how much they pay for energy. They know how much they lose. I mean, first of all, the loss of energy. But the problem is they don't have the funds, they don't have the funds to invest, they don't have the money to change that. This law puts the state in the middle, the role of dictators. Instead, the law should provide a solution to how to address the problem of efficient use of energy. In order to say something good, however, the bright point of this law is the establishment of a budget fund to improve energy efficiency, as this can greatly contribute to resolving these problems. All in all, the LSV law, in this form, cannot, or very hard to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12874	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12875	I have to admit, I'm surprised. You're very contradictory. You first told yourself how much we needed the energy efficiency law. It has been coordinated, among other things, with all the directives, which is what you advocate and everything we really want to do in Serbia. Of course, you're also talking about other things that have absolutely nothing to do with this law, but I will answer it, and then you say you can't accept it. So I'm sorry this time you're not looking at this law like that, that it's really good for our economy, it's good for households, it's good for the citizens of Serbia, but this time you're looking at this law just as politically. But to answer a few of the things you mentioned there. The question of whether or not we should have invited someone from the Regional Ministry of Energy, I must tell you that, in addition to this law, of course, the people of the Secretariat, representatives of other ministries in the government, representatives of public enterprises from the entire energy sector – EPS, ES, Transnafta, etc., representatives of the agency, representatives of local self-government, conferences and cities, and then I believe that this would mean that we should invite them all here. On the other hand, the authority to pass such a law is in the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Republic's jurisdiction. Also, one thing that you mentioned and what I completely agree with you, and that's why we've foreseen this law, which is that citizens themselves, it's simply a change of consciousness in people, have to take care of how they're going to use their energy. On the other hand, the state has to create certain conditions so that people can really behave more efficiently, or rationally, when we talk about energy consumption. This is precisely what we will have a situation where in 2015, Serbian citizens will pay for their heating according to how much they spent. So we're going to have consumption measurements and in this sense, citizens will determine whether they're going to open windows, not, how much they're going to spend, when they're going to spend, when they're going to include that heating, etc. As far as the commercials you're talking about are concerned, I totally agree that there is a population education to be done. But we're pretty burned with all kinds of campaigns, in that sense. A lot of money in the previous period was spent on cleaning Serbia and who knows what it's not about without seeing the results. I agree that education must be. We're going to do it in a public, reviewed way, that it absolutely doesn't cost the state, and that citizens get the right information through certain projects. When you talk about the Elektrovodina, which you mentioned, I completely agree with, among other things, that electricity is electricity, and what is the purpose of this law in the first place? Among other things, we don't use that electricity that much to heat it up. Today in total electricity consumption, when our economy doesn't work, almost 50% of that energy just goes to the household sector, and that's something that needs to be reduced. That means, among other things, that as much as we say we have enough energy and that, on the other hand, if the economy works, we will have a serious problem. Electric energy is the most noble kind of energy and, as you say, the grey is used for heating. On the other hand, some of the things that are trying to do in Serbia's Elektroprivred are, of course, touching the whole country, that is, all its companies, and in that sense, the Elektrovojvodina. But I have to remind you that you can't make that difference if the Dukes knew how to run the Elektrovovod, and the others couldn't manage any other companies. It is a comprehensive system, very important for all of Serbia's Elektrovodina, specifically, to be a company, since I heard it last night in one show, that it will be stopped, that it will not have such powers as it has, etc. What it is for every company director in Serbia's Elektroprivred, is that they will have to behave with due attention and with certain responsibility, which so far has not been shown by the directors, in what is called the company's costs and resources. About how it's run in Vojvodina, I don't need to talk about it at all. Do I have to say that in the previous two years you have an increase in the number of deleted companies by 33%, a fall in entrepreneurs by 6%, a decline in companies by 12%, the number of start-ups has been reduced by 30%, the number of non-equity enterprises has increased from 30% to 47%. Don't tell me you're doing such a good job in Vojvodina. He's obviously in serious trouble. When you speak, at some point, even about the money, as far as I know, according to the laws of the Vojvodina of privatized enterprises, is 50%. Am I right? So 300-400 million certainly won the Vojvodina, in that sense, in the previous period. I believe the time will come for the people of Vojvodina to know where that money went. What I'm trying to tell you is that there's no need to make such a big name about anyone now wanting to do anything bad to one of the companies, one of the five, the Elektrovodini. On the contrary. It is an orderly company. There are problems, as well as in other companies, but we are interested in all companies working well. In that sense, the Elektrovodina works well, because that means that the whole of Serbia's Elektroprivreda will be at a higher level of security, and therefore, to everyone, in that sense, is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12876	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12877	Dear Vice President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's try rationally, or as efficiently as possible to use energy that, I suppose, should exist among us. I must say, at the very beginning, that I am fascinated, in a way, by this enthusiasm that existed, especially with the MPs of the ruling majority, that with so much zeal they support this fight for modern Serbia, for the adoption of European standards, for the introduction of order, for the law that should allow us to behave more effectively, that at any moment we have clear information on how and how much energy we spend, and that everything is done as representatives of the ruling coalition in Serbia, in which citizens cannot know 17 days how much the aflatoxin is in milk. And after 17 days, we still don't have that kind of answer. Why am I particularly pointing out at the very beginning of this debate? Because this law on energy efficiency, against which LDP has nothing, is ready to support it, in fact, an example of the same practice that took place in previous years and in previous governments, which, among other things, led us to have a milk rule, which almost no one knows about, or can freely say that he did not know about it, and that the Minister of Agriculture says that what we have... (Chairman: Mr. Djuric, please return to the topic. I'll go back to this. Don't worry, Mrs. Kovac. What we have inconclusion is, in fact, the consequence of Euroentusiasm. This law will also turn into this unless there is a different political will for it to be implemented. Mrs. Mihajlovic, please be more specific when you talk about the law. When in such a poor country, which somehow in politicians' statements, and sometimes you too, makes the citizens of the castle waste excessive energy on heating and open windows or do not open windows, you said at one point – let them decide whether to open windows themselves. These rules that you mentioned about how they will be introduced in some way provided funds, apparatus that should provide measurement, are not so clearly and unequivocally laid out in the law that you have proposed. I'm giving you an order. 50th and 51st. In Article 51, public utility companies and other companies operating in the distribution of heat will be obliged to provide, inter alia, such measurement, or such use. However, with electricity, which is a substance regulated by the preceding Article 50. The bill of law that you have proposed does not read that way. There is no imperative, but is said to be – public enterprises and other companies that distribute electricity are obliged to provide, to the extent technically possible, financially justified and proportionate to the potential energy savings of existing final customers with the installation of measuring devices delivered to the amount of electricity, etc. It's not an obligation. It will assess the public enterprise to which it is possible and justified. He'll be assessing whether or not he has the means to do it. How it behaves among other things and this company depends primarily on how the government manages it. I am convinced that as long as the application of these members begins, it will not be this government. What example did you give the EPS or any other such a large system? Have you passed all the sublaws in the government and in the relevant ministries necessary for the implementation of the Law on Public Enterprises, which this parliament adopted several months ago? Are all acts of public and state-owned enterprises harmonised as required by the Government within the foreseen deadline, which has expired, a law passed by MPs of your parliamentary majority? Only a few days ago did you bring criteria for determining the company, depending on whether it will have a one-time or two-time management. This second area – alignment of internal acts, none of it has been done or almost nothing has been done. Then in your government, the company "The Ways of Serbia" tells you when a problem arises with Director Drobnjak that the election of a new board of directors, the Supervisory Board, and then the director under the Law on Public Enterprises is under way, according to a law that no longer knows the institution of the board of directors. This is the kind of innocuousness, and that is why you are constantly defining yourself for these topics that are more attractive, and only after a year or two in some way show that it was all due to the copying of an international standard and the fact that Serbia cannot implement it in the meantime. Why am I also in some way fascinated by the concern that ruling coalition MPs express about the efficient use of electricity? I'll tell you. I asked and the agenda came to me, whether these first points were really connected, since it seemed to me that from the debate of the ruling majority MPs and from your opening presentation there was actually only one point here - energy efficiency, and that this second regulation that we should adopt, which is called – Confirming the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on gas imports, is practically not on the agenda. There's no energy to discuss it. You know what, there's a lot of energy in LDP to discuss this law, and we're gonna show it today. Why? Not because we're obsessed with this subject. It's not about such a valuable and important job, but I'd be a little tired of that kind of thing, to say a little more freely, the play we have here every time. The Liberal Democratic Party here is talking about South Stream and Gas. You're telling your story. The second part of the government tells its story. In the end, it's all gone and nobody's got any use. This is business. You will today, or in Voting Day, confirm an agreement that is potentially worth $25 billion. Let me repeat another $25 billion. It's equal to the public debt of this country right now. That's almost two Serbian budgets. You have proposed an agreement, and we will determine in the debate whether it is you or someone else, Mrs. Mihajlovic, who provides for an agreement with the Russian side on imports of maximum five billion cubic metres of gas annually at current prices. Last time I guess we kind of barely figured out what that price was. You and Minister Bacevic differ, but let's say that the average is about $500 per thousand cubic dollars. Five billion times ten years is 25 billion, and if it's a little cheaper, here I'm reducing 20 billion. It is certainly the most valuable law, an act that includes the largest amount of money this assembly has to adopt or has adopted since the start of this term. I'm absolutely sure of it. If there was no enthusiasm for such an argument, I find it strange. I see that all political parties in their old or current programmes for Serbia's advance or Serbia's rescue propose energy, energy production, which they see as one of the primary goals, and then there's no debate on this. This is a contract that will be valid for the next ten years and since we are not since yesterday, let's remember September and October 2012, Mrs. Mihajlović. Is this agreement before us today the agreement that you support? I think it's your turn to tell us, and I'm going to go member by member so let's see what's acceptable to you, what's acceptable to the government. There is no Mr. Bayatovic, so let's see what is acceptable to him, President Nikolic. There are many status holders in this process, and I fear that this will make the child sour, and the cost of Serbia's citizens great. So, do you think that an optimally concluded agreement is where the amount of imported gas of five billion cubic metres is foreseen? It's almost two and a half times as much as we're importing at this point or twice as much as total consumption right now. That's a less important question. Another important question, what is "Yugorosgas", Mrs. Mihajlovic, in this agreement? Article 3, which, on its way to Moscow, had many dilemmas and misunderstandings in Belgrade, remained at the end of the proposal. Will "Yugorosgas" be an intermediary in the gas imports business or will it only be limited to those jobs that are in southern Serbia and which, by the way, are being carried out in a rather disastrous way, but this is not the primary issue now? In order to be even more specific, what is the annual cost of taking "Yugorosgas" on the basis of a gas import commission? What's the ownership ratio in the Jugorosgas company? You're the Minister of Energy, and we have the Government, we can't rely on information that is broadcast from time to time by the director of the Serbians. Since you must be a unique government, in some way or in the right way, you should manage the public enterprise that is in your portfolio, or your domain. What bank wants to buy? Did we return our 25% of our participation? Why did you achieve political failure? You promised Serbian citizens there would be no more mediators and there would be no "Yugorosgas" in this job. He's still got it. Someone's gonna say that maybe the price we can get without a middleman is higher than the one we have with the middleman. Is that true? If not, then let's see who broadcasts such information to the public and whether or not it has any personal, political, economic or any other interest in it? This is the third or fourth question, Mrs. Mihajlovic. What are Serbia's rights under this agreement? In what way is the Republic of Serbia, all consumers of current and potential gas in RS protected in the event of any foreseeable or unforeseen circumstances of economic, political or political any risk that could endanger the regular and regular, continuous supply of gas? It wouldn't be the first time. Some other countries have been in recent times, so in part, at this point, they have been faced with such problems in relations with the Russian Federation. Is there a court in charge, some arbitration, anyone for the conduct or respect of this agreement? To make the citizens understand, the LDP believes there are no conditions for discussing this document today. When an agreement or a gas delivery contract is said, then I assume that all of our citizens, not only those who are lawyers, mean that they are provided for very detailedly and to the end of the rights and obligations of the parties, are at the very least essential elements of the contract. Today, however, we need to confirm a contract that does not regulate neither the price nor the specific conditions, nor the relationship between rights and obligations, nor the responsibility. That this is thus confirmed by a member of the 2nd Agreement offered by you, your Government and your President of the Republic, Mrs Mihajlovic. It says – the co-operation under this agreement will be achieved through the conclusion of the contract between "Gasprom" and "Srbigas", and those agreements, i.e. contracts, determine the annual volume, conditions, and delivery deadlines of natural gas, rights and obligations of their signatories, financial and other co-operation conditions in accordance with the legislation of the member states. What are we confirming today? What do the MPs need to raise their hand for? For what price of gas, for which annual volume, for which rules will determine the responsibility of our country and the Russian side? Although our party's obligations are quite detailed in this roof agreement. It is said that Serbia will not impose any restrictions or bans on the investment of Russian businesses, in connection with this agreement. Article 4 The Serbian side guarantees a timely and complete natural gas bill that is delivered under the agreement. In the event of an untimely payment of natural gas deliveries carried out under this Agreement, such deliveries may be unilaterally suspended by the supplier. The natural gas delivered to the Republic of Serbia under this agreement is intended for use on the market of the Republic of Serbia. All right, that's our side of the deal. I think they're normal, that when you take it, buy the gas, spend it, you have to pay for it. What are obligations to the other side if they do not meet, or what are sanctions for the other side unless they fulfil their obligations? What's Russia for us? So big, brotherly, sisterly country, we have so much trust in it. Okay, I don't doubt it, but why doesn't Russia trust us? Why, finally, Mrs. Mihajlovic, the condition for you to sign this was to make an agreement on paying that old debt of 30 million from autumn, winter of 2000 to 2001, when so much goodwill is in these mutual relations? So, let's go back to politics in some way. There's every policy debate here. What will you or what have you written, if you have already submitted your work report, which I hear should be considered within the framework of your party after March 15th? What did you write about working in the gas area, that is, gas imports and co-operation with the Russian side? Did you point out this agreement as your success, failure or something you signed against your will and because one of you asked for it, because the President of the Republic has such an opinion, because someone in your ruling coalition has such an opinion? If it was a little something, I wouldn't insist on it, but this is a $25 billion job. Believe me, I wouldn't insist. I'm not going to insist today on whether or not... I didn't congratulate you at first, congratulations on your election as a member of the Belgrade University Council. If I understand correctly, in the meantime you've been elected to that post, even though you seem to be a professor of another university, but I don't think it'll be easy on that advice. There are also Mr Bacevic, as far as I can see, so at the Council of Belgrade University you will be able to continue your successful co-operation so far. Why would I ask that? Because I'm curious about how the performance criteria of your ministry, other ministries and government will be measured. We'll close that deal for 10 years. Russia will be entitled to it. We'll see if there's energy efficiency and stability. How are you going to implement this other law, which you are proposing today, if we have a government reconstruction this year, elections or both, since I see that you are not excluding the possibility of both happening at the same time? Will this law remain an act that will also not be passed by sublegal acts, as were many laws before this? This second law on the rights of the Russian Federation will apply. There's no dilemma. The Force of God does not pray. That is why I insisted on precise answers, which I expect from you when it comes to the legislation on the validation of the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Russia on gas imports. I ask you to answer the questions I have asked regarding the coordination of acts and organisations of public enterprises under the authority of the Government. Generally, how do you think you preserve national resources? Yesterday, the President of the Republic awarded a posthumous medal, a state, national order, to Ugu Chavez. I see that within the framework of your ruling coalition, there is great sadness, not only for a political friend or a man who shares yours or is close to your ideological and political attitudes, but above all as some kind of revolutionaries who have engaged terribly in the preservation of national resources. That is why I ask you – do you share this kind of enthusiasm in relation to the national resources of the Republic of Serbia? In the case of this gas import law or in the case of a mine rent, ore rent, which I am sure was in Venezuela at no time after Chavez came to power was 3% as it was in Serbia. Mr. Granny, you don't have to react that way. You chose your own way of working. You chose him yourself, say, last week when you lied to the LDP that the milk session would be held by the end of last week, and after three days, you pretended it never happened. I hope the code you're making for this assembly, even if it makes you behave differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12878	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12879	As a matter of fact, first of all, for the opening statement on these two points, which are joined to discuss. Considering that he is a proponent, or someone who will talk about it, it is the minister of energy, development and protection of the environment. To be honest, I tried to be shorter, so the MPs would speak their opinion of the law and of the proposal of the second law, and of the agreement. Generally, I was even shorter on confirming the gas delivery agreement in the next 10 years between the Russian Federation and Serbia, precisely because I knew that you would deal with it and that when we talk about relations with the Russian Federation, I know that I am looking at you here and that I am discussing with you rather than the rest of the parliament. A few things I'd like to answer. Just one little line about that milk. Don't you think Serbian citizens can't know the percentage of that aflatoxin in milk because it doesn't have a lab? I haven't heard from you in the previous years or in the previous period, I may be wrong, I am right, that you asked what happened to the laboratory, what about the millions of euros that the EU donated. Talks began the moment Ivana Dulic was Minister of Agriculture, and later Deputy Prime Minister, etc. We've had previous agriculture ministers here. So, what happened to that lab and why wasn't it built? Where did the money that the EU gave and what kind of message did we, as a state, send all previous years when we were so arrogantly moved, or those who ran this country, and about this particular laboratory? It's a question I've been asking all these days, not running away from other things, from other problems that exist in this area. Now I'd like to go back to these two things you mentioned. How are we even going to deal with the energy efficiency law, you asked among other things, if the government changes, how are we going to get the sublegal act? I think that the example of this government, specifically this ministry, in the past six months, has shown that everything the previous government didn't bring, and it was supposed to bring in from the area, say, energy, about the sublegal act we did in six months. So we've shown that there's been awareness over the previous that when you have an obligation to pass the law, it can't be implemented unless there's a sublegal act. That's where I agree with you. I believe that any government will come, this kind of system law will not be dropped in the sense that they will be made crazy, that they will not file a sublegal act. Free law if there are no sublegal acts, no matter when that government was. Regarding public enterprises, a regulation was adopted last week on a proposal from the finance ministry and over the next ten days the supervisory boards must form in these companies. I deeply believe that this will happen because it will facilitate the work of this ministry. As far as all public enterprises are concerned, I'm speaking from transnaft to power grid, of course EPS and Srbigas. When you talk about Russian gas, from what you say, does that mean that you suggest not to import Russian gas after you say – what kind of agreement is that and what do we do? Serbia uses Russian gas. If you have any other suggestions on how to get to the gas, if you have another suggestion whose gas to use, I'd like to hear it. I'm the first to diversify and route and supplier, because it's the best thing for a country. Unfortunately, we have been using Russian gas for decades and for now, the other direction we have, the South Stream, is also Russian gas. What is also certain is the construction of Nis-Dimitrovgrad, where we may be able to use some other gas. But the fact is we're relying on Russian gas. The fact is, we talked not nearly about the South Stream Act, that we simply have one direction to the gas flow, and in the negotiations itself we're always pretty much that side that can't very much affect all points of conversation, contract or agreement. When you say an agreement, this government literally inherited all the points of the agreement. So, someone before us who ran both energy and government, above all the government, I would even say that there and how the president of the country asked, negotiated the agreement. There are also the exact dates when the interviews were held. When an agreement is negotiated with a state that's the Russian Federation, you know, here could be, say, the United States, anyway, I'm speaking in strength, it's hard for certain things to change. What I think is not bad, just because there's a deal like this then, is that it's not true, it's decadently determined neither the quantity nor the price. That is why, because it is a roof agreement, it gives the possibility to negotiate on an annual basis what the price will be and how much the amount will depend on the need. To be honest, sometimes we might need more gas. Today it's far less than before, our economy doesn't work, and the price was high. It's not the price of $500, as you said. Under a new annual contract concluded by a public firm, the government is not the one that scalps the annual contract, the government only brings a framework roof agreement, which is the one that we have in parliament today, but the public company "Srbigas" is the one that makes the annual contract. Two weeks ago, we made a decision at the government and made a commitment to the public company "Srbigas" by concluding that within 15 days they had to conclude an annual contract for 2013, which they had not concluded. It was not good that they had not concluded, because we were the only country in Europe that did not have an annual contract. So they got a warrant from the government and they made a deal last week. The basic price in the contract is $399 per thousand cubic meters. Given that it is related to derivatives prices over the past nine months, and they fell 10 to 12%, the price will be around 370, with some of our projections at the ministry that next year it can be higher than 370. Therefore, that annual contract is concluded by a public undertaking. When you asked me about "Serbiagas" management, at one point I thought you thought the Ministry was managing "Serbiagas". The state is the owner of a public company and brings in a certain energy policy that should be done at all, as well as regarding the EPS when we have given the initial grounds for restructuring, but the state is not managing and not managing public enterprises, but is doing so by people who are directors or are now doing the board of directors, or tomorrow, hopefully, the Supervisory Board. They are responsible for the business of the public enterprise. For six months and a year, they have to report their work. If I missed something, I apologize, but there were a lot of questions, so I'm sure they'll do it again if there was anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12880	Thank you. The cut has a People's MP, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12881	Madam Chairman, thank you. Each of us in this room has the right to interpret his political views in a way that he thinks is appropriate and that people who are sympathisers or voters will kind of like the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What I object to you, Madam Chairman, is that if in 20 minutes of speech you speak about everything else, and not the subject that is on the agenda, I think you need a Rules of Procedure to use in full capacity and for such things to warn you. What I was reacting to, I reacted to the belief that my colleague's clumsy interpretation when he said that here, or the representatives of the government, I should be delighted to see that someone died, that President Venezuela passed away, Mr Hugo Chavez died. I don't want to comment on that. Everyone's death is one terrible event. The political functioning of Chavez should be discussed in history, as well as in the functioning of all of us. As for this second part where I was directly called, there are no topics for SNS that are unpleasant, there are no topics that we run away from. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates and slowly introduces responsibility as a system of values, and this will be a long and painful job in Serbia. In Serbia, all those who do something contrary to the laws will answer, but those who are in charge of doing things will answer, and they have not made certain things come to pass. I think what the president of the SNS and the first Serbian Deputy Prime Minister have announced is something that is most painful and the reforms we are conducting are something painful for our political opponents, because these are some values against which nothing can be said otherwise, but unfortunately, some people are disturbing. (President: Time. I'll just have one sentence, if you'll excuse me. The code of conduct is a value, a European value, a European liquid that we want to enter into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is why I am surprised that the biggest criticism for the introduction of European flows comes from people who have an unchanged path of Serbia as a value, and then when we want to introduce something, which will bring us closer to the EU, something like that bothers us. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12882	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12883	I guess now I have the right to two replicas, Mrs. Kovac, one minister, and one to Mr. Babic. But first, let's do this more serious, state-owned business, and we'll be easy with Mr. Babic, he's sworn in today's first vice president of the government. So, what does Mrs. Mihajlovic, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, say when you ask him what they've been doing in the past few years and what happened to the milk lab? What do other colleagues in the government say to you from the political parties that made the previous government, which today are your coalition partners? You've made a political decision to make a government with them, don't ask me that. I was an opposition MP in this parliament, the LDP in two previous calls and we criticised that government for any such failure, for the surface of European integration, as we will criticise you. When you talk about the price of gas, we can joke so that we can talk at such a formal level that the government does not manage the public company "Srbigas", but is done by the director and the board of directors. Yes, Mrs. Mihajlovic, only you and I know that the director of "Srbijagas" is called Dusan Bajatovic and that, apart from being an expert, he is also the vice president of one of the ruling parties in the government and MP in this parliament, so he is a little more politician than just a businessman. He's attending state summit meetings, and I don't mind, but then don't talk about "Serbigas" having anything more direct to the government than any other company. I asked you a very clear question – are all acts in accordance with the Law on Public Enterprises? The director's reports under the new Public Enterprises Act, i.e. the administration, ministries and government are for three months, not six months. I hope that it will respect companies and that the government will insist on it. Our remarks on milk, you mentioned that topic, they weren't. I can't determine how many aflatoxins there are, and I believe neither do you. My reaction to that was – why do we not have the right answer for 17 days and why is everything dragged through the mud, and you have changed the rule that you will now return? It's not a professional question, it's a political question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12884	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Skundric has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12885	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this law on the agenda today should not be the subject of any political division or politicisation of its contents, because it is equally important for the state and citizens, whether it will be one political option, another political option, regardless of the political option that will be in power. We haven't brought it in before, probably, among other things, that we don't have enough responsibility for this problem and we probably don't have enough knowledge. The law was previously made by the Energy Act, and the only reason it wasn't passed was because we couldn't agree on the Energy Efficiency Fund at all on the existence of the fund under the law. If we want to act on citizens, if we want to act on institutions and through our debate, then we really need to talk about the essence of this legal project or the values that have been shown in the social development or rebirth of human civilization, let's say from 1900 to 2000, under the strong influence of energy. No industrial area has had such a strong impact on technical and technological development and overall renaissance and quality of life. No man, as an individual, has influenced as much as our relative Nikola Tesla has on the development of energy, so if you want, and energy efficiency because he has designed the most efficient way of producing electricity, the most efficient transmission of electricity, the simplest distribution and application. We didn't always scratch for the world as much as we do now. The first hydrocenter in Tesla's principles was created in 1896, when Tesla in the best possible way defined the importance of energy, which is equally current today, that development, as he said, of cities and nations depends on the available amount of energy and human ability to discover new energy sources. Let's say that these are now renewable energy sources. In 1900, we were the second in the world to have built a hydropower plant under Tesla's principles under the city of Užica. Take the period from the former country in which we lived, from 1953 to 1965, Yugoslavia had a second rate of industrial growth in the world, after Japan, among other things, because it knew how important the energy sector is and how important it is to invest in the energy sector. Now that we're talking about energy efficiency, I have to remind you that significant efforts are made in the energy sector to increase energy efficiency. All capital revitalisations carried out included raising the capacity of existing production capacities, whether it was thermal, whether it was hydroenergy capacity, at a level above 10%, with the same energy consumption or the same water consumption. We will use the Đerdapa Capital Remont to get a practically new hydrocentral, of over 120 megawatts of power and extend the century and hydropower plants as long as its century has been, for at least over 30 years. Revitalized blocks in Obrenovac or Kostolc are paid out of increased energy efficiency in their production with the same amount of coal as energy, when they produced 10 or 12, 13% less energy. So in this sector, I think we're doing good procedures, having good results, and he can follow the goals that are defined by this bill that we're supposed to adopt today. We have a big problem and huge losses in energy, when it comes to distribution and when it comes to unauthorized takeover or, as the people say, stealing energy, especially electricity. If we were to do what this law provides in that part, we would only increase our energy efficiency by more than 10% in losses in the distribution part alone. What does that mean? This means that we would have one available capacity of about 700 or 800 megawatts of power that could place its production beyond our market, provided we had the same consumption. We expect that consumption in the industrial sector will grow and that restructuring energy consumption will go in favour of the industrial sector, not these personal and household consumption. It is said that we will all save, from citizens to companies dealing with production, transmission and distribution of electricity. That's why there are technical possibilities. I also understand the formulations that are given in part of the law, why they are so given. Because if we are going to go to a system of remote reading and computer management of the entire distribution and consumption of electricity, then it must be guided by those elements that you have entered into this article relating to the distribution, that is, the use of electricity and technical and economic justification in such situations. One is Belgrade, the other is Radan Mountain, etc., which does not mean that in some due time the system should not be comprehensive, consistent. Legal rules out no one, but says where certain procedures have to be done. If we look at how much this bill or law covers energy in general, we can conclude that it involves more than 70% in terms of primary energy production and consumption. What does that mean? It's somewhere between 10 million and 11 million tons of equivalent oil. If we were to make a 10% savings, which is realistic, which is possible, through five years of application of this law, we would save at least half a billion euros and provide the opportunity to use these funds for some better purposes than in throwing energy, as it seems today. It is a Danish country, perhaps with the greatest energy efficiency, but I have to tell you that Denmark is six times the price in Serbia, and ours will not differ much from that Denmark now that we adopt it, it has a price of electricity six times the price of Serbia, that's 600%. That price of terror and those not enlightened enough to take care of how much energy they're going to spend. I am not for Danish prices to understand, but I am talking about instruments that can affect rational behaviour in terms of meeting, for example, the objectives of a specific energy policy. Many citizens today will say that the price of electricity or heat is high. But take especially those who smoke, let them calculate, and they will see that if in one four-member household there is one who smokes, that more money will be spent on cigarettes than on funds that must be allocated to spent electricity. I have the right to say that to all smokers, since I've been smoking, unfortunately since the last two years, to do something that is harmful to us, to the environment, and when we save electricity or heat, we use the common good for ourselves, and we use the common good for everyone. Since energy policy objectives include, among other things, protecting the environment to the extent that we implement the provisions of this law, we will also protect the environment. Because the savings that we now achieve by revitalising certain capacities by so many percent reduce the emissions of harmful gases in thermal power plants or by as much as we reduce the consumption of heat energy, and we can reduce it to 30% or more percent, if we behave strictly under the provisions of this law. I think one of our goals is also the process of stabilising and joining, or regional integration, and that we need to take care of it. We are a member of the energy community, we are part of the energy community of the European energy market. The frequency of electricity today is the same in Belgrade and Brussels. By the same standards, let me say, we need to run our, for example, electricity system as it is run by the whole of Europe, and I think that's very good. But we are not doing this because we would just harmonize with European legislation and become part of Europe's global energy market. And we should do it first of all, for our own sake, for general benefit, for the sake of savings and for the possible further development. The law is structured very well, it has everything one such law should have, which similar laws in European countries have. I don't think there's any reason why we can't all support him, because that's how we're going to send a message to the citizens, so we're going to send a message to the relevant sectors dealing with this problem that's really vital to us, and that it's better to save that electrical energy that we're taking out to the region. Because even today, there is a lack of electricity at a level of 20 terawatts of hours in the environment. It is expected that in 2020 there may be 24 terawatts of hours or to translate it into billions of kilowatt hours, which is 24 billion kilowatts of electricity. So there's a real possibility that all the surpluses that we would have achieved on that basis, and we wouldn't be able to place with us, to place in the region where we live. Otherwise, surely to contribute to reducing import dependence even though the truth works, we are not the most import-dependent country in the region. The least energy dependence has Romania with about 29% import dependence, then we follow in the region with 34%, and after us all other countries are even more energy-dependent, as in most of Europe is dependent on both natural gas from the Russian Federation and coal from the Russian Federation, not only from the Russian Federation. Since we are talking here today about this other law, I would like to say that there is an equal or similar import energy dependence of our country with countries in the region, in Europe, and that we are not the only ones making such arrangements with the Russian Federation regarding this agreement on long-term gas delivery, but other countries are doing so. We were privileged, and I believe that we will continue to be, we were the only country that could contract three and five billion dinars of normal meters of cubic gas, to pull two and not pay for the penals for the agreed quantities. For the rest of the states, that didn't apply. There have been other benefits, and I don't think there are any reasons, on the contrary, that we should continue to ratify this long-term gas supply agreement today, because it only guarantees us that we will be able to have a secure supply, and that we will negotiate with annual contracts the supply, the quantity, the price and everything else as we have so far been the practice. I agree that there's other gas here on the market, and if it were cheaper for us, it wouldn't be any reason for us not to do that. But I don't see any reason not to, on the contrary, I think it's very good to support, to ratify this agreement to ensure Serbia's safe natural gas supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12886	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We continue work at 14 hours and 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12887	We continue with the work The Word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12888	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO and the DHSS have been closely monitoring everything that preceded the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Law. Of course, there has been a number of public stands, gatherings, round tables, with the involvement of the professional public, with the interest of all those who exploit, and distribute and use energy, but also with the interest of our friends and from the European Commission. I, on behalf of my parliamentary group, wanted to say something, which makes mass, is not sufficiently absorbed in previous debates, and that is besides what the law itself will regulate, and that is good, because for the first time we are legally regulating this very important area. It is an area where world leaders often deal at their summits, which is an area that has very much lived in the EU, it is an area that is not abstract. It is of great importance to regulate the state itself, but also of great importance to the life and economy of each of our citizens. We often meet in public with this concept of sustainable development, and if we were to talk to citizens, they would not fully know to define what it means, sustainable development, as regards the use of energy. Definitions are diverse, but usually mean good thermal, i.e. insulation protection in terms of energy saving, primarily heat, efficient energy use, use of renewable energy sources and environmental protection. Where Serbia is in all these parameters today, at a very low level, without any kind of ideological relationship to all of this, since I belong to a political party who, with the day of its founding, has advocated radical changes in the social system and for reforms in all areas of our life, somehow any social issues to touch, we see that we have rather unregulated systems, there are necessary reforms, systems that are very late in their structural redecoration compared to the developed systems that we seek, so is the same as with energy efficiency. The assessment of our experts and the assessment of European experts that Serbia is at an inaccessible low level regarding energy efficiency in the exploitation of energy sources, in distribution and in end-users, because in all these fields we have great losses. The fact is that it is not a matter and responsibility of an individual, not a single ministry, it is a matter of the system and what many colleagues have mentioned, primarily the development of awareness and the necessary education of the population. It's slowly resuscitating, but not to a sufficient extent. In recent years, large housing facilities have, if we are talking about saving heat, have standards and project documentation that implies adequate isolation, but even in rural households, in new constructions, we are seeing an increasingly increasing phenomenon that people are paying more attention to energy efficiency, energy savings, because with a good isolation of a family household that savings in terms of heat energy can be up to 30%. This awareness is slowly developing, but in our view not sufficiently, and that is why we wanted to propose to go into some kind of positive campaign, not only by the ministries, but by all those who, as regards countries that have reached the highest level in energy efficiency, participate in the promotion of energy efficiency itself. These are, in addition to decision makers and policy makers, academic communities, large private corporations, to small or slightly larger, less or more influential NGOs, and the NGO sector. Of course, the problem we're talking about is, above all, structural. Often in our public, and we are not fully aware of it, there is a confusion about what systems we need to promote, what systems we need to strive for. Now, according to a public opinion survey, the mood of citizens as regards EU accession on a quite low scale is something about 42-43%, but many citizens have preconvinced that some other systems are much better organised and so on. Of course, I believe that our country as a serious and responsible state needs all fields of its operation to co-operate with all major and influential countries of the world, and with the Russian Federation, and with China, etc. But if we mention China and its system, here these days is the current debate on the catastrophic state of the environment, and that has something to do with the use of energy, it's all in a causal and consequential relationship. But we also have data on the other hand, that it's an extremely low standard of citizens, but that China is at the rate of billionaires in world proportions in place number two. This speaks of a system that can be promoted as a system of justice and equality of socialism, etc., and it is everything, just not turned on by a citizen, an individual, unturned by justice and unturned equality. And there's a lot to talk about. Someone here mentioned, a good example of the construction of the first hydropower plant in Serbia, for the production of electricity, is the promoter and the man most advocated, is Tesla's friend and admirer, prominent Djordje Stanojevic, Belgrade University rector and famous physicist, who in 1900, in a way symbolically opened the first hydropower plant in Serbia in Uzic on the river Djinja. It was the second hydropower plant in the world, and of course it was the first one in the Balkans. She also had one, worked until the 1970s, and then when she built the Belgrade-Bar railway, for a time there was and buried that gap, the hydropower plant did not work for nearly 30 years, but in 2000, it was successfully restored, released and re-lit by the town of Uzice. At the same time, Mr. Djordje Stanojevic has done a very important study, a study on Serbia's hydroenergy potential, which is really big. And in general, Serbia's energy potential is really huge, but we'll all agree on that underexploited. Here, we, if I'm not mistaken, in the middle of this year, are going to let it work, or so it should be, six mini-bodies, mostly from the European Community, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or loans. This is something that is good because European leaders have this ambitious plan three times 20%, which means they plan to reduce the emissions of harmful gases by 20% by 2012 to achieve 20% of renewable energy and reduce primary energy or promote energy efficiency by 20%. The second hydropower plant opened in 1903 in Leskovac on the Vučjanka River and that is proof that Serbia was also a kingdom in that period. We know and we are fully aware of this campaign that continues against everything that has to do with the Kingdom, but Serbia was definitely and then, to a large extent, a country that has been following what is happening in the world, not only in these segments of its life, but if we talk and compare, every segment of social life is extremely objective, we will see that in many elements of our life we have been completely someone who applies standards or tends to apply standards then most developed countries of the world. If we're talking about these energy losses, they're really big, from the loss of energy production, from the loss of distribution, to the loss of the users themselves, because we're a society that didn't even sort out a part of justice. If we're talking about the use of heat to heat up family households or apartments, we're still paying for energy to the square rather than to the actual energy consumption. We have a series of really benign situations to say that the room is overheated, apartment or house, and then the owners manage by keeping windows open all day long. In winter they walk through apartments with open windows with short sleeves etc. And they spend an enormous amount of energy in vain. On the other hand, we have apartments or households, which because they don't have an energy license, aren't made by all standards, because there's a lot of irrational openings, a lot of energy losses, they don't have adequate heat. But it's the condition it is. If we talk about this emissions of harmful gases, acid rains and the resulting greenhouses, we'll see that we're also here at the European bottom. If we talk about the accompanying diseases of various systems, primarily respiratory systems, we'll see that we're in that negative scale at the very top. Here, the town of Kragujevac, whose representative I am, has over 5,000 children with respiratory disease. It's a legacy because Kragujevac is a large industrial and large metal centre, because it's a huge emissions of harmful gases, that we don't just talk about how endangered the environment is at large hydropower plants because it's known that so-called. "fossil fuels" for energy production, emit most of these negative and health-related populations of extremely dangerous particles both in the air and in the land and in the water. As a result, the health of the population is at great risk. What the SPS and the Democratic Party of Serbia first know is that the situation in this area is very bad. Secondly, if this were a revolutionary law, it was the first time. It wasn't brought by the authorities in the '90s, or by the authorities before that, or by the so-called. "transitional" authorities after October 5th. But what follows us, it is indeed a long process of application and final effects from the application of this law, and it will depend on every citizen of an individual, from investors, from an energy efficiency agency, from sublegal acts, on all those who are in charge of controlling the efficient use of energy and those who are in charge of issuing permits so-called. "Energy licenses." This is one big step, but the first step in solving a very complex problem. I'll tell you what my personal experiences are. Somewhere back in the '80s, after one stay in Vienna, just about 50 miles down the Danube, we stopped by Bratislava. Vienna and Bratislava were not very different about this European appearance of cities, but the difference was next – Vienna was clean, the air was obviously different, the facades were different, the streets were different, and Bratislava was all sordid, muddy, full of waste industrial matter and it was seen that they were once a important European city, but that the system did what it did to them. Fortunately, after a good change in the system and after the reforms Slovakia made, a few years ago when I was passing by the same route, I saw Bratislava shine in the same glow as Vienna. Another example from a Czech state hospital shows that awareness has been developed at all levels of efficient energy use. Namely, several hospital rooms were distributed to patients, there was a winter period, these rooms were heated. The number of patients decreased, simply the people who work on these jobs at the hospital have attached valves to the radiators in those rooms where there are fewer patients. They put all the patients in two rooms, and the others had no blemish. We don't have such simple examples in our practice. Let's not talk about municipal waste which is a huge energy potential, which is completely untapped with us. We know that the processing of municipal waste and the use of municipal waste in energy production is a great business and great potential in the world, but in that part, we are much behind the world. What you can see in EU countries and when you drive by car or fly by plane, that is a large number of new modern windmills. Free source of energy, wind blowing, wind winds turning into energy, renewable energy. Of course, it takes an investment to make a windmill, it's a serious investment, but we're talking about the very source of renewable energy. This is something likely to be with greater use of solar energy, all other renewable energy sources, good use of Serbia's great hydroenergy potential. The Serbian Renewal Movement, primarily our chance in the EU, i.e. the great potentials that we can meet there, see both in energy and in water and in the production of healthy food. But to do all of this, we need not only to improve energy efficiency, but also to improve the state of the environment that is very threatened and we can talk about it for a long time. When the Energy Act was last amended in this National Assembly two years ago, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I was just talking about this subject. I was saying that we look forward to the Government's proposal for a law on energy efficiency and I say, even though it was a topic of the Energy Act, this is still an integral part of the same matter, one and the same area, so what I'm saying now is not a new story of the SPO and the DHSS, it's a continuation of everything we've talked about before. In the very text of the law there's nothing to object to, there's nothing to object to or intention, but what we're going to be interested in, that's how all of this is going to live in practice. That is why, because we have really well analysed this situation and monitored the situation in these areas, we believe that, in addition to the big money that needs to be invested in all of this, besides the money that every citizen has to invest, this educationally promotional role is very important. Often and world leaders at their meetings and summits, one of the first topics they launch is the topic of global warming, the topic of environmental protection, the topic of energy efficiency with the parole that we didn't inherit the earth from our fathers, but borrowed from our children. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia as a serious parliamentary club and in the debate details will take serious part in this debate. After the exchange of arguments on the one hand and on the other we will make a decision, but most likely we will support one such law. At the same time, we will follow a series of sublegal acts that will be brought from this area. Of course, we'll meet with both Madam Minister and all of you distinguished Ministry gentlemen. I say, responsibility isn't just up to you, we're aware of it. It is also responsible for local self-government and businesses and for every citizen, but it is good that it has finally started in this very important segment of our social life, in the changes that the Serbian Renewal Movement with the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia has been talking about in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12889	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12890	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Mrs. Mihajlovic, we have before us a system law that this area should have been regulated much earlier. Regardless of all the reasons Mr Skundric said in his presentation, I would not be able to respect them, because simply, the fact that there was no agreement on the fund cannot justify the reasons why this law has not been passed so far. I would like to commend you for the fact that you and your ministry colleagues have proposed this law in the second half of the first year of the term of office of this government, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia. Also, I am pleased with the fact that fellow MPs who have so far discussed this topic have not, as I would say, observed it in a uniformly narrow manner, only through the reduction of energy consumption and its rational use, but rather through the emission of harmful gases and elements, through the preservation of the environment and indirectly through the health of the nation. Unfortunately, I must say that in this area, the Republic of Serbia is at the beginning of a comparison with other European countries, according to many numerical indicators. In the light of this law, you have cited exactly the reasons why the regulation of this area was necessary and therefore the adoption of this law. I'm just going to make a few facts that, for me, which I'm a layman in this area, have made a big impression on. For example, the energy intensity in Serbia is as much as two, three times higher than in the EU country. The greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector are up to 76%. In Serbia, 6.2 tonnes of carbon dioxide per capita is aired annually, twice as much as the average gas mission in countries with similar or same income and level of development. This information, unfortunately, also provides an infamous high fifth place on the scale of the largest environmental pollutants in the competition of 36 European countries when it comes to carbon dioxide emissions. Out of the total emissions of this gas, 15% originates from all kinds of traffic, mostly roadside. The ratio of energy produced from renewable and conventional sources is also extremely unfavourable. In view of all of the above, it is clear that the adoption of such a law is absolutely necessary, as well as its adequate application through the implementation of sublegal acts. I would also agree with colleagues who said permanent education and informing all layers of the population in this area, raising levels of environmental awareness and changing rooted bad habits. It is often speculated in the public that we adopt many laws because they have been taken from the EU as a commitment on our path to the EU. I'd say that's not the case with this law. His necessity of adoption is indeed evident and clear. I think that, regardless of the fact that it is relying on a number of EU conditions, it is also necessary because of the international obligations undertaken by the Republic of Serbia and the signed agreement on the EU's energy community between the countries of the region, and it aims to improve and correct all the bad I said, and its essence is, above all, to improve the overall standard of population and create conditions for better living in the Republic of Serbia. The objectives set out in Article 2 are set out in order to achieve priority by adopting this law. The bill also refers to increasing energy security and its more efficient use, increasing the competitiveness of the economy, reducing the negative impacts of the energy sector on the environment and fostering responsible behaviour towards energy. I would especially like to point out the responsible behaviour towards energy, because without changing these bad habits in this area, it is difficult to achieve those goals. In this respect, the provision of Article 15, point 11, which provides for the competent ministry to carry out public campaigns and other educational activities in the capacity to strengthen awareness in relation to the efficient use of energy and supports other performers of such campaigns and activities. Article 44 of this law requires investors to heat the installation of equipment for regulation devices, which is good and that citizens of Serbia have long waited for this area to be arranged in such a way and it is specified that the installed devices must be verified previously by the authorised body or, respectively, by the Directorates for Measures and Precious Metals. So in this way, in the Republic of Serbia, it finally begins with the introduction of a good long-term practice that exists in the US and the EU, that each citizen pays as much heat energy as he has spent and that the way consumers are directly stimulated to take more care of consumption, i.e. saving energy. In this respect, it is also the provision of Article 47(1) to include in the tariff system remote heating services as one of the elements for the calculation of the price of the heating service and measured or indeed submitted to the quantity of heat energy. Article 50(1) also obliges public undertakings and other companies to provide, in relation to potential energy savings, existing final customers with the installation of the measuring device of the submitted amount of electricity. Article 51 also defines the obligation of the energy distributor, which should first and foremost be taken into account whether the new facility is connected to the system or whether it is about the reconstruction of an existing facility when it comes to these measuring devices. All of this is to enable end-users to establish a contractual relationship with a distributor on a clear market basis, where they will know exactly how much energy is spent and how much is the price of that energy. Article 52 in an almost identical way establishes an obligation for both public undertakings and other companies, which deliver natural gas to final customers. I believe that in order to achieve this objective, it is extremely important to inform customers of all relevant facts, in particular the amount of energy that the buyer took over during the previous month, the average energy price for the buyer during that month, the total amount of energy taken over and the monthly energy consumption over the previous 12 months, the ratio of the amount of energy taken over by the buyer and the average amount of energy taken over by the customers of the same category, the way in which the buyer gets information on the available energy efficiency improvement measures, the list of measures that the buyer can take to save energy, as well as other data that may be relevant for the rational use of energy. Article 59 to 62 defines setting up competences and how to allocate funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget fund to improve energy efficiency. In view of these poor indicators, when it comes to carbon dioxide emissions in road transport, it was necessary that Articles 71 to 73 of this Act, institutions and certain obligations for competent authorities and organisations, in particular for local self-government, which have more than 20,000 inhabitants and which are obliged to bring an energy efficiency improvement programme into transport over a period of three years, and that the report on the implementation of the programme is submitted to the ministry no later than 30 days after the expiry of the period for which the programme was adopted. It is this provision that shows how determined the proponent is to impose order in this area and the proposed fines, including a 60-day prison sentence, show that this area is very seriously resolved by this law. I believe that this law is the first realistic step, if, of course, its provisions are fully applied in practice, to final energy savings of 9% in the period until 2020 and all its provisions clearly point to the main objective of ensuring a rational and environmentally sustainable use of energy, which will contribute to a safer supply of energy, increasing employment, competitiveness of the economy in general and protecting the environment, which will ultimately benefit all citizens of Serbia. Since there has been criticism here from colleagues who have previously said that MPs of the ruling coalition do not want to, or for some reason do not talk about an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on natural gas deliveries, I would like to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group welcomes the confirmation of this agreement. We believe this agreement will allow security of gas supply in Serbia, ensure the energy security of the Republic of Serbia. It's a good thing there's no amount or price set, and you said yourself that they'd be discussed on an annual basis. This agreement for the New Serbia parliamentary group is a natural consequence of good relations and the overall Serbian-Russian interstate co-operation whose crown gas arrangement was signed in Moscow five years ago, and which we recently recalled here during the debate on the Expropriation Law. Confirmation of this agreement will improve the conditions for reliable energy and energy supply, allow the development of energy infrastructure and the introduction of modern technologies, along with the South Stream. All those who think, as you yourself have said, for whatever reason, that this agreement is unfavourable to propose a second option and this assembly will discuss that as well. Finally, I would like to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group will also support the proposal for an agreement and a bill on effective use of electricity in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12891	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12892	Serbia needs this law on efficient use of energy, because when we know that the efficiency of the transformation of primary energy into final energy is only 57%, so 43% of energy is discarded and gone, then it's clear how much it takes. Let's not talk, say, about the household sector where almost 40% of the energy we get and at the end of the day we pay to get lost through walls, doors, windows, etc. I especially wanted to agree with you that I don't understand why this law wasn't passed before. When I came to this place, we started asking about the basic reasons why the law had not been in the congregation procedure before. The basic reason he wasn't is the fund, but I think it's an amazing thing. The reason was because they previously wanted to build such a fund that would have its director, the board of directors, a lot of administrations and various other opportunities. We have defined ourselves to create a budget fund, but to be a professional service, to have no board of directors, to have no director, he works on projects as determined, whether he will finance or co-finance projects, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12893	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12894	Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues before me, regardless of what is quite broad, have largely managed to cover all the topics covered by this bill on effective use of energy from the beginning to the end. At first, I would like to say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. I'm going to try to focus in a slightly different way two things that I think are most important, and that's the part of spending that irrational part, and that's what it depends on. On the other hand, one part of my exposure will be devoted to renewable energy sources. Not all situations in life require laws. Some situations are not even regulated by laws, and yet people respect them in accordance with moral and personal ethics in the right way. The many situations that follow us through life are covered by law, but these laws are not respected. Finding out what's better than these two is always pretty hard. We need this law first of all because of the fact that we have the cheapest electricity in the region. When we talk about savings and rational consumption, those that make the price of electricity at this level, citizens, are not the ones who are, to the greatest extent, using electrical energy irrationally, primarily because of the fact that they pay it out of their pocket. I had a chance to see the E.P.S. Debtor's lists. Who are your big debts and who owes you the most money? These are mostly legal systems, they are public systems, they are different institutions, different companies. Why is that? First of all, the fact that all those people who are responsible for making these accounts have no obligation as citizens to pay out of their own pocket. For that reason, I think this part where we now have some penalties and criminal provisions, is that it's something that's good in this law. There's a question, and we're going to see it in part through the amendments, can we fix that part a little bit, to increase the responsibility of the responsible persons themselves? The theft of electricity in some Serbian cities goes up to 60% of the information I managed to reach. You can correct me if I'm wrong. The losses you have, or, let's say, we have online, they go from about 12% to 18%. For network losses and for us to solve this big problem at all, we need certain resources, so that the very responsibility of the people who need to implement it depends on the means, and the resources dictate our pace when it's over. But what we don't need money for, first of all, is to move the awareness of Serbian citizens that they must, first of all, try to spend this energy more rationally. I've been led by the Single Serbia practice, that everywhere where we have direct influence on certain things, we take the initiative and try to show good examples how it's done. I had the chance to serve as vice president of Vranjska Banja in the last term. I was able to reach some donors who were in the mood to deliver for three of our facilities, gifts, solar collectors worth 50% of the total project that we implemented at the time, and 50% were funded by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The project was brought to an end and it is now showing its results, with the very savings at the annual level. That's pretty big money. We didn't know what kind of savings it was when we did it. What I want to share with you is that on that day with a team of engineers and professors who need to do it, they need to build a project, so at the very beginning of that action, I went out on the ground, I asked the teacher that question – what will be the savings with this system and the more efficient use of electricity compared to the investment we invest in? My professor was then in the hallway of the facility where the windows were open and since it was snowing, all the radiators were as hot as possible, the professor said that the first level of savings would be made the moment we closed the windows. It's also the beginning of my opening presentation, where I still think that all people in institutions and, above all, in local self-governments, as well as in large systems, are those who can try to make spending as rational as possible. Another example that I want to share with you, and here you have one recommendation to make it easier for you to reach all the mayors and presidents of the municipality, is another decision that we have made locally with us in Vrnjačka Banja, which is to make a reduction of communals for every building facility that has an installed kilowatt of energy from a renewable source, meaning, 15,000 dinars per kilowatt of renewable source. That's what started in practice with us. All the new buildings, hotels, motels that work are just aware of the fact that in this way they can save a lot of money. Another recommendation, if you are able to find a modulus in a similar way to subsidize those municipalities and cities that are different from some other efforts, because the problem, if someone is active, is again saving money for both this country and this budget and taxpayers, and someone who is totally passive is using the same rights and same privileges. Of course, once again, I want to say that the JS parliamentary group will vote for both proposals of these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12895	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12896	Thank you for voting for the bill. Just to inform you that, let's say, the debts, or claims of the EPS are close to a billion euros, but so it's half-half, so about 50% is the economy and 50% are those households and citizens, since you said, you made a small difference behind that. I agree completely that there was either a selective exclusion or there were no exclusions or simply people were nurtured in that sense that they did not have to pay for electricity. We've done one other thing now. Of course, we've written off the interest, we've offered a reprogramme, but under the obligation that when that reprogramme is not respected, whether it's a business entity, whether it's a household, the electricity will have to be shut down. So we have to start acting differently. That's what I'm saying because of this second part of the law itself, where you were talking about citizens' consciousness. It's not just a matter of the ministry, of the government, of the state and of this parliament to discuss this. All MPs know and will know the basics of this law, and that is the question of both local self-government and cities and all of us together, to explain to people what benefits they can have from this law, and therefore that we have a global increase in energy efficiency and what we are ultimately looking at, which is stability, less energy imports and certainly an increase in competitiveness. What's very important is new technologies are important, it's important that industry and economy start using such equipment that is energy efficient. Finally, there is one part of the Law on Public Procurement where it is said that public procurement must now respect the issue, that is, the principle of energy efficiency. This is the first step, but more importantly, from the beginning of your speech, I come back, it's that the law is being applied, that the sublaws start as soon as possible and that this law is really starting to apply, and we're here to control its application, among other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12897	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12898	Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished colleagues, first of all, have every honour for the law. It seems to me that this is one of the best laws, at least lately, we've adopted in this House. When it comes to energy efficiency and energy consumption in Serbia, Serbia is without a doubt the biggest waste in Europe, certainly. Serbia spends 2.5 times more energy than the world average and about four times more than EU countries per parole unit of social gross product. This fact speaks a lot about us, about our relationship to one important resource, and it says that for this very reason we are at 35 points of competition from 144 countries in the world. So that is what the legislator himself found in the objectives of this law, where he linked directly energy efficiency to competitiveness. Clearly, we can't go far with a system like this. It's a pity we didn't pass this law at least ten years earlier. It's been a long time, we've lost a lot, a lot of things have gone into the wind. I won't have a long discussion. My predecessors have said a lot. I'm going to look back on something almost everyone mentioned, including you several times, to consciousness. The successful implementation of this law will depend solely on how much we will all be able to change the minds of people and the attitude towards energy consumption. Neither of us or almost anyone knows what's behind that power switch that's just so easy and we just activate, we get what we need, whether it's light, TV, computer, washing machine or something. People don't think at that point what's behind it and what the consequences are, how we get to that current. Simply, it is spent as if it were being supplied in a supermarket, or as if it were on the spot. It's something I've come to realize in my personal experience, when it comes to that consciousness, several times when I criticized my own children not to turn off the light after themselves. They've commented that I'm underprivileged, that I'm petty and that it's nothing. They even tried to prove to me that those half-hours didn't cost two dinars. That's right. However, when I explained to them that the forest was being cut, that the hectares of fertile land were disappearing, that the human environment was polluting, and since I came from Pogorec, when I was going with them to Kostolac, when they saw the consequences of the decades-long work of a thermoelectric power plant, then they just became clear that it was not a problem in money and it was not a problem in that price, but the problem is how much really expensive electricity is, or any other form of energy, especially those that can't be restored. It seems to me that the law may have explicitly, when it comes to documents, action plans, exiles, and in those formulations where, among other things, the programme should be particularly contained, perhaps there should be compulsory education, or media campaigns, or anything that is understood. I'm sure in strategy and in every document, and you've talked about it yourself, that different brochures are being prepared, but it wasn't a waste to make that explicit, perhaps as some obligation, but I'm sure that's understood. We can see every step of our inefficiencies, starting with that every day we can see street lighting burning in broad daylight, that in whatever office, especially the office where it works in the public sector, in the state institutions, we can see. And I've seen all of you, where employees sit, of course, steam heating works, there's a heater, necessarily it's a quartz, but also an open window, to keep the air fresh, because they're cold, and as that fresh air falls down, then there's got to be a heater. So it's this kind of haughtiness and lack of any sense, or consciousness when it comes to, specifically, electricity consumption or any other energy, especially when people know that they don't personally pay out of their pockets. Speaking of consciousness, there's a kind of perverse consciousness, completely strongly offended, that electricity is, in fact, cheap, that it doesn't have to be paid and that it can be stolen. A large number of citizens have this upside down awareness that all of this is allowed. Not only citizens, but many businesses, many companies, absolutely do not calculate electricity, because they know they can spend it without paying for it. You mentioned yourself that it is more than a billion euros in debt. That kind of perverse consciousness is precisely because we didn't have one of these laws. Imagine now, I think you mentioned that today, too, to increase our industrial production by 10%. We would have to import far more electricity and completely reduce the effect of such a positive event. It is often said that we need energy capacity. I agree, but first of all, we need to make savings that this law can provide, if it is consistently prepared, because the effects of this law are, in fact, equal to the effects of capacity building in the area -- whether it's thermal power plants, hydropower, wind energy or other, in fact, this law allows this bucket that we all know is bilical and that we've been filling from the budget for years, we're pouring down, it's much simpler to patch it up, and then we're filling it up. It seems to me that this law, if applied, can have such an effect. In the end, we will certainly support one of these laws and the fact that energy in the future will be less and less, that it will be more and more expensive, that it is extremely important strategic, to say, resource. Any honor for the law, with one more finding, that it had to be brought at least ten years earlier, that we missed a lot, a lot of lost, but I'm sure that that consciousness will go in some positive direction, so that we'll all be far more efficient in the future, to spend less energy and to have greater effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12899	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12900	Thank you. I'll only tie myself to one thing you mentioned, which is significant. Serbia's citizens mostly use electricity for heating, they act rationally, they watch what is cheapest for them in relation to other energy sources and choose their home budget for what suits them. It's up to the government and the ministry to determine and sort out a few things that we've been doing in the last six months, which is that we're preparing a price policy that will know in advance how prices will move. Not only prices as prices, but to determine the parity between energys. That is why we have already done so much in the area of renewables. That's why we're trying to take the heat measurements. That's why, in fact, this energy efficiency law is. Because all that I've listed and how it affects how we can offer an alternative, not that electricity, which you've already said for yourself what it takes to get a kilowatt hour at all, is used for heating. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12901	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12902	Dearly respected presidency, Mrs. Mihajlovic, my predecessors have said a lot of things in favour of this law, I will mention some of the most important, and it is two laws. One is the law on energy efficiency, the other is to confirm the agreement with the Russian Federation on gas imports. My discussion will apply more to the energy efficiency law, which we all have come to realize and agree that the key law is one of the most important laws that can improve the quality of our lives. This law, you said in your opening statement, was three years late, that is, ready for the 2009 assembly debate, and only now do we get it in this form and we have a debate about it. I would say that this law is late for at least 15 to 20 years and that the countries that were our level of development have been subject to these laws and the measures laid down in these laws have begun to apply far earlier. As a basis for solving problems in the energy sector, the foundation is practically set between 2004 and 2008, by adopting a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting a programme for the achievement of this strategy in the Energy Act. Practically during 2007, this law, in the most part, was prepared for the assembly debate and was not completed. To remind you at the time, the ministers were from the DSS. By the downfall of the government in 2008, the law did not come to the assembly debate. In any case, most of this legal matter that we have before us today was already ready and prepared, in the most part, in this form. It is widely known that Serbia is one of the biggest energy wasteers. Speaking in September of the month, when the law on the abolition of the energy efficiency agency was passed, he spoke of only uneducated and undeveloped nations and societies being related to energy. The data that in developed countries of Europe, not to say the world, spends about 100 - 120 kilowatts per metre per square year, and that with us, this consumption ranges from 230 in public buildings, and even up to 300 in private buildings, it is very vivid to say that we are having an unreal and absolutely ineffective relationship with energy. In that sense, such a law is necessary over. Simply, we come up with one basic question – what is the reason in this way for citizens to treat energy this way, that is to say, to treat energy sources this irrationally, to waste energy completely needlessly? That's where I'd say two basic reasons. One is awareness and certainly awareness strengthening in the population that it is necessary to deal rationally with energy and to use this energy rationally. The second reason is, what you mentioned earlier, inadequate pricing policy. It is completely incomprehensible that out of the total electricity consumed for households, otherwise 24% of total consumption is waste on household consumption, and that 50% of the electricity consumed in households, 65% of that amount is spent on heating. For the production of one kilowatt of electricity, 4 to 4.5 kilowatts are spent, counting all the losses, of course in the transmission system, losses in heat generation, to get that energy as the highest quality, best in electricity, and then as much as 65% of the total consumption in electricity households is converted back into that same heat. So we're starting at 1:5. Let's destroy five kilowatts of coal or I don't know what other energy, gas, for example, to get one kilowatt of that same heat that we use as final energy. The reason for this is, of course, an inadequate price policy, i.e. an inadequate system. The cost of energy for households, for basic electricity consumption I speak, for basic consumption must have that social component, but only for those households that spend in a rational way, that is, how long the number of kilowatts is adequate for minimum consumption. Anything that comes out of this framework, therefore, over 1,000, 1200, 1500 kilowatts, must have a far higher price of electricity in order to simply be detimulative for the consumption of that heating power. As far as the law itself is concerned, he is, therefore, large at first sight, but in principle he is principled and he has processed several segments. First, he worked on the policy and strategy of efficient energy use. Then, this law provides for the introduction of energy managers and energy advisers who are actually those professionals who need to implement energy efficiency policy, to carry out measures in an organised way, to bring measures into local self-government or public enterprises and other energy consumers, to the largest energy consumers. This law also introduces the obligation to label products, i.e. those that consume electricity, white techniques and all other home appliances, the so-called energy classes, which so far existed on our market, but mainly as import products. As far as our products are concerned, this obligation did not exist, and it is another quality newspaper. The law also processed energy efficiency matter in energy production itself. You said just before that in the process of production, this efficiency is quite low and that there are developments in the science of new technology that are far more efficient and in this sense we need our energy plants to apply these new technologies, which will make them too. Energy efficiency in transport, i.e. transport, has also been processed. A very high percentage of energy is spent in transport itself, where very high savings can be made. What is most important to us is to provide financial support for the implementation of these measures through the establishment of a budget fund for implementing energy efficiency measures and through incentive measures to implement energy efficiency in the form of tax, customs and other incentives. What's one of my first remarks is that in the part that talks about tax, customs and other reliefs, except for the principle of a provision that tax, customs and other reliefs can be determined, don't say anything more about it. I suppose that material is regulated by some other laws, but it could at least indicate for which types of products or insulation, construction and other materials and measures should be envisaged, especially in the light of the fact that according to the energy development strategy, a strategy programme through the implementation of measures in the construction of light bulbs, by applying standards in terms of building through the insulation of buildings, the replacement of carpentry or other measures can make an incredible savings of as many as 10,000 gigawatts of hours of energy, which corresponds to the annual savings of 350m euros per year, which represents an extremely large amount of money. For example, Serbia is in charge of 350m euros to build a highway from Belgrade to Cacak. Imagine on an annual level if we could save as much money as we could build highways, not to waste so much energy. It's a theoretical number. But through the implementation of all measures, you can even think about it that way. As far as energy efficiency is concerned in construction, it is necessary to stimulate citizens and households to apply all energy efficiency measures through the replacement of carpentry, quality building material, but also through insulation of buildings that are today the biggest energy destroyers. I assume that through sublegal acts and acts on the establishment of a budget fund for energy efficiency, you will be more elaborated. Citizens think similarly, especially if energy prices are rising, and they will likely rise in the future. It will have the motive to apply all these measures, but they will also need financial support in terms of cheap or unambiguous loans, in the form of tax relief, VAT releases from some products used for isolation. So it is necessary to pump as much money into that budget fund as possible to make the effects much bigger. Unfortunately, the law does not discuss how much money the budget fund will have. Probably couldn't have been otherwise predicted. One of our remarks is that when it comes to the budget fund, it is not envisaged that the budget fund can be charged from various environmental taxis from those producing energy, emit harmful gases, so that fuel tax, coal consumption tax or any other energy source can be foreseen. That would make the fund more predictable and stable, more money in the fund. This predictability that a certain amount of money for the Energy Efficiency Budget will be allocated to the state budget is quite, in my opinion, an air-conditioned matter, given the state of our budget and given that, unfortunately, the budget is well filled with loans from the state to maintain the basic activities of the state. Another of the objections specifically to this law is Article 54, as well as Article 55, which speak about the control of the heating and boiler system and the control of the air conditioning system, where it is envisaged that all households that have boilers greater than 20 kilowatts are obliged to ensure that boiler control is carried out, which I do not think is even rational or directed, given that this number of households is extremely high. We're going to create a great administration and bureaucracy, that anyone who heats up over the central boiler must also have this coercion to control its efficiency, very often and to pay an adequate fee for it. The same observation also applies to Article 55, which refers to air conditioning systems, where it is said that the owner of an facility or part of an object where a nominal cooling power air conditioning system greater than 12 kilowatts is installed is required to ensure that regular controls are carried out. It will turn out that every house will have to control its air conditioning. I think it was far more meaningful that the legislation applied to central cooling systems, not just to individual ones. After all, these cooling systems, which are provided for in Article 55 here, are electrical devices that have their energy class when buying. I don't see the purpose of why someone would have to control next to the manufacturer's certificate, which guarantees that a particular product has a certain quality, or energy class. Finally, the DSS believes that this law is very important and many of its provisions are very well processed. We don't like it, and we don't think it's wise, even for you, as a minister, that in each other, the third member is told that the minister prescribes closer conditions for patterns, prescribes closer conditions for the appearance of the report, etc. I think that's what the ministry and your associates are supposed to do, and the minister needs to deal with strategic matters, as far as energy is concerned, not individual matters. As far as the DSS is concerned, we have submitted a dozen amendments and in line with what will happen to these amendments, whether they will be accepted or not, we will be defined in the voting day whether we will support it. I would like to express my satisfaction that the law has finally come before the MPs and will finally be adopted with the hope that the budget fund, which is in fact the main support for law enforcement, will be adequately filled in to implement these measures as soon as possible and that the benefits will be visible as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12903	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12904	Most of the things I agree with you, but let me just fill in on the tax and customs reliefs you mentioned. They will certainly be governed by a sublegal act within 12 months. It is in the transitional provisions that these members of the law are written that within 12 months, the sublegal act will be brought in. With regard to the budget fund, it will not only be charged through the budget, i.e. by deriving money from the budget, but also through donations and loans, and what we have also put into law. As far as control is concerned, that air conditioning control over 12 kilowatts or 20 kilowatt boilers, that's 100 squares of apartments, buildings, houses, anyway, or 150 if it's the climate. Of course, we have to control whatever certificate you mentioned. It's our opinion that we wouldn't even have a problem with the service contracts we're likely to talk about, it's a necessary part of the control. We may later come to a conclusion in the future that it is too much for us, but for now, by all the estimates we are doing, it seems necessary to do so. That's not a low limit, I said 100-150 squares. That's not small.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12905	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12906	Thank you for your answer. I understood that sublaws would be arranged, not only for these things concerning customs and tax benefits, but also for other things. I have a remark that 12 months is a long and long time. We talked about the law being necessary long before. For three years, he stands in the ministry, not in front of MPs, will now be adopted, and only in a year or longer, underlegal acts will be brought in. I suppose the ministry with its capacities will do everything possible to make these deadlines shorter, but I mean, not just those substances, many members predict a 12-month deadline, which I think is a long time. There are far more appropriate deadlines than three to six months that can be applied in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12907	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12908	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is in front of us today on the agenda of the Energy Efficiency Act. This law, as explained, was prepared by the previous government and, with some minor changes, put it into the new government’s assembly procedure. It is also known that the 2011 law is based on a study funded by the Japanese government, i.e. the Japanese International Co-operation Agency. However, as it happens with this government, as well as with this ministry, everything that is possible to reverse, even what is well done, they succeed. A few examples that I'm going to make in this law are very good witnesses. The basic observation is that he is not in existence with the Energy Act and that he is fundamental, I would say, the observation that the application of this law is going to be there for a year and a half, like the other day when we discussed public notebooks, so it is said that a year has been delayed, and even the media have passed that application has been delayed for a year and you have voted in the amendment that the application of this law has been delayed for a year and a half. It is not excluded that the application of the key provisions of this law will be postponed for two years and after two years who knows what other time. I'll tell you, Minister, what key provisions I mean. The Democratic Party advocates, it is not controversial, for measures that would lead to increased security in energy supply, of course and more efficient energy use, but the key thing, which DS insisted and insists on, is to allow consumers to pay spent energy in the amount they spent, rather than on the basis of flat-rate estimates, and most often on a square metre basis. We certainly advocate a reduction, i.e. a downturn to a minimum of energy waste. We're not such a rich country to open windows when we want to cut the temperature in apartments, not live in an apartment for a month without the apartment heating up. We're not so rich that we can't, on the other hand, be poor enough to invest money in window repair, in house isolation to save more energy. That's what all rich countries do, and that's why they're rich. However, this law does not go towards that goal. I said some of the key provisions, which this government has managed to break a good law, are the fact that the deadline for applying the law relating to the mandatory formation of tariff rules, the adoption by local self-government, which is regulated in Article 51 of this Law. It says that the application of the tariff system, referred to in Article 47(1) of this law, will take place within the time limit prescribed by the competent authority of the local self-government unit, which cannot be longer than 18 months from the date of entry into force of this law. Now I ask you, Madam Minister, why, when certain local operators, or heat suppliers, have the opportunity at this time to measure, or load spent heat energy, to charge it by consumption, to enable the savings of heat energy and what I just said, to avoid the waste of heat from the window? Why didn't you give such a legal obligation to commit all operators, i.e. heat suppliers that have calories installed at this point, as they are popularly called, to substations, or at the entrance to the building, which is why you didn't give them time to provide measurements by the next heating season, reading heat energy that way? It's okay for 18 months for those who don't have the ability to read spent heat now. However, since I worked in this sector, I know that there are at least ten cities where heat is already available. True, perhaps not at the level of an apartment, but certainly at the level of a building building as a whole. This would already allow people to save heat and therefore to pay less through the installation of heat regulators. On the other hand, you've defined spending and price formation in one very, very, very old-fashioned way, in an archaic way. In Article 47, you say, the competent authorities of the unit of local self-government are obliged to include in the tariff system remote heating services as one of the elements for the calculation of the prices of the service heated and calmed, i.e. really handed over the amount of heat energy. What does that mean? That heat consumption is only one parameter in the price of heat energy. This means that you continue to retain in the legal system engaged power, square meters, any other parameters that local self-government can include through tariff regulations. If that weren't the case, then this article would say that the basic category of heat collection is spent heat energy. Then it wouldn't matter how much someone spends heat energy, but it would be the basic parameters for pricing, or at least, 70% of the total price. On the other hand, I would say that where you could not have adapted this law to the conditions in force in Serbia, the fact that material conditions, above all I am talking about the energy potential of the recipient, are not adequate and should be raised. Also, you haven't done enough of this law to prescribe the obligation of local self-government, if you want states, or distributors, to build awareness of the necessity of saving heat and all other kinds of energy. So I tied myself to heat when I was talking about examples of all other kinds of energy. In this sense, there are no provisions of an imperative nature which would in some way be required by preschools, primary schools in education for the necessity of saving heat, or energy at all. When it comes to environmental protection, it certainly is very important to reduce emissions of harmful gases into the air through energy savings. However, you may do so by increasing the allowed levels of aero-pollution, as you have dealt with specifically in the case of the presence of aflatoxin in milk. By the way, I have one question, Madam Minister, did you vote for that famous regulation when it comes to a ten-fold increase in aflatoxin in milk? You're not pleading? But it doesn't matter, it has to do with this law. So other ministers in the region, for example, have suggested that this milk, which is toxic to humans, is spent as fuel, or spent as energy. Why didn't you do it? Okay, for one reason, because you don't have such facilities to do it in, but maybe you could export that carcinogenic milk, not import carcinogenic milk into Serbia. When it comes to competitiveness and cogeneration, which has been said a lot here, I am surprised to tell you, the attacks you and your colleague from New Serbia referred to at the expense of former minister, Mr Skundric, while he was not in the O.R. I think you looked back at the fund, that he insisted that it be a fund with some organs, bodies, etc. But you haven't escaped from the fund again, and in this law you plan to form a budget fund. You said only with the structure of employees, probably, without leadership, because you as minister will manage that fund. Let me remind you that you have promised not to know how many agencies you will have abolished, you have abolished only six out of 130-140, and today you are introducing a new fund through this law. What are the experiences of the world on this matter, and where should we strive? We should certainly, as Mr Skundric said, compare ourselves with Denmark, but we must also raise awareness. I had a chance, say, to be in a town in Denmark, in Ohio. I visited their heat, and they, like, heat up the main street. So, the main promenade in that town is heating up. On the other hand, they don't waste heat, electricity in other ways. They save in one place, and in another they use where it is very useful for citizens. Do they keep the lights on all day in the halls? No, only when there's a living creature in the halls, or man. Do they heat apartments when people don't stay in their apartment? No, they warm apartments as long as they need and how polite it is for them. That's why I insist that you apply the law where possible from the next heating season. You have all the possible elements for that. You have the Energy Act, you have the law that we now pass, you have even in some cities already adopted tariff regulations, which are somewhat in accordance with this law, the truth, much stricter and more rigorous because as a basic parameter, they take heat consumption, and you kind of relativated it. This law does not give a very good answer to all questions when it comes to sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of this law. That is, for example, a provision that sanctions non-compliance with the said article that it is necessary to apply the tariff rule, as you have written, is a penalty of one to three million for a legal person. Remember that legal entities that are energy distributors have the most frequent profits in large cities, Novi Sad, Belgrade, which is more than a billion dinars and more. What's a fine of one to three million for them, in case they don't apply the tariff rule? For a responsible person, it's 100 to 200 grand. I think they'll be free not to apply that tariff rule, and even if this law comes into force, as you said, for 18 months, that we understand each other, in that part that, in my opinion, is crucial. So in that part where you cross, where you take the first step and measure heat per consumption. I believe that the state should encourage users of heat energy to build calories and that the provisions should be more explicit, in terms of state, local self-government and local operator assistance, in that sense, because you will have problems in collective housing. That question was not resolved by this law, difficult and can be solved. What if 99% of the residents in one building want to install calories and heat regulators, and 1%, say, doesn't want to do it? On the other hand, you did not provide one key thing, which is that applying the tariff rule, at which heat consumption would be one of the basics, does not mean for users a higher price. So, if I've paid 5,000 dinars so far, the heat that's been charged per square metre, and tomorrow, when you start reading by consumption, I'm going to pay 7,000 dinars, so if I don't touch the heat meter, so if I heat up the same way, what kind of stimulation am I going to have to introduce heat meterers? In this regard, I believe that one provision prohibiting operators from using energy price increases at the moment of the introduction of the new tariff system, therefore, is necessary not to use energy prices. In the end, the DS submitted several amendments. I have drawn attention to, for us, the most important issues, these are deadlines, but also some issues concerning the possibilities and rights of an autonomous province to regulate some areas of energy efficiency. Depending on that, the DS will decide in voting day, but such a law, without correction, will not be able to support it. Thank you. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12909	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you were obliged to warn the previous speaker, which, by Article 106(1) and Article 107(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it presents here facts that may upset the local public, especially when it mentions "milk poison" because it seems to me, on this poison, no—it seems to me, but I am quite certain, grown up, since that rule was valid until two years ago. Likewise, when making those statements, it should be kept in mind that some very serious countries can be resented, where the provisions that we now have are identical to those of us. I can understand that you don't consider the Russian Federation a serious country, but I can't understand that you consider it a non-serious country, let's say, Canada, which, apparently, doesn't care about its citizens, but allows them to drink poison. Whether or not the rule is respected, I am always prepared, that anyone who is a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia should answer why he was unable to comply with the rule. The EU has also given a certain transitional period for national laboratories to prepare for such a thing, and your government has passed a rule that, with those funds it had at the time of its adoption, the state could not exercise one such control. Of course, that doesn't justify the current government's failures to control the rules. This famous alphatoxin, as it is already called, as far as we know now, is the only one laboratory that can control the EU. I am also prepared to conduct a discussion of what the veterinary inspection was doing when the meat was imported, whether it was controlled, especially while he was the minister of your party's flock.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12911	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. I figured out the previous exhibitor, that he used it, was talking about milk, but because of its use for energy purposes, when it comes to it. I must confess that you have taken the opportunity to give a replica through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking, do you think we should plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to a replica. I won't let you. He has the word of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12912	Thank you very much. At the very beginning, let me tell you, my dear MP, we are not at the market, because when you ask me if I voted in favour of the regulation, or regulation, as you called it, you're telling me with your head, I don't think it's correct. I always wait for everyone to say everything they have, so I answer. For your information, it's not a regulation, it's a regulation. It's made by a resorient ministry, and the government doesn't make decisions here. Furthermore, when you were talking about this law that there are no minor changes in this law, I must immediately tell you that it is absolutely not true. There are huge changes in this law, compared to the various proposals that existed in the previous period. I'm not going to ask you, since you were part of the government, or you did government, why didn't you pass this law earlier because Serbia could have, in recent years, had such a law, been completely energy-resistant. You didn't bring it, and the changes are huge. It concerns both the energy managers and the budget fund of a different and those criminal provisions which I will definitely touch, because you spoke of them as well. When you're talking about measuring by energy consumption, I have to tell you first that out of 57 heat, today in Serbia seven are using it anyway. We just months ago, in agreement with the Toplan Association, agreed, so, in addition to that regulation we gave, we gave them the tariff system, therefore, the rule to adopt in their heat. It is not all that simple, given the state of public utility companies, primarily heat, in Serbia. It's easier somewhere, it's harder somewhere, but it's definitely going to be binding. Under this law, in 2015, all must be measured at cost. It's pretty clear to everyone, but I can't do it alone. Although local self-government is now in charge of heat, which has proved to be not good for energy security, we are here to help in this regard. So the heat certainly won't be alone in that part. It's the state, I've already announced, that will help install the central calories into all the buildings, precisely because the heat could adjust as soon as possible and start measuring at cost, which I think is certainly significant. When you speak, you know that DS advocates that consumers have the opportunity to pay for spent energy, now I ask you – what have you been doing all these years? Why didn't you deal with it? You say you're in favor of not wasting your energy. What have you been doing in the past few years? So so much the previous government could do, precisely in the field of energy policy, especially in the area of energy efficiency. She didn't do it, you didn't do it. So, the criticisms of this kind, I'm glad you're up for it, and it's a great thing to advocate an increase in energy efficiency, to measure by consumption, to use rational energy, but it has to be done. We've sat down and done and tied to heat that isn't in our jurisdiction regarding this law. The complete novelty is the budget fund. I also understand when you say that we were here explaining that it was some organs. No, it's not about some bodies, but, you know, the predecessor's proposal was a fund that was supposed to exist, like I said, to repeat once again, the board of directors, the whole administration. In our proposal, it is a budget fund, which is only one item in the budget and I believe you like the first proposal much more. It is the same proposal as the Environmental Protection Fund, in which your member, Mr. Dulic, was president of the board of directors and there were amazing rules. So, let me repeat once again, that the fund will co-finance certain projects, so there is no public call in this sense, so there is no public call when the fund, let's say, subfinances 1% of the project, such funds were once, now it's not such a case, that I'm not talking about the chairman of the board of directors, after the decision of the state auditor, lost the right to sign, just as the chairman of the board of directors of the fund. So, such a fund is not, this is a completely different kind of fund, this is a fund that only has its own account, where projects in the field of energy efficiency will certainly be financed. What I think is still significant, because you showed it and said that you think there are problems in the law itself, is a question of building awareness and you said that it should be regulated by law to do various campaigns, etc. I don't agree that it should be prescribed by law, I believe that you're bonding again -- let's clean up Serbia and the various campaigns that existed, so they looked like they looked and to repeat, a lot of money went through those campaigns. In this sense, it won't be like that. So, we have also connected with the Conference of Permanent Cities and Municipalities and with all local self-governments and cities, it is in everyone's interest that this law be brought to life and it is in everyone's interest to do absolutely everything, so through certain information, that citizens and businesses know what this law can do to them. That's where I'd be, if I skipped something, you remind me, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12913	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12914	Minister, we're not at the market. Please don't insult the National Assembly, we're in the National Assembly, I asked you nicely. I, through public means of information, as well as all MPs sitting here, heard Minister Knezevic say the government made a decision, may be one more of the lies he's been making lately. On the other hand, when it comes to the fund, I didn't mean the Environment Fund, and it's true that since you're in the minister's seat, Serbia is not cleaning up, that measuring devices, for example, in Pancheva for measuring air pollution are not working. On the other hand, toxin, for those who don't know the meaning of poison when I was talking about poison.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12915	Please leave the milk now, come back to the topic, and if you want to discuss alphaoxin and milk now, then it won't take us anywhere. Please, get back on the subject and I'll let you really, that if it's a matter of which is on the agenda you talk as much as you want, within the limits of your time, but I'm asking you to put the milk aside, at least for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12916	Unfortunately, the citizens had to put the milk aside, but I have to answer the minister to a lie she really said. It is not true that the previous government has done nothing to energy efficiency. Minister, if you've had any energy tracking, you should know that's not true in the past. Hundreds of kilometers of pipes released, every ten meters, were changed, hundreds of kilometers of pipes replaced, pre-exposed pipes, with a loss of up to 30% on those pipes. With the help of KF, with the help of Germany and with the help of some other European countries. They are even installed in some cities of calories with this help, even bodies for the regulation of heat. You can't say that the previous government didn't do it, it passed all the laws, and this law would have passed, if you were to say that Mr. Skundric wasn't making some kind of a problem. You took my minute. I mentioned milk only in the context, chairing, that some countries used it as energy and that is the topic of today's agenda, and that some use it as Serbia for feeding children, while the international community banned over 0.25% of milk use.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12917	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12918	Thank you very much. Far from respecting the National Assembly, I respect it very much, and that's why I've been here all day, just to present a very important system law on energy efficiency. When I told you we weren't at the market, I told you because you asked me a question by jerking my head, whether I voted for something or not. You can't do that. Ask me, I'll answer you afterwards. I guess it's a normal thing, and you've come to the conclusion whether or not I voted. And you know that's right. Next thing you know, the measuring devices you mention in Pancheva, and I'm glad you mentioned it, not only in Pancheva, but in general the measuring devices and how the measuring devices will be financed and how this work will continue. The only problem was that someone who dealt with it, so at a monthly level, got 700,000 dinars, one single company and the company's CEO, who is employed in another institution, called the Hydrometeorological Institute. If you think it's normal, I don't think it is and that's why there's been a delay in what's called and it's the problem of measuring devices, but it'll be solved. As for that, it's stopped cleaning Serbia since the new government, since I'm a minister, I have to tell you, you've been really great at cleaning up money, but in what's called – cleaning Serbia, it's a shame, because from the waste dumps that haven't been finished, from the plans that existed, so take the plans of the previous government, take what should have been done, and it wasn't done, believe me, I'm sure you won't like it. Therefore, another thing that is important for energy efficiency, sporadic things, sporadic projects that are good, but they are not as controversial as they can help raise the country's energy efficiency. That's why this law is important, which is why it had to be passed much earlier in order to simply raise energy efficiency at the state level. She can't do it for one or two years and I totally agree, but she could for the past ten years or she could for the previous six or seven. We could have, if we had the law six years ago, Serbia wouldn't have a problem with electricity imports and Serbia would have had a safe fall in harmful gas emissions and that's exactly what we've determined, about 12% to 15%. I'm sorry, that's not a small thing. We didn't bring it, and here we are talking about it today. But what I'm saying is that we could have done so much better in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12919	According to the Rules of Procedure, Marjan Risticevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not report that the subject imposed on the other side is not exactly a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Members 106 and 107. So for the second time, the speaker doesn't stick to the agenda and talks about milk. Since I am a professional farmer, this turning away from the topic brings me and my colleagues irreparable damage. The truth is, in order for there to be no confusion in the public, we're obliged to say that two years ago, the former government rewritten one of the rules on milk, but she forgot to rewrite the rule... (President: Mr. Risticevic please don't use a breach of the Rules of Procedure now...) Hold on, please. Please let him, and you won't let me tell you what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. (President: I allow you to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure but now the replica is not correct, then you are violating the Rules of Procedure. I'm talking about what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is. So the speaker was talking about milk being poison. So he wasn't talking about the subject of the agenda, and not talking about the subject of the agenda is causing us irreparable damage. Because of the collapsing of the rule that we admit was a mistake, because milk is not high enough, but it's safe to eat, so this is where it's made... . (Chairman: Please, Risticevic.) Let me finish. So, it turns off the agenda when it suits them, and I try to explain it. I'm just saying that because of that policy, we've burned 900,000 cows to 400,000 cows. They were so fond of the cow's campaign, but now you're almost making a real cow. So, I'm obliged to say that because I'm professionally tied to that production. So, I haven't strayed from the subject of the agenda, the previous speakers have turned and I won't talk about this unless they cause a new breach of the Rules of Procedure, or by advertising my new breach of the Rules of Procedure unless they challenge their performance. My intention is not to talk about milk, but this is the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12921	Time, Ristichevich. First of all, let me get this straight. I've made an earlier statement when it came to the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12922	I'm not asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12923	Secondly, the speaker can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I can hurt him as chairman. Therefore, I believe there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you think we should plead in the voting day. You don't have to, thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, on what basis are you answering? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: The DS is mentioned in a negative context. ) I must tell you, the authorised representative is Janko Veselinović. I will not allow you a replica and Janko Veselinovic can reply on any issue, he is authorized. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the site: You are wrong to check the Rules of Procedure. I think I'm right, you've authorized a representative and you can't do it two ways now. Come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12924	So, when the party is mentioned, the head of the parliamentary group has the right to speak. That's confirmed by both practice and Rules of Procedure, and I don't know what the problem is. So, mentioning milk in the context of energy is one thing. Opening a discussion in a completely different direction is another matter. I have to say, the minister here brought out things that had nothing to do with this subject and opened this problem. It teaches us, who cleaned Serbia and how they clean Serbia, and climates with their heads and whether to nod. First, the problem, everything that was related to energy and efficiency, has been prepared by the previous government. If you have a problem with lateness, lack of realization, there is Mr. Skundric, and we have repeated that several times. That perfidious plan of yours, that's all DS, it's not gonna work, it can't. All those who were in power with us are now with you. You have abolished the fund that was mentioned earlier for environmental protection, implement these things in a way that makes Serbia dirtier than ever, and that's the fact and then your answer to our criticism and the argument, you cleaning up, cleaning up money. Please don't wait until we see what you're going to do to clean up, except for the Serbian citizens' wallet waiting for your arrest announcements, and they don't have a dinar in their wallet, because there's no one here to come and then off topic to open up the issue again about trying to criminalize an entire political organization and that someone thinks we're going to listen to it here and smile at you. Keep an eye out, if we stick to the subject, stick to the subject, get out of the flat.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12925	I have to make one comment, first your representative opened the subject in a discreet manner and challenged the other MPs and I ask you to keep an eye on yourself. The first word is Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12926	Dear Mr. Stefanovic, the wallet of Serbian citizens has unfortunately cleared the previous government in which your party was, unfortunately, cleared the previous government in which your party was the headquarters of the government. The second thing, when you say what I am now interested in from the domain of the ministry that I run, when you say that Serbia is dirtier than ever, I ask you to tell me on the basis of what information, where your data is, where these facts are, because I would just say that the previous six months are really cleaning Serbia or at least we're moving into it, because everything that was planned or at least 80% or less, which was planned in the previous government to do in those years, while the previous government, I have to tell you that it's not over, and there's no report on why it's not finished. So one thing is true, and that's that now or I in my portfolio, especially in the area of the environment, I'm dealing with cleaning up a lot of screw-ups from the previous period. So when you say that Serbia is dirtier than ever, I'm just telling you, give me the data, give me what's now dirtier than it was, and I'll give you the opposite of what's better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12927	The word has Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12928	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when you clean up, you have more ways of cleaning up, someone's been talking about money, that we're stealing from the empty wallets, we're not emptying them, but some previous government, someone's been cleaning Serbia out of the trash, someone's been cleaning up, say, nitrogens, and it's just the former minister from your party, at least that's what the prosecutor suspected. All the vaults were cleaned during the previous government, so in the end you cleaned up your own party and don't get anyone else involved in it. Please, and this now increased tax rate, not the duties we've been making, but we're paying off the loans that you've been making and that's the problem. And the way you've been raising your loans is also about how you're in a blockade right now because you've raised more than you can pay for it, so you've done it with your own party, and then you're offering Serbia a plan for economic recovery, and you didn't know that you're saving what we're dealing with politics think of as our second family, which is the party from which we're sent to be the MPs here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12929	Replica Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12930	That's one, indeed, Mr. Arsic, and I'm sorry to have to say, this is beneath every level you've said. I've heard a lot from you so far. We've really been through a lot of different stages. Today we've been through a bumping head, but what I can't understand is that you're pointing simply at us now completely out of context again to a simple question about both this law and everything else. The charges are being re-launched, false re-started, re-started – you took the loan. You know what, Mr. Arsic, it's hard for us to repay the loan because I don't know how you went through the campaign, I know that Milan Beko and Miskovic didn't pay us unlike you. You understand, that's why it's hard for us to pay. But you'll understand that after you cleaned the tycoons up to 50%, and you didn't clear 50%. So when you clean up those other 50%, then you can talk about cleaning. When they are condemned, then come and turn to us, and until then, do not be insinuate this people. Serbia is dirtier than ever, and on the other hand, I'm sorry, and I'm kind of glad you said this, because it shows you're not moving around this country enough. If you were moving around this country, you'd see garbage everywhere and wild dumps. Let's say, on the way to Zrenjanin, where Mr. Knezevic has his own party and personal base you can see piles of garbage all the way from both sides of the road. You've got six wild dumps all over the way completely unregulated. So it's really not a fabrication. I think it's harmful, if the people are watching this and you say it's not true that it's dirtier. No, check with your associates, at the very least go out with people, and look at the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12931	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12932	About how you repay your loans, how much money you spent on the campaign, I guess we'll find out one time, because, by what we had a chance to add up, that's a lot more than you showed. But when you talk about dirty Serbia, I'll tell you now. During the previous minister who was a member of your party, it was necessary to do 12 dumps. There was enough money, and there was a Environmental Protection Fund that had seven billion dinars annually. Seriously, seven billion dinars. It's not a little bit. There are four done. The rest aren't done. Not to mention the dump in Subotica, where we can't figure out which company it's working with, whose father it is, etc., which, of course, is why they're stalling. When I mention something that was not by law or by law, I mention why it extends the deadlines of application. That's what I'm interested in, as a minister, when will things be over? When you mention wild dumps, etc., inspections came out, not only in Zrenjanin, but elsewhere. The local self-governments responsible for what you're saying along the way have received their sentences. If that doesn't end, there are other ways. But I can never agree that Serbia is dirtier now. I can agree that there are many more accumulated problems than that, let's just say, we started dealing with them much earlier, and we weren't dealing with spending things on anything other than what's most important, which is dumps, recycling centres and, of course, cleaning these black holes that definitely exist in Serbia, from Bor, Panchev, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12933	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to who funded the SNS, I find it a little funny and your claims that we've taken money from these people. If we were, they wouldn't be allowed to do anything. What would someone give money to some opposition party? Why didn't you do something to them? Why aren't you all these affairs that are now opening up then you've been processing? That's not something that happened yesterday. You had four years to question all this. Then you give me the right to doubt that you had any dealings with them, or to talk again about the Agrobank, the Vojvodina Development Bank, the Azotari, the dumps. Let's talk about it. Shall we talk about the Clean Serbia campaign? Half a million euros for posters? Shall we talk about the dirty campaign led against Tomislav Nikolic, then the candidate for president of the Republic, how much money did you spend here? Who paid for it? This is what Serbian citizens pay for, and has been paid earlier from the Serbian budget, from public enterprises and institutions both at local level and at the republic's level. It was all very small for you. Obviously, at least when these things, such as party financing, such as commissions, are obviously nothing we owe to anyone and we can stop at any one of them. Obviously you couldn't do it, but that's your problem now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12935	Thank you. We're done with the replicas, we're going on the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12936	Dear President-in-Office, respected Minister Mihajlovic, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, to return to the topic today and discuss today's draft law on rational use of energy based on a proposal from the Ministry that we discussed in principle on the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy today. The legal framework, i.e. the basis for which the draft law today is on the agenda, comes from the time of 2005, based on the Energy Development Strategy by 2015. Then, based on the programme to implement this strategy since 2007 and the Action Plan for implementing this strategy, also since 2007. There is a fundamental answer that there is some break from 2007 to 2013 that the current ministry has ultimately prepared in an adequate, complete way. The law is set out in some seven chapters that involve a policy of energy efficiency, the introduction of a new system of energy efficiency in general, as an economy in a complete society, because this sector, which will in some way touch all the activities in the Republic of Serbia, then define the part that implies the level of energy efficiency and the part that is most interesting, is the way of funding, as well as certain criminal provisions. On energy efficiency savings at all, we've had a lot of opportunities today to hear and how it's going to be implemented, but that part that I don't think we've discussed at all, that's what this law brings as one basis in the future at all, as one generator for the economic development of this country? At the beginning of this public debate, representatives of individual parliamentary groups said this law would indeed create the possibility of some new production capacities, which would give production of some materials that would be consistent with energy efficiency, on the one hand. On the other hand, somewhere it will launch a complete application of new technologies, not only in construction but also in industrial production itself. Thus, if you are the generator of economic development, that means opening new jobs. Often in the EU, even in the countries of the region, the so-called "green jobs." These are essentially such jobs, which will be the drivers of the system, while accepting the principles of energy efficiency. Not only are we talking about the principles of energy efficiency, this is also evidenced by all the principles of sustainable development and green economy, which also includes this bill, which was part of the 2007 Action Plan and the 2007 Action Plan, which is based on the principle prescribed by the Green Paper, which implies all of this, which was published by the EU in 2007 and in which Serbia's representatives also participated. Today, otherwise, representatives of this parliament hosted certain public hearings, energy seminars. They were invited as all representatives of the Western Balkan countries in Brussels. We had a chance to hear what was going on in the region. What's some tendency, that's that the principles of energy efficiency are, by default, one. Two, all of what we heard about renewable energy sources and in general the forms of electricity production participation, the EU has accepted somewhere, dictated the pace that there are combined approaches, that there are both renewable sources and thermal power plants and gas power plants, but also combined so-called. "energy", which will be in the function of discharging practically existing non-renewable energy sources. In this public hearing and in that discussion, we could hear that both our neighbours, or countries in the region, have perhaps much more problems than ourselves. We could hear that energy efficiency is practically one hard job, especially for developing countries, and we as a country in the Western Balkans region are still somewhere in this economic development with a small degree of economic growth, meaning somewhere between 1.5% and 2%, so our wishes are to go from 1.2% to 2% on an annual basis. Then we can talk about that essentially this law is the basis for a new era that is coming, but for a new concept that obviously the previous government did not understand. Energy efficiency isn't just a pipe replacement. So energy efficiency isn't just a window replacement. It is simply that approach in general for citizens of Serbia, businessmen, ultimately the state itself, to accept all these new technologies that include new materials, ways of organisation and society itself and businesses. This also introduces the energy manager, i.e. energy management, both at the state level and in local self-government. This law is a fundamentally good basis for all that awaits us, and we are waiting for different types of investment and investment, specifically in local self-government in the field of energy efficiency where then the ministry will normally have to have a connection and this energy manager, who simply introduces this law as someone who will be connected through a certain kind of report, but also the organisation of this whole job. There is another new concept, and it is an energy adviser who will also be tied to local self-government. Under the current proposal, he will not be newly employed, or for the time being he does not answer practically to the mayor, or to any director, and that is good, because the practical profession should in some way win politics. On the other hand, you already have the continuity of the last two years of training that has been held in the Serbian Chamber of Engineering for Licenses to engineers of all technical professions, which will work on studies on the energy efficiency of all objects. What is interesting is that this law did not decidently divide, but I think it will certainly be divided into public buildings by certain sublaws, those relating to the industry itself, that is, the economy, that is, commercially and those relating to the household, that is, the population. If we looked at how much savings we would make with the use of energy efficiency in public buildings, then we would see that 30% of electricity savings would practically relax Serbia's budget on the basis of its electricity bills. If the economy introduced approximately the so-called "clean development management system", and that is all that means new technologies, and with them normal and energy efficiency and energy managers in each of the companies that would adequately organise rational use of energy, but also new systems for obtaining recycled products, i.e. environmentally-like products, the economy would also first provide itself with much more growth and thus reduce production costs. Finally, if the public, or the population of any level at all, if we talk about certain social structures, saw for sure that they would want to introduce these new systems in their own home and that system to know how much electricity they spend, how much heat they spend, how much costs, and for the disposal of garbage, then they would come into a situation that they themselves would want to introduce such a system of functioning of their lives and the state would then need in that part to help them with certain subsidized loans. This will be one of the sure next steps in the next five years, as it is not by chance that for the public facilities of the German Agency for the Development of Budgets it is possible to open the possibility that only the introduction of energy efficiency in construction, we talk about public buildings, the possibility of investment in the next five to ten years to a billion euros. So if we're talking about introducing energy efficiency at all, we're talking about a new concept, we're talking about a new view of our lives, the future, but also the possibility of new jobs and an increase in economic growth. For that, Serbia must prepare. Through this proposal, the ministry has given practically one good basis for all of this. Simply, one good attempt to implement the secret concept in Serbia should not be tarnished. Serbia has a good place in the region in general on energy and therefore this has become one necessity in our society. It is true that it has waited a long time for this law, but that is why the need has been growing, that indeed in an adequate way Serbia is approaching all citizens such a legal proposal. Finally, I would say that the European Commission's energy efficiency advice in Brussels has started to hold certain sessions, public hearings and contacts directly with our mayors of large and interesting locations within Serbia, as they have recognised investment opportunities through certain credit lines. This kind of implementation of local self-government will also require practical training and education and continuous education not only of engineers and people who will participate in energy management within local self-government, but also of the officials themselves so that they can cope with this new concept of energy efficiency in Serbia at all. Since these European directives are truly respected in the draft of this law and the procedures of the EU Office, I hope that all parties will support such a bill, because there is no reason for anyone to be decident against, since multiple application of such a law will only bring great economic benefits to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12937	The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12938	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Ministers, Assistants, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in front of a legislative proposal that, in my understanding, should be the beginning of a new life philosophy that should be implemented in our society. When I say "one new life philosophy", I base this statement based on what we can say that we can afford a better and greater comfort of life in this country and in this society or on the basis of larger production and benefits that represents the development of our economy in general, which, at this time, we see, given the state of economy in our society, is very difficult or, on the other hand, on the basis of savings that can be reported as a sign of our good faith that we are citizens of this social community, and that we recognize the appropriate resources and opportunities to increase our savings-based benefits of the entire economy of our society. The aim of this law, which is now before us in the form of this legislative proposal, is primarily to ensure and support the rational and sustainable use of energy both in the area of production and in the area of consumption of that same energy. Since often lately, and especially today, here today, during the debate this law often uses a syntagma of energy efficiency, for the citizens of Serbia and the public to monitor this transfer of the Assembly, it should be said that, simplistically speaking, energy efficiency in one of its segments means saving energy through all segments of our activity, starting with the production of that energy, through our factories, industry and economy in which we are employed and working, to our households where we appear as consumers of that same energy. It doesn't matter if it's electricity, heat or gas as energy resources, it's important that we realize that if we don't have the opportunity to produce new capacities and create new capacities and expand energy production, we can immediately access the process and the process of saving that same energy through an organised system way. That's why I said at the beginning that this is the beginning of a new, actually philosophical approach to the organization of our society in relation to the energy we're going to be holding, I hope it's a success. As the ultimate objective and effect, savings, i.e. the realisation of significant funds, both our personal, individual as citizens and businesses as a whole, and on the basis of this, should be able to create preconditions for opening new jobs using these savings, creating preconditions for building and expanding the capacity of the entire infrastructure, and, of course, no less significant effect would be the protection of the environment, i.e. reducing the carbon dioxide in the air, or our environment. Now that I mention carbon dioxide, I think this is an excellent management process that follows and stems from this law. The reduction in the production of carbon dioxide that is in line with the Kyoto Protocol Convention 10 or 12 years ago and that, based on this, our country will also achieve significant savings in the preferences of the international carbon dioxide market. The mechanisms through which the bill promoter of the Energy Ministry intends to achieve objectives such as, say, providing security and sustainable energy and energy supplies, then reducing energy consumption, and thus also costs for the same energy consumption, encouraging use. A significant effect is also to encourage the use of renewable, or green energy sources, which has also been said significantly in our society lately. I think that citizens and in general businesses, entrepreneurs, businesses will be particularly interested in building their own renewable energy sources on their existing facilities, meaning, using existing resources, and using the same energy in their functioning and work, thus less burdening existing energy and energy sources in terms of thermoelectric or hydroelectric power plants, and again as a final effect, monetary, or financial savings, and, of course, an equally significant product, that is, the result of cleaner, healthier and more orderly environment. The management that will manage these processes, which is foreseen by this legislative proposal, in many local self-governments has remained to a certain extent trained or prepared personnel. Where they are not available, they can quickly be educated and acquired appropriate knowledge and certification so that they can put their skills in the role of achieving these goals that we want to make out of this law. All available resources, which one local community has, I speak intentionally locally because all of them come from individual, local communities, sublimation of all these activities, will naturally occur with maximum and macroeconomic and other effects, will be significant in the function of saving both in the production and industrial facilities themselves, which are one of the obligors of the introduction of management users in energy savings management, i.e. energy efficiency. Then, these are large trade chains, and of course local self-governments, despite this legislative proposal, have been defined as local self-government over 20,000 inhabitants in the local self-government, although an interesting question came up this morning. There are local self-governments in which more temporary residents in the form of tourists appear during certain periods of time. These are some tourist municipalities that have been visited in certain annual periods, so that perhaps we should take a little bit of an analysis and consider what to do in these cases. I am sure that in the local self-governments in the future, they will be more responsible for the issue of energy savings, i.e. efficient management of existing energy potentials used by local self-government. The most banal example, such as that of public lighting burning in midday, will certainly not come forward in the future, but the manager will certainly be responsible through the mechanism of submitting periodic and annual reports to the ministry, for which he will be obliged to deliver. That way, the effects of applying this law itself will be monitored. On the other hand, in the area of production, for example. heat sources in cities that have heat-generating plants in a remote supply function for their customers, by introducing new technologies in the heat-generating process itself, through new technological solutions that will certainly be new for these production units, but they are in science and practice and how they have been known for years, not to say for decades, such as frequency regulators, heat pumps, etc. (President: Time. ) Let me just say that the New Serbia parliamentary group will be happy to support this law, expressing a slight regret about why this legislative proposal has not arrived before, because we are certainly one whole decade behind on such a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12939	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12940	The Honorable President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, although we from LSV come from a party that has no central in Belgrade and we could never reach these Olympic heights of foreign policy with pillars etc. I think the focus of these two points is the agreement with the Russian Federation on gas imports. I am pleased that the minister present, since she understands very well the issues concerning the gas arrangement and as I recall, was personally against the agreement when NIS was donated, which we have repeatedly claimed. We're finally coming up with what is the epilogue of this unprecedented deal under which we're going to have some kind of privileged status on gas imports. With all due respect, except for LDP colleagues, no one has even mentioned this agreement, all the time we talk about whether windows breathe, boiler rooms, etc., we have an agreement that says that we will have to import five billion cubic metres of gas a year, even though domestic consumption, and that is explained, two and a half billion of which is 500 million already from domestic production. At the same time, the energy dispute between Ukraine and Russia is on the subject. Gazprom was invoiced by Ukraine's seven billion dollar penalty for not pulling gas as much as agreed. Serbia's balance sheet situation towards Russia doesn't even need to be talked about, because we have an annual deficit in an external trade ratio of $1 billion. I don't know what exactly we're going to export to the Russian Federation to cover a deficit that will double under this agreement? Parkett, apples, socks, I don't know how many apples we need to take to Russia to cover such a pay balance situation. What are examples in the region, Croatia, for example, is building a LNDž terminal on Krk. I don't know if we're considering diversifying the energy supply, but I didn't hear that we were kind of asking to participate in such projects. Those with Katara are building a project where, although they want to be part of the South Stream, they can also alternatively be supplied. At our place, for now the only thing we can see is the direction of orientation towards the Russian Federation. Basically, what concerns us in some way is that although it is said that annual consumption is twice as much as anticipated, we should buy twice as much gas, because we're going to shut down all of Serbia, but I don't know what data makes such a claim. What is certain is that if this strategy continues, where we will insist on having a negative balance towards the Russian Federation, we will come into a situation that we are in debt slavery and that for this debt today, tomorrow, the Russians may be able to take over our entire energy sector. Then we won't need the Ministry of Energy anymore. We'll only be able to have the Department of Bioenergy, and for energy and energy, we'll be able to just call someone in Moscow, and then they'll tell us how much energy they'll cost, whether we have an energy manager and whether the windows are closed or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12941	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12942	I have to tell you that these energy managers are very important and that, regardless of what you think you have certain political points by talking only about this 10-year gas delivery agreement between the Russian Federation and Serbia, you don't need to diminish the importance of the Energy Efficiency Act, because it's something that Serbia right now needs to bring to Serbia what you're talking about, energy security, among other things. It's one of the key factors. But when you talk about this agreement, for the sake of the public, first I have to ask you to read the terms of the agreement well. Therefore, Article 1 does not say that we have to import five billion, but it reads this way – the delivery of natural gas from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia will take place from 2012 to 2021, up to five billion cubic metres a year. So it could be a billion, it could be a billion and a half, three, four, to five. So we don't have to import five. Like I said before, this is a roof deal. How many years are we going to make, which is why there is no exact amount or exact price in this agreement. So the public company will negotiate the necessary quantities. Today they are much less than they were in the previous period, and I also explained that because the economy simply doesn't work and doesn't work, so that's why the gas needs are less. I agree with you that diversification and route and supplier is necessary, but when you are against, say, the conclusion of such a roof agreement, tell me – what is the alternative? Where do you think we can get gas? Here, when you tell me, let's try it. I told you what was planned. The plan is "South Stream" as the second route, but Nis-Dimitrovgrad is also planned, so, as is the third route, but also another possible supplier. So that's something that's planned. Right now and years ago, there's only one route and one supplier. On the other hand, Vojvodina's been shut down, so how come Vojvodina's getting gas? Only in this way that exists. Also, when you talk about this agreement over these ten years on gas supply and you tie it to an energy agreement, I don't see that there's such a connection between the gas supply agreement, which we need and there's no other way, with the energy agreement. But, well, I know you always like to mention that energy agreement. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12943	Thank you. Gjorge Stojsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12944	Thank you. I wanted to say that if the store goes through the "Yugoros" of the famous, who I don't know what it's for, I understand what he was doing at the time of Mirko Marjanovic and at the time he was made, I don't know what he's doing right now, and in our case, "Srbigas," who's about to be in debt with the greeners, because he can't pay his dues anymore, it was claimed that because we're going to do the deal we did about NIS, that we're going to have some kind of privileged position in getting gas. This agreement, which is a roof, only says that prices and everything else will be further defined by a special contract. So there is no quantitative data other than those five billion, which are very clearly defined, but everything else is said to be arranged in special contracts. The question is then – what do we need the roof agreement, if the price is not agreed and practically nothing else is agreed except where it is said that we will buy gas from Russia, but everything else will be specified between "Yugorosgas" and "Srbigas". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12945	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12946	Just a little supplement. These roof contracts have almost all the countries of Eastern Europe, and that is, the Gazprom strategy, and, again, to go back to it, is the only supplier and we can only get gas from it, and we need gas. That's the first thing. Another thing that I think is important, you can't put a price in this contract because that price is simply changing and it wouldn't be good if the roof agreement had the price. Then we'd figure it out and then we'd have a problem with the talks and the negotiations. So, the annual contract, each year, determines the annual contract where the price is negotiated. This year's contract, as far as I'm aware, is $400 per 1,000 cubic meters, but given, let me repeat, because we have a situation that in the previous six months there has been a decline in oil price from nine to 12%, in that sense we will have a lower price of almost $370 per 1,000 cubic metres, which does not mean that 370 will remain, but it will change. For that reason, in an agreement that is roofy, you can't stand that kind of thing. Why is there a deal in the first place? On the one hand, it is because it is a delivery strategy, but on the other hand, to ensure a certain amount of gas that we need. For now, that's our situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12947	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12948	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the concept of energy efficiency of objects is and is not a novelty in the rules for building and maintaining buildings in our country. In fact, a regulation on energy efficiency of buildings has recently entered into force, which defined the obligation to respect the conditions of energy efficiency in designing and building buildings. The law under discussion seeks to raise the area to a higher level, setting high goals in the future. In principle, the concept itself is extremely good because it puts in its focus the use of renewable energy sources in the future and the maximum savings in the use of energy, which represents a huge savings of resources that are becoming less and less in the world, as well as in our country. At the same time, energy is one of the key economic areas, where the increase in energy prices is automatically reflected in price increases in all other industries and is also the most common cause of opening so-called. Inflation spirals. Therefore, the application of such a law is in the interest of all macroeconomic entities in the broadest sense of the word, companies and entrepreneurs, state and state-owned enterprises and citizens. On 25 October 2012, the European Union adopted a directive that entered into force on 4 December 2012. The said Directive lays down new measures in the field of energy efficiency and that is mandatory for all Member States with clearly defined deadlines for their implementation. As the main obligations, as well as the objectives to be achieved, are envisaged, allow only a few: an annual obligation for energy distributors and companies engaged in energy sales to reduce end-users' energy sales by 1.5%, mandatory renovation of 3% of buildings owned by national authorities on an annual basis, a long-term national building renovation strategy, including commercial, residential, public and private buildings. These objectives should be achieved by 2020. With this in mind, this law is in line with the EU Directive and takes the solutions provided for in it, so that, following the possible accession of the Republic of Serbia, its legislation would be fully in line with EU rules. At the same time, we get a modern law that regulates our legislative framework by managing energy and building buildings and introduces the concept of energy efficiency in a comprehensive way. What we would like to point out about this bill and what we would particularly point out is the fact that it must be borne in mind that the solutions provided for by this law are initially, to a large extent, gathering an investment venture to build objects. It is true that the savings generated over time by energy consumption are paid twice as much. However, in a situation where the whole of Europe and our country are presently located and where and how there is a lack of capital, any additional measure that requires more money when investing and building an economy and for citizens is an additional cost. In this respect, it is necessary to promote, in parallel with the introduction of energy efficiency of objects, changes in fiscal regulations and measures of tax and customs policy by producers of energy-efficient materials, investors and owners of energy-efficient objects and to stimulate the consumption of energy obtained from so-called energy. renewable energy sources, and it destimulates the consumption of those obtained from conventional sources. In this way, the best way to promote and assist the implementation of the solutions provided for by this law would be to stimulate consumers themselves to find energy efficient energy consumption models and also to achieve long-term projected goals in the field of environmental protection. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this law in a voting day, as Serbia needs such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12949	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12950	Thank you, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact that this bill on effective energy use today is on the agenda, speaks of the government's understanding of one truth, which is that Serbia is a poor country. And poverty simply generates political instability. So that's quite a crisis for Serbia, and that's why it needs to start with saving. So you started off saving energy and using it efficiently. So much for this law. However, it is really more important to say much more about this framework or roof agreement, as you call it, Madam Minister. But you forgot the same fact, a very important fact to point out, and that's the $30 million. Simply, this agreement will not apply unless Serbia's debt to Russia is paid, up to $30m. So that's something that was missing in this agreement so that we know how and when this agreement will even start to apply. I would not agree with you on the need for this agreement. In fact, this agreement represents only one continuity with the 1995 and 1996 agreements. In fact, on December 31st 2010, the natural gas delivery agreement from Russia ceased to apply and we had no roof framework agreement for two years, so it somehow worked. While we had this framework roof agreement, I would remind you of the year 2009 when we had that terrible gas-delivery crisis, because of some misunderstandings that existed between Russia and Ukraine. So much for the energy security provided by this kind of framework agreement. Another thing that is very characteristic of this agreement, a very short agreement with some nine members, which is to favour the monopoly, and it favors the monopoly of the Russian state-owned company. As far as the monopoly is concerned, it is normal that the consequences will be such that the negative consequences will be suffered by all of us. What else is characteristic of the contract, or of this agreement? That's what you're alleging here, is, you're citing this delivery volume of up to five billion cc's -- okay, there's that word "to." But what is a guarantee and security that when individual annual contracts are made, the one that negotiates on behalf of us Serbian citizens, will not take advantage of the opportunity to contract all these five billion, as far as this framework agreement can and has the space to take over, or contract the amount of gas delivery. There is no guarantee here that it will protect us from, that some irresponsible governing body will decide on our behalf, to little exceed that necessary limit for Russian gas imports. What else is characteristic of this contract? It is very important to note that he remains a mediator. It's the middleman, and I would remind you, Madam Minister, and I really support you there, if you were among the first to say that Serbia really doesn't need a mediator when we talk about Russian gas. However, continuity remains also with regard to this mediator. The mediator is also in the majority ownership of the Russian state-owned company. Look at what it looks like when you have an agreement that favors one side to that extent. In fact, under this agreement, although it is not a single contract and it is not some concrete matter, one thing is yet to be specified, and that is whether gas deliveries will be suspended in case Serbia does not pay for the withdrawn tranche, or the amount of gas. So that's what it's all about. When you look at and carefully read this agreement, you will find all the elements of a single contract that favors one side, which puts a monopoly on one's part and which, in fact, can result in very serious consequences for the economy of Serbia. I wouldn't agree with you if we didn't have a way to avoid that kind of position. There is always the possibility of a choice, there is always one negotiating energy and, above all, taking the interest of this state of Serbia. In this agreement, we haven't seen that interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12951	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12952	When you talk about that monopoly, let me remind you once again, and you tell me now -- what choice is that, and whose gas is that, and what other gas Serbia can use right now? Simply, when you say it like that in the ether, and the citizens of Serbia listen, now please tell me – whose gas, which Serbia can use now, and what other choice is that? If it's someone else's choice, or there's a choice, that's why I've been talking about it for so long. I've said it several times, if it's important, of course it's an important diversion because it gives us a better possibility of negotiations, prices and whatever. But just answer me – which gas and from whom, now for this year 2013, and for 2014? The second thing, when you talk about an agreement with a corresponding protocol for money to be paid, which will be paid annually in wars, is the debts that have been incurred since 1995-2000, and since 2000-2001. I deliberately mention this because you later said in your discussion that gas deliveries could stop because we didn't pay. These debts were created precisely because Yugoslavia stopped paying for gas at the time, and its gas was coming. Of course you have to settle the accounts. I am for that. That's why we asked in certain wars to do it. The second part you mentioned is the story of about five billion, which in Article 1 of the Agreement stands, on the roof, can be negotiated up to five billion cubic meters, and then you stated that some unserious individual will negotiate an annual contract greater than our needs. First of all, we, no matter what you think, are a serious state. Whoever led it, to lead or to lead this country certainly cannot negotiate more than Serbia needs gas. I'll tell you that the annual contract for 2013 is 1.5 billion cubic metres. Serbia used to get 2.2 billion when the economy worked. Annual contracts and details of the annual contract are made much more detailed, and are done by the company involved. One more thing, I find it amazing from the beginning of your discussion, where you say, I quote -- that the government has now given this law on efficient energy use has shown one thing that Serbia is a poor country, and then it generates political instability, so you've now told us that we should save energy. Then you didn't understand at all why this law is in the Assembly, why it is important for all of Serbia, including you as a citizen and everyone. He was not given because it generated political instability. I didn't even realize what you meant by that. The energy efficiency law is one of the pillars of raising Serbia's energy security. So, everything we've done in the past months we'd be doing just because Serbia is a safer energy state. We were doing a full procedure, sublegal acts, all we needed to make more use of renewable energy sources, because that's what we have, and to raise energy security. We put energy efficiency in second place and thus raise energy security. You only tie that up by saying that because somewhere you hear that we are poor, and that's why we're politically unstable, and that's why we're passing a law on rational use of energy. It's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12953	Thank you. Judita Popović, replica
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12954	Dear Madam Minister, let's start with whether Serbia is a serious state. I'd suspect that, given that you're all witnesses of what's been going on with the milk in the last two weeks. A country that showed its approach to this aflatoxin in two weeks, whether or not it has it, whether it's 0.5 or 0.05% of the amount. That says enough about how serious this is. If that can happen with milk, what will happen to the agreed quantities of billions of cc's of gas, which someone can also contract? When you talk about me saying she can stop the gas delivery, she can, but that's what article 4 says without warning. Simply, this agreement allows the Russian partner to simply suspend if he thinks there is a payment problem. When we talk about whether we're a poor country and how we are. Is it necessary to save energy, too, because we don't have such natural resources that can cover all the needs that are being expressed? Yes, it is. Does poverty generate political instability? Yes, it is. That's what you were talking about, Madam Minister, at a meeting. Serbia is poor countries it is a politically unstable country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12955	Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12956	I'm sorry, but yet you haven't answered me what is the alternative, which gas and from which supplier Serbia can obtain in 2013? Say, please, so let's try it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12957	Mrs Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12958	Madam Minister, that's exactly the gas, that's exactly the attitude towards the Russian partner you spoke of until you became minister in this government. That's the fact that this agreement is being concluded for 10 years. It is the fact that for 10 years Serbia will have to respect this agreement. What can happen during that time period? That's what actually leads to the monopoly. That's what makes Serbia's right to vote impossible. I would ask you this question – have you thought about Plan B and have you thought about any alternatives? It is actually your task as Minister and it is the government's task to prevent any kind of adverse consequences after the conclusion of this kind of framework agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12959	Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12960	I didn't get an answer from you again. I'm so sorry. I'll tell you a few things. Of course it is thought of, but I have used it before, since you mention it, that Serbia used Russian gas, and will use it for a long time. Whether it's going to use one, two, three billion or four, if it's possible to build a gas power plant, that's what we're going to see. On the other hand, I mentioned the diversification of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad roads, the possibility of maybe Azerbaijani gas. No one defends Serbia. The moment she has another route, that if it is more favourable to her, one part of the gas will definitely be taken from the Russians, the other from the other route and the other will at all make it possible for Serbia to have lower transport costs through Hungary. We've been serious and we've been taking this very seriously, and you've said very seriously that there's a different option now. I wish there was, but there isn't right now. Right now, we have one route and one gas delivery guy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12961	Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12962	Madam Minister, this simply isn't the SNS's main board. This is Parliament. As a MP, I have the right to ask you questions and I have the right to comment on the bill that you have represented here and which you defend. You do not have the right to challenge any MP to express his political views, his professional views on this kind of agreement that we are talking about today. The fact is, and you didn't deny that this agreement was going to last for 10 years and that we were without a framework agreement for two years. You can't deny it and tell the truth when you say that I mentioned some other kind of gas imports. That's not true. I was just saying that you should do everything possible to disable the monopoly, and the monopoly amongst other things is that you make such a long-term framework agreement within which you can agree, for which contracts this Parliament does not give consent and verification.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12963	Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12964	Of course you can ask questions. You should even ask questions and ask questions. When you get a nice explanation and he says, then I ask you to say it because maybe we don't see it well, maybe we missed something. I ask you again, did you mention that, what other time and what other gas? As far as the government and this ministry are concerned, I've said several times even when we had a draft law on South Stream what the plan is about gas policy. Even this energy efficiency law should allow us to be more efficient and perhaps less concerned with gas imports, because what we import is certainly not ours and we are not automatically safe enough. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12965	Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12966	Thank you. Madam Minister, I would really recommend that you ask Mrs Zorana Mihajlović, the opposition, what she thought about such a kind of legal business regarding the Russian partner, Russian gas, Russian oil, NIS sales, etc. Please read this agreement that you have brought here today to Parliament, read every provision carefully, and I think you will eventually understand everything I told you earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12967	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12968	I have to admit, unlike you, I don't change my mind. This is a gas deal over the next ten years. I also told you, and that's why we made a plan to have other routes. What the previous governments didn't do, we did. I'm also telling you that when you're currently getting one-way gas and when you mention what I was saying, I quoted myself from the previous period, Serbia was using Russian gas, using it, and it's going to use it for many years. Therefore, we are going back to the first question, when you say there is an option of choice, say that choice to the public of Serbia. When Serbia has the choice, I believe it will have it with this government, then we may have Nis-Dimitrovgrad, which could be 2018, so we may be able to negotiate a more favourable price, some other quantity, etc. So everything was taken care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12969	Mrs Popovic, once again I will give you the right to the replica and to complete the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12970	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, it is up to you to work in this Ministry of Energy, it is up to you to find solutions and it is up to you to find the best solutions, and all the problems that have arisen with the last Government, I think you can solve in this government with ministers that have been very much in both the past and the current government. There's also the prime minister, Mr. Dacic, and you have the finance minister, Mr. Dinkic. So you have key people from the previous government that you can consult with and with which you can make a good strategy about both energy efficiency and communication with Russian partners. I remind you of the South Stream of 2009. I really remember how much you were against that South Stream and the offshore company owned predominantly by a foreign state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12971	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12972	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Mrs. Mihajlović, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about the Energy Efficiency Act, the efficient use of energy. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to commend the minister, the rest of the ministry on a very high-quality document that they recommended us to adopt and at the very beginning I would like to say that this is a precise, clear, concise document. The very bill of law has avoided the traps of insanity. So there are no unnecessary things in this law. What I would especially like to praise is the explanation that we, the MPs, have received under this law, which is abundant in a large number of factual data and has made it easier for us to take this very serious matter and a very serious topic. There has been a lot of talk about the law on efficient energy use in recent years, but to this day, our country has not passed that law. As we heard, one of the main obstacles was just disagreements or disagreements around the Fund itself to improve energy efficiency. As I recall, there were discrepancies in the energy management system itself. I'll remind you that the energy management system itself is a central part of this legal solution. At this point, it's clear there was disagreement, but it certainly won't help us, because today we don't have that law and we need to find ways to get to that law. What, apart from these disagreements, in the previous period characterized the whole story of energy efficiency is one of our country's definitions of making some significant steps towards more efficient use of energy. I would like to mention firstly the adoption of certain strategic documents and, firstly, the strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the programme for achieving the strategy itself, as well as a number of other sublegal acts concerning this area. As for some other legal solutions, which are not directly from the field of energy efficiency, I would mention this roof Energy Act, which in one part touched the stories of efficient use of energy in the manufacturing and consumption sector, but did not fully specify the ways in which our country can achieve significant shifts in this area. One of the first laws that mentioned energy efficiency is the Law on Planning and Construction, in that part concerning energy efficiency in building buildings in high construction. So in that part, but once again I say it was not enough to define this area completely. What has also defined this earlier period is a contract signed by the Republic of Serbia, which is the Treaty establishing an energy community between the EU and Serbia, as well as a series of countries in our environment, with which our country has accepted certain obligations, accepting itself the obligations to respect certain directives, namely three directives, the EU. I think this is a good example of a law in which we can show why it is important to adopt certain EU recommendations without being classified under some form of our obligation, that someone imposes some obligations on us, but simply as a need to improve a particular area, and to which those directives apply. During the previous period in a rather superficial way, a story on our country's EU accession was mentioned using day-to-day policy purposes. I am sure that a large number of our citizens did not properly understand why we are joining the EU, why, why this great desire to join and why it is necessary to adopt all these recommendations and directives. It is precisely when we compare the situation in a particular area, in this particular case, in the area of energy efficiency, in the Republic of Serbia with the situation in the EU that it is clear why we need to adopt these recommended directives and why it is good for our country. I will only list some information that will clearly show where our country is at this time, as regards the very efficient use of energy in relation to EU countries. Energy intensity or the relationship between spent energy and GDP in our country is two to three times higher than the average energy intensity in EU countries. In particular, in 2002, energy intensity was 0.8, 2006 in 0.63, and now it's about 0.50, while energy intensity in Germany is 0.16%. So we see clearly that those with much less energy create a much greater new value. Serbia is dependent on imports of energy at a percentage of 33.6%. Serbia is characterized by a large emission of greenhouse gases from the energy sector with as much as 76%. Over 75% or about three million different buildings, various buildings in Serbia were built 70 years ago. So it was built without thermal insulation and at this point per square metre spends between 150 and 250 kilowatt hours, while at the same time the average energy consumption per square metre in EU countries is somewhere between 50 and 70 kilowatt hours. In total final energy consumption in our country, the building spends more than 50%, with a constant increase in energy consumption first for heating, but in recent years and for cooling rooms. Given, as I said at the beginning of the exhibition, that our country has a great desire and aspirations for EU accession, for known reasons, I think it is good to mention today some of the things that are happening among EU members, which concern energy efficiency, but, of course, taking into account their level of development in this area. The issue of energy efficiency and not only the issue of energy efficiency but the overall fight against climate change in the EU is very important. The European Parliament's directive of conditions in September last year is the result of the agreement, more specifically the compromise of EU member states, and as a result of the 2007 EU summit agreement, and this package known as the climate package or package 20 has made it a recommendation to access actions and energy saving activities by 2020 of 20% to access activities to increase the share of renewable energy sources by 20%, while the carbon dioxide mission is less by 20%. The estimate is that a 20% reduction in energy consumption will save EU member states about 50 billion euros. With this regulation, members are obliged to renovate about 3% of the total area of state buildings that are heated and refrigerated. Energy companies will have to make savings of 1.5% of energy sold annually to end-users every year from 2014 to 2020. Also, all major enterprises, including small and medium-sized enterprises, will be subjected every four years to an energy audit by independent energy experts. Also, all the members who have adopted this directive, all EU members have made a commitment by March 2013, so these days, to bring their national programmes for a more efficient use of energy. For all of this in the EU budget from 2014, the large financial package from 2014 to 2020 envisions around 20m euros, which clearly indicates that in EU countries there is a great deal of attention to energy efficiency, i.e. a more rational use of energy, regardless of which they are at a much higher level than the Republic of Serbia at this point. Also, this 20-billion-euro sum in certain European parliamentarians has caused fear and chills that it will not be enough to achieve the result of the 2020 package. All of this clearly indicates, on the one hand, what more developed countries are doing, but, on the other hand, the data that I said at the beginning of this partnership is saying where Serbia is today in terms of more efficient use of energy. It is clear that at the very beginning, but also with great delay, and if in one word we would like to characterize the state in Serbia's energy efficiency, it is certainly a delay. So we're certainly late, but once again I say we ignore these things and see what needs to be done. It is, of course, necessary to adopt a good and quality law, which will provide a legal framework for the implementation of the activities recommended by the law itself. What does that law actually have to do with it? The law needs to bring rational and efficient use of energy. It needs to bring a much greater degree of security to our energy system, to bring significant savings in energy consumption, to reduce our dependence on imported energy components, to increase productivity, to increase the competitiveness of our economy, to increase employment in the end, but not least, to greatly improve the quality of the environment, to show a friendly attitude towards the environment. Now I will mention something that is a local topic, which today is a respected colleague Škundric and distinguished colleague Chikiriz mentioned, which is the story of the first hydrocentral in this part of Europe, according to Tesla's principles, and it is about the headquarters of Djitinja, the centre of Užica. Of course, we Užičani always point out and proudly talk about something that is not only very important for our city, but for the whole country, and at that time King Aleksandar Obrenović, who laid a cornerstone, boasted throughout Europe with this very important and very rare project. Why am I talking about the headquarters on the Jetji River? And then, as today, one of the main reasons for building the plant is because a group of prominent businessmen, industrialists from Užica, led by Malisa Atanakovic, worried about energy. They sought safe and cheap sources of energy, first for the weaving workshop in Užica, and later for everything else that was born in the coming years afterwards. And today, with this law, and at all all the activities undertaken by the Resolute Ministry and Government, we must first ensure the security of energy supply to the cheap and cheaper energy, as much as possible, and all that comes out of it. I said in the beginning, we need a good law. I'll just mention some parts of the bill that I said I thought were very good quality. The chapters governing the policy of efficient use of energy are set out acts establishing this policy. There is already a strategy on the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, then the programme, then the action plan for the energy efficiency of the Republic of Serbia, the programme and the plan of local self-government, as well as the programme and plan of all those bound by the energy management system. Of course, all these acts contain first and foremost objectives, measures that will lead to more efficient use of energy, include ways, mechanisms, deadlines, necessary financial and other resources, and ultimately an analysis of the savings made and achieved, one analysis of the energy consumption itself. As for local self-governments that are somehow introduced into this story, which I find very good and very high-quality, because I believe that local self-government, as one important factor, one important pillar in the management of our country, must take over some of the responsibility in this area, in the area of energy efficiency. So, as far as local self-government itself is concerned, in addition to these basic things that contain other acts, plans that bring local self-government are plans for energy recovery and maintenance of public buildings used by local self-government, as public enterprises, institutions that are the founder of local self-government. We've heard many times today that the biggest losses are right in the public sector. I say once again, it is very important that the savings in this public sector, but at local level, responsibility be taken over by local self-government. The local self-government is also obliged and obliged to provide for improvements in the public service system, the district heating system, the water supply system, public lighting, waste management, then public transport, to make it clear that local self-government takes on one significant part of the responsibility in this area in a serious and responsible way. I have to focus again on local issues. The town of Užica, apart from having its first hydrocentrale, has worked a lot in the past to solve the problem of remote heating, so that all the multi-storys in Užica are supplied, all equipped with calories, and 22 housing units have so-called. divisors, so in 22 units for now, the process is going on, they can at any time read how much energy they've spent, which significantly reduces the space for all those who've wasted their energy. Also, the town of Uzice has a problem with high pollution. In the last year, 127 days, the amount of tea in the town of Užica was higher than it was allowed. Of course, that's bad information, but, on the other hand, we have a significant number of boilers that have been on the mule so far, there's been a conversion, so they're now transferred to the gas system. As far as the energy management system is concerned, at the very beginning I said it was a central part of this law. This energy management system is a set of organisational, technical, regulatory, incentive measures to monitor and analyse electricity consumption. Subjects to this system itself are, starting with the government, the ministry, the local self-government and all the bonds of the management system. Obligators are state administration bodies, as well as economic operators that spend more energy than is permitted by certain government regulations. Also, the law defines the types of products that affect energy consumption, and it is necessary to label them. I would also mention the Law on Planning and Construction, which mentioned rational consumption in the previous period, but this Energy Efficiency Act foresees, with regard to construction, the obligations of investors in newly built buildings and with which equipment these facilities must be equipped. Also, I find that very important. What would I say about finance? As for the fund, I believe that the doubts of all of those that this fund will work in a bad way are unfounded. We heard the Minister's argument and I believe that what happened to the Environment Fund won't happen again, or, God forbid, what happened at the Development Bank or the Agrobank. I'm sure, I trust the Ministry and I think it will be. More specifically, it says in the law itself that it is one section in the budget, which registers funds that will be in a certain way stimulating the energy efficiency area. The law also leaves the possibility for autonomous provinces and local self-government to introduce certain incentives on their territory and to form their own budget funds to encourage the development of this area. It is also positive to predict customs and tax reliefs for all those who use certain so-called so-called so-called goods. green positive technologies, which produce and place energy-saving products on the market, but, of course, in accordance with customs and tax regulations. In the part of our citizens' conscience, I agree with most of my predecessors, but I think we need to act on the youngest population. Of course, I wouldn't be opening the topic of education reform right now, but I think education needs to make room for children of the earliest ages to be educated, to save energy, and to recognize some healthier kinds of energy. (President: Time. ) Finally, by expressing maximum support for this law, it is clear to us from the URS that this is a process that will not be completed only by the adoption of the law, there is only the beginning. We expect that the period until 2014, when this law will operate in full capacity, all those preparatory actions will be adopted to adopt all sublegislative acts and that all the bonds of energy management will be made up of certain adaptations. (President: Thank you, Mr. Mitrovica. ) At the very end, it is clear that each dinar invested in a more efficient use of energy will be returned to this country multiple times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12973	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12974	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, Madam Minister, it is my fault again that we have brought together two points that are essentially both in the field of energy, but are very different. We are talking about energy efficiency and a 10-year agreement to ensure Serbia's energy stability in gas supply. The only link can be seen where we will need less gas if Serbia is more energy efficient. It's the only connection, and it's simple, you should've thought about getting those two things separated. Energy security already now, and more and more in the future will be an increasingly important element, not only of economic but also of every country's political stability. We have seen this, that many governments have been questioned, in case there is no energy stability. It's something that, fortunately, Serbia doesn't need to worry us. We'll have enough gas and we'll have enough energy to ensure stability, both economics and citizens, and that's something that's a fact. But this fact does not mean that energy can be wasted, but on the contrary, energy and energy resources are deficiting, scarce and extremely responsible and should be carefully disposed of, i.e. they should be spared. In this intention, we have approached an analysis of this law, which we believe is important and that energy efficiency, which in Serbia is almost and does not exist as a category, is energy, both heat and electricity and all other sources of energy, arches, in this law we have approached in a way that can see to what extent the provisions of this law and the application of this law itself can allow Serbia and Serbia's society to become more mature, more aware and more energy efficient in our lives. This law represents an expression of good intentions, a list of good wishes, which essentially means nothing unless they are implemented, of course. We have cases of a series of good laws that have not been implemented and that have remained a dead letter on paper. The control of boiler rooms, air conditioning is foreseen, but there is always a need to start from the state because it is the state that is essentially one of the major consumers. The boiler rooms are mostly owned by cities and municipalities. There, above all, must be implemented efficiency, of course, with air conditioning and all other electricity consumers. You've singled out boiler rooms and air conditioning, which is totally fine. We agree with that, but there's a thing that the state has to be the one that will largely ensure economic efficiency, and later on, it's all being carried out further on to the citizens and the economy. We don't see a clear plan in this law. You said 29 legal and sublegal acts should be passed. This law is a roof, but in it, except for those beautiful desires, you can't see a clear plan. There are few concrete measures they can and do not have to deliver. The establishment of a budget fund, of course, at its disposal by the government, is being managed by the ministry, but the budget fund does not have stable sources of funding. It's supposed to be legal, maybe it'll be budget funds, maybe it'll be donations, maybe it'll be this, maybe it'll be that. But in order for the fund to work, there must be stable sources of funding. In this case, it's not foreseen. It is not said in this law – a regular source of funding will be some percentage of customs duties, some percentage of certain fiscal commitments, or some other way that exists in the law. So, in order for this fund not to be a dead letter on paper, you had to either go through a debate or through the law to give us a closer explanation of how this fund would work. Without tax and customs relief, which Mr. Lapcevic spoke of, it is hardly possible to implement any more serious measures than these. Energy efficiency costs. Renewable energy sources, which seem to me to be an inseparable part of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, if we are talking about preserving the environment and preserving resources, because we, in that old Indian proverb, didn't inherit the country from our ancestors, we already borrowed it from our children, and we have to act accordingly and see what we can do to preserve the environment in Serbia. Both energy efficiency and renewable energy sources are something that should enable the quality of life in Serbia to improve. We need to figure out how to get there. The renewable energy sources are expensive. Energy through solar panels falls into very expensive energy. The thermo and hydropower plants, too, are not so expensive, it takes time. Cheapest energy is energy from nuclear power plants. We, of course, like Serbia, do not allow it. They give up in both the EU and other countries, after Fukushima. We simply need, as a state, to provide other renewable energy sources. We, like Serbia, have conditions for this, is one, of course, gas that will come and power plants on gas. It also needs to be seen how other types of renewable energy will develop. As the Latin proverb says, "the faith volunteer, script manet" or "the words fly, what is written remains." I'm handling what's written here and it's true what's not written, and that's, like I said, not a lot of concrete measures, there's no stimulation, there's no subsidies that you can say, which, of course, you'll say by sublegal acts are defined according to the funds of the budget fund and the rest, but they're not concrete. I don't see how they're going to fund and deploy. There is no concrete action plan, it says, that the sources of funding, as I said, are not stable and are not permanent, in order to ensure the filling and financing of projects from the budget fund. I'm afraid this will end as unfortunately, that it can end as another one of some of the projects and ideas of this government. Why do I think this could remain a unfortunately dead letter on paper? I will quote from Ivica Dacic's exhibition, which he said when forming the government as the first priority of this government – our most important and most difficult problem facing Serbia is the demographic issue. Stopping the biological decline and extinction of the nation and creating conditions for the return of the people's life force. Rehabilitation of the population can be the result only of activities, of creating all the preconditions to encourage an increase in the birth rate. To stimulate and give birth to more children in families through the help of married couples, who need out-of-body fertilisation, greater assistance to pregnant women, and maternity care, but social care for children. Elimination of taxes and restrictions on trade margins for baby equipment. That was the declared principle of Prime Minister Dacic's exposé. Two months later, as one of the government's measures was to return VAT to baby equipment, which is directly contrary to this and what we can say is that it is a promise from the Prime Minister, to whom we rejoiced both as parents and as citizens of Serbia, and as responsible people in this Serbia, left a dead letter on paper. A little later, the fact that the ruling coalition did not accept that maternity and pregnant women were paid full income within 12 months. That is why it scares me that the declared principles of your strategy, from this law, do not remain a dead letter on paper and I expect you as the responsible minister who came up with this bill, through the development of this law to ensure a stable filling of the budget fund and financing of the protection project, to improve energy efficiency, and, of course, to allow through EU donations, the use of credit to finance renewable energy projects. It is something that can reduce Serbia's dependence, Serbia's energy dependence on import components, specifically gas, and contribute through alternative energy sources, boost Serbia's economy through the development of these structures alone. That's what I'd have to say under this law. I'd like to say a few words about the gas deal. I think this is good to sign a ten-year agreement and we as the Democratic Party of Serbia, we supported the South Stream, we were working on the implementation of the South Stream project, we think it is good that Serbia has a ten-year contract, which will provide sufficient amounts of gas and will ensure the possibility of strengthening the Serbian economy in the next ten-year period, and that is totally acceptable for us. The role of Jugorozgas, as we know, is the request of the Russian side, not the Serbian side, even earlier and simply that is the fact, given the monopoly and the only gas supplier, not only Serbia, but many European countries, that these are the conditions we must respect. What me just complains about is that in article 4, which speaks of the price of gas, it doesn't stand at least in the way that the price of gas is determined. So it's not realistic to expect the price of gas to stand today for the next ten years, but the way gas prices are determined, since the price of gas is related to oil that's stock, it could simply stand there, I don't know what the reason, you'll probably tell us why it doesn't stand the way the price of gas is determined. This agreement itself is typical and signed by most of the states that supply gas from the Russian Federation and it itself is not controversial. What is controversial, which is that there are no alternative sources of gas supply, that is a fact, but I must remind you that the Nabucco project developed by EU members, which were the biggest shareholders of the Nabucco project from our friendly EU, was not intended for Serbia. He was supposed to go beyond Serbia's northern border and that Serbia should stay beyond the Nabucco project. It would simply challenge again the way Serbia can supply through the Nabucco project and finance perhaps a short Nabucco project towards Serbia. So the Nabucco project is not something that would provide Serbia with too much gas. The South Stream and the construction of the South Stream itself, we all hope, will end in a period of ten years. Whether the South Stream, the gas prices, through the South Stream enter into this contract or whether or not it will be defined specifically and subsequently by the gas that we would receive through the South Stream and at which the price would be defined and that's one thing. The second thing is, what are transit costs and what is the ultimate price of gas for Serbian citizens, transit costs through Hungary and all of the services we have and whether there is another intermediary besides Jugorozgas in the gas supply of both households and businesses. What we have asked of you so far is not specifically related to this agreement, and this is the report, and we always mention this business of "Serbiagas", here is already more than 6 months of your government and your ministry, and we should simply get an answer to how business is done and what the real costs of "Serbiagas" for the subsidized price of gas to households and businesses, which are the real losses in the business of "Srbiagas" unreal investments because the debt of "Srbiagas" exceeded a billion euros at the moment. So that's what we're expecting, and then we'll see that all these debts that exist are minor to the debts that I'm "Serbiagas" generated not because of the subsidized gas prices, but because of my failures in business. These are some of the answers we expect from you. All in all, we as a party will support this agreement because we think it is good that Serbia has energy security and stability in the coming period, because it is part of both economic and economic and political stability and this is how we got it through this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12975	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12976	Thank you very much for everything you've said and, of course, for upholding the law. When we talk about energy efficiency and when we talk about the budget fund, we're not exactly in favour of some new fees and taxes. When you say there's no safe way of funding, what we predicted is certainly a budget plus donations and plus loans. I believe this fund will certainly have funds. I'm much more concerned about whether we're going to have enough projects and whether we're going to be able to do it the right way. So I expect, of course, that these sublegal acts should be done in more detail. Because, despite the fact that this law has not been passed for many years, it is possible that certain doubts and certain problems may arise in practice. When you speak and say that energy efficiency costs. I agree completely, it costs. But it costs a lot more when we import energy, and it costs the most when we don't have energy, or energy. That's why this law is only part of Serbia's energy policy that needs to be provided as I said to increase our energy security. It's simple, in every way, even this way. I believe that this law can enable us to and how we increase energy security and just increase what we keep talking about, which is the competitiveness of our economy. The projections we've been doing together with experts say the competitiveness of the economy can increase by about 15% to 20% over the next ten years, following this law. When we talk about this law, you mentioned particularly renewable energy choices. I fully agree, but also new technologies and special inclusion, therefore, in industry, not only in the manufacturing sector, but in the sector of spending everything called energy-efficient technology and energy efficiency. The law is one thing, and the Action Plan is another and we already have one action plan brought in 2010. So now we're going to bring in a second action plan and he needs to explain to us how we're actually going to use energy more efficiently, and I believe that these action plans are going to be further. They are precisely foreseen by this law, both as they are adopted and as reports are submitted and what these action plans should contain. You also mentioned simply to sort of correct the nuclear energy that you said was actually cheap. It's not cheap. It's very expensive, and the disposal of radioactive waste and construction and time, etc., away from being cheap. What I think is important for every country and ours is to make the most of all the resources we have within our country. So, in that sense, I mean primarily the potential of renewable energy sources, especially biomass and, of course, all other sources, and that's why we ended up doing the legal procedure and regulation, etc., in that direction. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, therefore, about delivering gas in the next 10 years between Serbia and the Russian Federation, I must say that even when you mentioned "Yugorozgas" and said it was a request from the Russian side, it is not disputed, it is a request from the Russian side. What our Serbian side is interested in, and what I'm interested in, and why this case has been in the prosecution for several years is how we lost that partnership relationship. So, if we had an intermediary, that commission was reduced, but why we have 25%, and that's something we expect the answer to, was in the previous government, so I guess in this government what's in the prosecution is going to be over, or to get an answer as to why Serbia lost its partnership, because from that moment on when it lost its partnership, many things seemed completely different in our gas policy. For "Srbigas" I fully agree with finally "Srbigas" gave his 2012 work report. The report showed a loss of 38 billion dinars. I am particularly interested in the State Auditor's report on business in "Serbiagas", and since the report, therefore, has been adopted, we are talking about the Serbian business report itself, he must be available to everyone. If you can't get that from the "Serbigas" ministry, they'll be looking for it, and they'll all be able to look at a report like that, he's supposed to be on their website, but if he doesn't, we'll deliver. "Srbigas" has serious financial problems and I couldn't agree more than the result of the subsidized gas price. Certainly the result and some other way of doing business within "Srbigas", which is why we as a government, or as a resolution ministry, are preparing a restructuring plan for "Srbigas". I sincerely hope that in some of the coming days of the government sessions you will have the opportunity to see and see that we will begin to implement it, because "Srbigas" must by no means be a company that simply sinks into its debts, but should be a company that is qualified for the period of market liberalisation. So, for a period when competitors can come who can simply eat such a company. This refers to "Serbigas" and "Electroprivreda" Serbia. In fact, I think it's my job for both these governments and this ministry to train businesses to function normally on a market that is definitely opening and will no longer be able to be a situation that only has one and that one absolutely holds all the monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12977	Thank you. Dean Michael, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12978	Let's just try to get a few things straight. I said, of course, that energy efficiency that renewable energy sources are something that is expensive, especially energy efficiency, but that this is the price that we have to pay, and that we have to try to make Serbia a more energy efficient country, and therefore the economy will be more competitive and, of course, it will save itself more, and at the very end of the day, it will be cheaper than we are trying to break resources as we have done so far. What you didn't understand, we're not looking for new commitments, we're looking for a redistribution on the framework of existing fiscal and customs obligations, and that's why I said this part of Ivica Dacic's exposé, where it was referred to a demographic issue, but it turned out to be about resolving the demographic issue from the exposé, but when certain laws were passed and when the fiscal system was changed, when it was harmonised as one measure to improve the economic situation, it wasn't taken into account, because it was expensive. I just don't want, like expensive, a VAT on babies and children's equipment not to be 20%, but not to be gone or to be 8%, as it is expensive for some pregnant and pregnant women to have a full income of 12 months, not not to have, like now or to be reduced, so we don't get into a situation where this is expensive, so it's not going to be anything. That is why I expect that in the context of existing commitments, as you say, I would speak within the current fiscal system of Serbia, there is a certain redistribution, a stable filling of the budget fund, which would ensure the financing of energy stability and energy efficiency projects under this law that will appear. It is our intention and we absolutely as a party do not have a dilemma, we insist on existing commitments, we are not for new commitments, and certainly, we agree that the sale of Progress actions and Jugorozgas should be dealt with by some competent authorities, to see, who, at some point, did not accept the right to buy a purchase for the action of progress at that time and fully agree and thus put Serbia in a position to have 25% instead of 49 or 50%.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12979	The word has a folk MP Ivana Dinić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12980	The President-in-Office, honourable minister, respected ministry representatives, respected fellow MPs and MPs, is ahead of us with the proposal for a law on efficient use of energy, which represents one of the five priority programmes for the development of the energy strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which is the priority of rational use of quality energy products and an increase in energy efficiency in production, distribution and use of energy among end-users of energy services. In order to implement this law, it is necessary to take strategic, legislative and organisational institutional measures, technical and technological, incentive, financial measures, as well as awareness-building measures in the field of energy efficiency. This law on efficient use of energy also regulates the conditions and way of efficient use of energy in the energy sector in the production, transmission, distribution and consumption of energy, energy efficiency policy, energy use, energy management system, energy efficiency level labelling, minimum energy efficiency requirements in the production, transmission and distribution of electricity and heat energy, as well as the delivery of natural gas, financing of incentives and other measures related to efficient energy use. The aim of the adoption of this law is to ensure security of energy supply, reduce the negative impact on the environment, reduce the emissions of greenhouse gasses, reduce energy consumption, thus reducing energy consumption and energy costs in its sectors, increase the comformation in public buildings, improve the level of energy services, encourage the use of renewable energy sources for its own needs, encourage awareness and voluntary activities, encourage energy efficiency, ensure eco-design and design of end-use products in line with energy efficiency requirements, encourage the creation of funds and other financial incentives to use energy efficiency, provide new jobs, increase competitiveness of energy management system commitments, reduce carbon emissions by around 9% to 2030, and many others. The application of the law on efficient use of energy implies the application of provisions on ecodesign of energy-using products. It is an obligation that home and other technical devices that use energy can only be placed on the market if they meet ecodesign requirements if they contain an energy efficiency mark. This energy efficiency code must contain data on the amount of energy produced by it under the prescribed working conditions, must be visually indicated by the energy efficiency class, as well as that it contains other data which are showing the consumer the essential properties of the product, as well as the consumption of resources necessary for the operation of the product. The law on efficient use of energy, the need to regulate efficient use of energy also extends to the production, transmission and distribution of energy, then to producers, importers and sellers affecting energy consumption, power boiler owners over 20 kilowatts, system owners over 12 kilowatts of air conditioning system, but essential measures mainly concern improving the efficiency of the heat and electricity supply system, introducing new equipment and decommissioning old and replacing energy-efficient equipment. This type of measure is characterised by the necessary investment investments that can significantly increase energy efficiency in the short term, thus providing financial resources for investment recovery through the savings achieved. The law on efficient use of households will have an impact on households by allowing them to examine whether they are using energy in a rational way and whether they can reduce energy consumption costs for heating and increase the standard from one side. On the other hand, this law creates conditions for paying costs according to measured energy consumption, providing consumer protection. By signing and ratifying the treaty on the energy community of Southeast European countries, our country has confirmed its readiness to ensure the rational management and management of energy and energy resources, as well as the country's sustainable development. The key parameters that have highlighted the need for reforms in the energy sector to improve energy efficiency are that energy intensity is two to three times higher in our country than in EU countries. It is highly dependent on import energy, the negative impact of the energy sector on the environment. Then, there is a huge emission of greenhouse gases from the energy sector. Then, our country's definition of sustainable development, international obligations, as well as the lowest degree of energy efficiency in Europe in the case of our country, the consumption of 100 sq/h energy per year per square metre in the countries of Western Europe, unlike our country where energy consumption is 150 to 180 sq/h per year per square metre, and many others. Because of all this, Serbia ranks fifth in the largest polluters per capita in terms of carbon dioxide emissions. The use of energy-efficient transport technologies would help reduce fuel consumption as well as carbon dioxide emissions even by 50% per mile. The use of rail transport, as the most energy efficient type of land traffic and the smallest environmental pollutant, leads to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Railway traffic on average emits three times less carbon dioxide than road traffic and five times less than air traffic. Therefore, as an optimal measure of energy efficiency in transport, as well as a measure of sustainable development in Serbia, combined road and rail traffic should be applied, thus ensuring the most efficient meeting of the needs of users, which is also a real perspective in the European transport system and one of the important traffic development objectives in the Republic of Serbia. The implementation of the energy efficiency law does not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's 2013 budget. Given that this law provides for the establishment of a budget fund to improve energy efficiency in 2014, the planning of the necessary budgets will be carried out when developing and adopting the 2014 budget. The budget fund is a very important segment in terms of improving our country's energy efficiency. Its establishment needs to be encouraged and co-financed by activities that improve energy efficiency in the energy production and consumption sectors, as well as to increase the use of renewable energy sources in our country. This fund is also important for the purpose of providing and co-financing of educational programmes in the framework of the permanent education of experts in the field of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. In order to encourage and finance measures, this law also provides better conditions for obtaining loans from banks, obtaining customs and tax relief, increasing the scope of research and development activities for the development of energy-efficient technologies and processes, as well as public procurements that take into account energy efficiency as a criterion. Also, it is of great importance to implement this law on efficient use of energy are also awareness-building measures in the field of energy efficiency through the implementation of the campaign information strategy and educational activities, in order to increase awareness of energy savings and as a process leading to changes in behaviour in all sectors of transmission, energy distribution and energy users. In line with all the facts mentioned here and the legal framework that will allow for more efficient use of energy, the SPS will support this law on efficient use of energy in the hope that the consciousness of our citizens will enable its maximum application and contribution to the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, because it is the only and most valuable, our living environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12981	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12982	Thank you. I will try to get your attention with a contribution that I will talk about and a note concerning the tone of the debate between us so far when it comes to the authorised representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups and we who are taking part in the debate and also with three objections, or three questions that I would like the minister to answer. The point is that most participants in today’s debate expressed regret over the delay. A delay in passing, a delay that is not a previous government, a delay which is not four years ago, a delay that is not 10 years ago, and all in a ton sometimes a little bit of misery, sometimes – a bit of what would have been nice without being late. So, I join that tone by proposing that we look at a slightly wider picture when it comes to delays and imagine that we haven't had to wait 18 years for the former single SRS to decide to change politics and that Europeans understand that Serbia's European integration is Serbia's only future. Let's imagine what it would be like to have these 18 years of different policies, which some of us don't want to remember, some might say, simply for you. I simply join, a general tone on the reasons for the delay, when it comes to one of the laws that are from the European agenda, i.e. from a national plan for the adoption of regulations that are in line with European legislation. A lot of things can be different when you look at a bigger picture and this is just another one of my suggestions, so let's think about it whenever we talk about why something is late and why something isn't done in time. Three objections. The first is probably easy to solve and concerns those who, by law, normally have the responsibility for programmes when it comes to both resources, or energy at all, but also the efficiency, or efficient use of energy, are local self-government and Vojvodina. Local self-government and Vojvodina are mentioned in a different way through members describing how they participate in programmes. Sometimes it is mentioned very clearly that Vojvodina has jurisdiction, because it does. Sometimes it's -- the others, sometimes it's not mentioned, sometimes it's the same as local self-government. Some of my colleagues have submitted amendments that I hope will be looked at, because we should not leave out what is left for the other regulations of the Vojvodina in jurisdiction given. I am absolutely sure that both at the level of the Republic government and at the level of the government of Vojvodina will have no problems in co-operation when it comes to both energy resources and energy efficiency. The second remark, or question I have for the minister, is the subject of the budget fund. I have one question and three questions. One question is, first question, how is it that, in the same ministry with even the same minister, the budget fund under the environmental law is unacceptable completely, and in the law on efficient use of energy is desirable? You had the budget fund as an amendment to the abolition of the Environment Fund. Today we listen to the minister talking about the need to know the dedicated money that will be used for the efficient use of energy. I don't mind. On the contrary, I couldn't agree more, but the same kind of money is meant to be used in the environmental protection sector, with the fact that for budget money, other than here, it is argued in the law that funds will be recorded, extremely discriminatory. What does it mean to record funds? For the budget fund proposed by the minister, there was a obligation on principle -- a pay polluter as a dedicated money and a Environmental Protection Act. I'm not asking this question rhetorically. I ask this question because I believe that the intention to put the budget fund into this law in the way it is, opens up a chance to do so in the Environmental Protection Act, or return at least the budget fund and reduce the problems you have. You claim that this fund had seven billion, and that fund was handed over to you with over three billion. At the same time, it is not good to argue that one fund has been mismanaged and that you are offering us a law on an important area through a policy that your party took refuge in 2008 and that you claim that we should trust you on the word that it will be a professional service in the budget fund and that it will only decide whether to finance or co-finance projects, that this money will be made out of donations, out of compensation, recorded and that everything will be okay because you say so. We also read fiscal laws. We also read Serbia's budget and we know this can't happen if there's no budget rebalance. I'm putting it as a comparison to abolish the Environment Fund just because you were against the budget fund. In principle, it's not possible that we changed our minds so quickly. The third observation of the most serious species and the issue is the proposal for legislation to include energy use as one of the elements for tariffs. I'm going to illustrate to you very briefly, not coming out of the subject, what I'm asking you and what kind of suspicion, which I can explain, I have when you suggest that. It's called a calorie, and it's based on it that it's determined as a tariff bill for energy consumption, with hope that when we see, when we have a calorie to spend a lot, save and spend less to have less, but I'm not talking about it. I'm talking about you claiming it should be one of the elements of the tariff. What is the reflection of the illustration that I want to share with you? Now for 15 years, various people who have been in your places from various parties, from various levels, will ask and request, including the Director of the Energy Efficiency Agency, to change the electricity bill because this account cannot be read, because it is European, that there is the price of one kilowatt, transfer per kilowatt, distribution per kilowatt and tax per kilowatt. That's what I'm asking because for 15 years, the various experts I've been in good, bad relationships with, and after these conversations, I'm always in bad relationships, they convince me that I don't understand why the electricity bill can't change. I tell all the experts that I love most when someone doesn't understand what I don't understand. Why am I tying this up? Because the famous, fantastic, amazing, wonderful item of the hired power in the electricity bills seems to get the twin sister into the hired efficiency. I have no hope that you will succeed in making written, European clear electricity bills for Serbian citizens, but I have hope that you have the knowledge to convince me that what it says here, that one of the elements for tariffs will not become engaged efficiency. I hope, not for your sake, but for all of us, that it will not happen. Why am I saying I'm going to illustrate that I'm very often in the minority, but that doesn't mean I'm wrong? For example, I was in the minority when I asked for a tax on church income to be introduced into our fiscal system, and now I claim it should be done, but I'm in the minority committee, in the party, in the Assembly, wherever you want. Just because I'm a minority doesn't mean I'm wrong. I insisted and asked, and now I believe that all the money invested in education can be accounted for as an investment, and not as an expenditure, and that it can be seen exactly, as some countries have done, because it is an investment, because what you are investing in a constant education of all of us, is coming back to you in five, seven, ten years. And that's where I stayed in the minority. I have hope that I will not remain in the minority with the proposal to accept it myself, I also said to the Committee on European Integration, only consistently that Vojvodina, its jurisdiction, as well as the competences of local self-government are consistently implemented through members, to leave out any doubt as to why the budget fund is good for this law, and it is not good for any other and in any way that you guarantee that it will be clear to both procedures and control the spending of money. As I look at the wider picture that we have been waiting for for 18 years, that we all understand that European integration is the only future of Serbia, I would like you to join me in wanting to change the electricity bill that comes to all citizens of Serbia. With the topic of energy efficiency and the topic of European integration I've been dealing with long enough to ask you, I understand everything if you don't have the right answers or you don't want to answer, I'll understand everything, but in the name of efficiency I'd ask you not to waste time if you're going to repeat the answers you've given to others, simply, to be efficient, so if you have something new and striking to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12983	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12984	In the name of this efficiency, I won't comment on your start of moaning for 18 years. I totally agree with the bill. It's already about making the bill clear, reviewing, and that every citizen in this country when he looks at the bill knows how many kilowatts he's spent and how much it costs him. I agree with you that all previous ministers, starting in 2001, when Goran Novakovic was, when he couldn't read what that account meant. I'll talk you out of it right now. So the hired force will certainly not be in the account of heat energy. The bill should, by some estimates, along with the EPS, make it look completely different in the next few months. An item concerning, for example, renewable energy production will also appear. It's something we've now introduced as privileged producers. Regarding local self-government and Vojvodina, they have a completely equal status, but the fact is that this law, above all, is probably an integrated law at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the AP Vojvodina and its representatives participated in the creation of this law and there colleagues are absolutely right, but Article 63 also makes it clear: "The competent authority... "that I don't read to you, you must have looked at it. So it's completely equal status, so I don't see any reason to write it out right now. You'll give the amendment, we'll take a look and we can talk. I absolutely don't mind. The budget system law has precisely defined what a budget fund is. That budget fund is not a legal person, no employees, no organs, no statutes, no regulations, no other things, no employees. That's the bill. So that's the difference between that budget fund and that fund we had. Of course, I'll agree with you. As I've already said several times, it's a serious problem that we don't have a way to finance environmental projects. I also announced that we are doing a serious analysis of how much trouble we have here to try to solve it in some other way. Just a little correction when you said we inherited the fund with three billion etc. I have to correct you, when we came to this place, when I became a minister, the fund had a debt of 5.6 billion dinars, where obligations were accepted for which there was no money. I think I've responded effectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12985	Thank you. National MP Gordana Komic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12986	If you consider the budget fund to be a solution to the Energy Efficiency Use Act, enter a budget fund for a dedicated dinar, pay contaminant. Bring him in by any procedure. I also know very well what the Budgetary System Act looks like, as I say, when we changed Article 12. The law on the budget system that it was done to harm all of us. That member needs to be changed. I know it's impossible. The reason I know is that I was twice the opposition, twice the coalition. Who was twice the coalition knows how to come to an agreement. I'm telling you what I think is a general benefit. Change the Budgetary System Act, leave the budget funds as they are. We can also make a budget fund to protect the environment. Guarantees that the budget fund here in this law will work beyond any doubt, and you and I know they don't exist. You and I know that without rebalancing, he can't. You and I know that a fund is necessary to make any energy efficiency at all. Just for the end, when we talk about the need to be an education for energy efficiency, to be a campaign, to be an educational campaign, to be a communication, it costs everything, the minister. It's not free. The moment you stand for the campaign, that money must be in the budget. As it had to be money in the budget for anything new that we introduced, because it's only because and just so the government members don't talk about it, but it happens with campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12987	Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12988	Just one thing. The environmental law is currently in changes, so we're changing the Environmental Protection Act, as well as the Nature Protection Act, but regarding the Environmental Protection Act, I absolutely don't mind trying to put maybe a budget fund through it, and I agree that the polluter pays, I've already talked about it. When you say one thing about rebalancing, this budget fund for energy efficiency will start to work in 2014, so the budget that will be created for 2014, of course, will provide for money for that too. When you're talking about a campaign that should, of course, start this year, we can't wait for 2014, we're talking to people about energy efficiency, then let me tell you that at the department of the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, there's one part about specialized services, and we're going to definitely like we're doing these brochures now, and we're going to definitely use it to have a story about energy efficiency in one part.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12989	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12990	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, why is it important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopt this law? In the Republic of Serbia, energy consumption is not a waste, at least up to two times higher than in the EU, and that as a state, we are very dependent on imports of energy from around 34%. I'd like to go back to the discussion of a colleague who spoke in a previous debate. I would actually propose to Mrs. Minister for that alternative gas road, and that's where I would agree with my colleague, but I'm not sure if Serbia as a state is able to import enough lighters from China, but it seems to me to be the only way to provide an alternative -- the gas on the network. At least for now. When there's someone else, I think we'll back it up as a party and that. It would therefore not adequately regulate the area of energy efficiency without the existence of a legal act that would provide the basis for regulating the rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, economic operators and other legal entities in the area of energy efficiency, or energy-efficient matter. The current Energy Act, which was adopted in 2004, the energy development strategy of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the National Assembly in mid-May 2005 as well as other significant strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia, attach great importance to energy efficiency in the sectors of production and consumption. However, the notion of efficient use of energy is not defined by the Energy Act as well as by other law or by some sublegal act. The Energy Efficiency Act, which is ahead of us as a system law for the main objective, is to ensure, responsibly, rationally and sustainable use of energy, thus enabling safer energy supply, competitiveness of the economy and environmental protection, reducing import dependence, except in the case of lighters, increasing citizens' standards. What is very important to me is that conditions are created for the employment of highly skilled personnel. These and such objectives could be achieved by establishing a market for energy efficiency services, changing habits and behaviours regarding energy use, implementing programmes and projects to increase energy efficiency, implementing long-term measures to increase energy efficiency. Before that, it is necessary to meet the first condition, which is the adoption of this law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The legislation will lay down legal frameworks for the establishment of a system and organised energy management which clearly and precisely defines the role of energy managers and provides for the introduction of minimum energy efficiency requirements for products, facilities, new and revitalised plants in the production sectors, such as energy transmission and distribution. Also, the introduction of a charge according to measured energy consumption as well as the mandatory categorisation of products according to energy consumption, which has not been the case so far, is at least not legally regulated regardless of the energy class markings on certain devices, then ecodesign. Energy efficiency should be introduced by this law as a criterion in public procurement. One of the key newspapers will be the budget fund for energy efficiency. Nothing less is important that the adoption of this law will create an incentive to implement energy efficiency measures, stimulate the opening and development of the energy market and encourage energy audits to identify potentials to improve energy efficiency. What is certainly commendable and necessary is the creation of an opportunity to set up a budget fund as the most efficient way to raise and allocate funds that would be used for the purpose of financing or subsidising projects, programmes and activities aimed at more efficient use of energy that would be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and donations or possibly credit. The aim of the establishment and operation of this fund is to improve energy efficiency in private, public, business and other facilities, modernisation and replacement of boilers, heat substations with heating installations, a system for the preparation of sanitary hot water and indoor lighting, as well as to improve energy efficiency by using renewable energy sources in industrial enterprises and municipal systems, as well as by co-financed projects and activities in the field of energy efficiency. The National Assembly has passed many good laws over a period of time, but some of them have unfortunately remained out of practice and in order for this same bad practice to happen with this very good law, it is necessary to take strategic, legislative, organisational, institutional, technical and technological measures and in particular measures to strengthen awareness in the field of energy efficiency. The current legal framework was not binding enough when it comes to increasing energy efficiency in energy consumption sectors. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law governing the efficient use of energy in order to allow the implementation of established priority technical measures. Today is like a system law before us of the Energy Efficiency Act, and I urge you to vote for it together with the SNS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12991	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12992	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, members of the cabinet, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the proposed law is extremely important, as it will introduce order in the previously neglected area, which is defined by Article 2 of this law. A lot of work and effort will be made to carry out all the activities envisaged by law, but the positive results of Serbia's activities will finally be derived from a group of countries that boastably behave in the manufacturing, distribution and use of energy. There will also be problems in the application of the tariff system in part of heat consumption, but cities that are not in the said system, using the experience of cities where the tariff system is already applied, will be easier to overcome problems. I would refer to energy efficiency, domestic science, technological innovation in Serbia, and I would like to talk about involving large public enterprises in the education of technical personnel, as this law will also have its own sublaws, i.e. The rules and this would be one of the suggestions that you're going to consider. A major problem with the education system in Serbia is the lack of practical education. In the energy sector, the problem is becoming more and more pronounced, as large systems of human education are becoming less and less involved. To overcome the problem, the principle of active involvement of public enterprises and public services of the Republic of Serbia in the education process may need to be introduced. I think this can be done in a number of ways. In systems such as EPS, city heats and the like, there should be organised college co-operation services. The services should have a specific fit, thus thus not increasing the number of employees in public enterprises, and at the beginning of each school year, public service authorities would draw up a plan and a programme of work with resorient colleges, in this case the technical colleges of the energy direction. In the final years of study of energy professions, on professional subjects, part of lectures and exercises, let's say that they keep people from practice, or from the direct process of work. Each student of energy profession should carry out the professional work, which will be evaluated by both the competent professor and the public entrepreneurship professional in the context of which the seminar work was done. The introduction of a promising professional practice at the final year of the study of energy profession, which would last one semester and after which the students would practically defend the acquired knowledge there, which will take place in defense of the final master's work. The final result of this activity should be the fit which is qualified and which will have a reference after the completed studies. In this way, I believe that there is a positive selection of staff, the best of which will be kept in public enterprises, and the rest of the cadors with acquired knowledge and references to achieve a greater market value and have a better transition to employment. A similar principle can also be introduced in all sectors where economic systems are capable of being involved in the system of education staff. According to the strategies adopted by the world's leading forces in the transition ahead, big money will be separate for the development of innovation technologies. Much of that money will be intended to invest in the development of innovation around the world. In order for Serbia to get into the distribution of this money, and to make a profit from innovation activities, especially in the real sector, and not in the service sector, I think it is necessary to increase investment in science and, above all, investment in institutions that have references. Increased investment will result in concrete outcomes, an enhanced index of Serbian science citation, the creation of a new scientific staff, etc., the opening of programmes for Omperative Works intended for the widest layers of the people. The goal of these lines should be to exploit the discovery potential that lies outside scientific institutions. The main goal of such programmes should be to increase the number of patents in Serbia. Also, such programmes should aim to train citizens of Serbia to apply to European and world funds for the development of innovation. In the end, the SNS will support both laws in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12993	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12994	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, I'll have a little bit of the law. In front of us, of course, there is a very significant law and here it was bid on the speed it was in front of parliament. When it comes to speed, I give my little contribution. If, for example, we had started this regular session on time, perhaps on March 5th, the day when the world marks energy efficiency, this law would have come before the MPs. Unfortunately, he was a little late. You have already said that this law aims to ensure energy efficiency and set many other goals that are very important for Serbia's development, but you did not say that this is our obligation, that we have committed ourselves by signing the SAA to enter the procedure. I think you should say that, because both MPs and citizens of Serbia should know that. The International Energy Agency estimated that in 20 years, energy consumption would have to be increased by 40%, and that was a signal to all governments to practically start thinking about how to reduce energy consumption and how to actually improve energy efficiency a little bit together. When I say energy efficiency, it's just that somehow it's always being forced to compromise some kind of energy consumption without changing our life habits. In fact, it's a much smarter approach, with one smart approach, to keep both the level of goods and the level of service and the level of some standard in life, some standards we've accepted, and to spend much less energy and much less energy in doing that, let's say we use just one kind of energy. Here we talk about heat or electricity all the time. Can that be achieved? Of course it can be achieved. We have examples of many other countries, and we have examples of ourselves, that we have started to change some processes and that we have achieved something in these processes. Of course, I'm not talking about energy here, because we've touched so little here. Serbia is a signator of the Treaty on the Energy Community of Southeast European countries and thus has committed to working on energy efficiency, but has also committed to using other alternative energy sources. We've reached some percentage of 27% of renewable energy sources. Many experts say that we have played here, to be precise, that we have assigned ourselves a very large task and a very high task, which we will find difficult to achieve. We have both these important reasons, and renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, introduced them into the Energy Development Strategy in 2015 and these are priorities. These are all the conditions that we had to agree to so that we could enter into a procedure called lawmaking, and that we were really forced as a country to enter into the law is the following data, which are repeatedly spoken here today, but they are very important because they need to be made public. The energy intensity in Serbia is two to three times higher than in the surrounding countries, and as far as EU countries are concerned, it is five, six times higher. Serbia is a country that is highly dependent on import energy, over a third, 34% of the energy sources we have to import, and that is very important when we talk about our stability of energy and the security of a country. These are very important factors for the country's security at all. Then, the energy sector is one of the biggest environmental pollutants. I've mentioned it many times. It's a little bit done in that part, very little, almost negligible. The largest contaminant remains, plus transport, which is also a very large polluter. What's also very problematic from the environmental point of view, the energy sector has too much greenhouse gas emissions, over 76%. These are all the things we need to know and say -- here, these are the reasons why we have to get into a project this expensive, we have to say, and we've pointed out that here several times, it costs a lot, but it brings every penny that's been invested within a few years. Serbia has also defined itself for sustainable development. That reminds me of many ministers. I hope as Minister of Environmental Protection I don't have to remind you, but I'll remind you of the next thing. Somehow all of us are declared to have sustainable development, but the third pillar of this sustainable development is environmental protection. Imagine what a powerful pillar that is in our case, when we gave him 0.2% of the budget. That pole's about to break. For sustainable development, energy efficiency needs to be improved, not only in production, but also in all kinds of consumption. When I say that, I'm talking about transportation. We said how much of a contaminant it was. We said what fame we brought to transport in Serbia, then production. It looks like we're having the least of our problems here. Your production isn't working, so we have the least pollution problem. What I read in law as a building, I don't belong to language cleaners, but, simply, my building is kind of completely, I don't know what to say, what some average Serb would say is what construction is? But, see, construction is in the law, so I'm going to name it. When I mention this problem with buildings, construction facilities in Serbia, I have to say that over three million such objects in Serbia, which were made in some earlier periods, actually has a problem with enormous consumption, waste of energy, and here I am talking primarily about the energy used for heating. More than 40% of such energy is cast into the wind every day, which costs the citizens and the state a lot, but, behold, that wasteful mentality we must have acquired by learning at school that we are a rich country. Some other countries are starting to learn, and they're much richer than we are, that they're poor countries, so I guess they're keeping an eye on each other. When you are taught at school that you are rich, then you do not have to worry about whether you will use heat in a way that you will open a window when you are hot or reduce the heat flow. I must say that a good thing, which no one mentions, is that in 30.9.2012, the obligation to publish so-called. energy passports for facilities to be used. It's a very important thing, because it's one of the first steps in this part. Finally, the Central European Forum also directs us in this direction, that it should first go into energy efficiency, when it comes to heating and tell us that it might be good to find a way for the state to help the population and find the funds itself that will invest in the isolation of objects, in facades, in the carpentry, etc. What else would I say? We've come to a magical fund that I can't miss either, and Mrs. Comic, first because it's a model that obviously gives results, it's good to have a budget fund, that's great, but you have a problem that you don't have stable sources of funding. For me, it can't be a stable source of credit financing and it can't be a donation. That's not the way to talk about it seriously. The Democratic Party of Serbia has offered you, when we talked about amending the Air Law, to form a budget fund, when you have already abolished the Fund for Nature Protection, because we know it is a model that works and has to work. That's what you refused. I see there's an office or department in the paper that you called them, that you'll be heading that way. Believe me, this is a model, apply it to environmental protection, because soon we won't be able to talk about protecting the environment if the funds that need to be invested in it go the other way. I've seen it and it's really bothered me how much space you've given the minister in charge of this, the minister for this, for that. The system can't function if the minister is in charge of everything, but the Ministry of Energy needs to do a lot of important things - to establish a system of energy management and advisers, a huge job, to establish a system of inspection supervision, a huge job, to coordinate tariff systems for measuring heat energy, which will be based on exact measurement, an amazing thing in Serbia, but I hope it will be. Such a huge job, which you've given to your ministry, and you have a problem just making the EPS pay their debts, and to make those people who pay their debts in time, for what they spend and pay their bills, I'm talking about them, are now being brought into a situation that they did the opposite -- those who didn't pay now free interest, have the opportunity to pay for wars and so forth. It's a very bad message to the citizens. That's what I'm saying because they asked me to say. That's very important to say. You should also bring in 29 sublegal acts. It's a huge number. We've already commented several times that you're going to do it. I wish I could thank you very much for bringing in 29 sublaws, but when you do, we'll do it. A lot of costs require of citizens this system. He's supposed to pay for the isolation on his house, pay for boiler control, air conditioning control. These are for such a low standard of citizens a great deal. Let's not let this huge job, a big and significant job for the state, fall because people couldn't bring it out and they'll be able to avoid these costs. If I have a few seconds left, and I have to ask it, it has nothing to do with this law, but you're here and I need to ask a question. How did it occur to you that such a valuable collection of snakes, which appeared as a possibility of getting a zoo in Serbia, would you give it to Croatia? It's a question of great interest to the citizens. So it has nothing to do with this law, and I'm not going to use the opportunity to say that it is, to look for a relationship, even though they're cold-blooded, so we could talk efficiency. It is simply a story that requires explaining to the citizens of Serbia, because such a rare collection and such a valuable collection, which costs enormously much, does not have a single zoo in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12995	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12996	Should we start with the snakes? So, Serbia's zoos simply didn't have room to guard and no one wanted to receive them, so we had to find a way to do it. You know, by convention, everything we confiscate, we just have to take, which we certainly do, and how it increases costs, to understand each other. On the one hand, if we are talking about costs and revenues at all, because you once mentioned it, whatever is seized at the border with Serbia, Serbia must take all of these animals and must find a place to place them. It's not simple at all for Serbia and how much it costs. But it's our international obligation, and that's what we have to do. Since there was no room and, among other things, we didn't even have antidotes. I don't want to say that for certain snakes, the antidotes are 30 to 40,000 euros, that's how much they cost. Anyway, there was no possibility and then we succeeded and found this way to give them away. I don't know what we'd be doing in another variant. To go back to the law now and all that you said. In that section you mentioned, the budget fund. Let me say again that's the bill. When you talk about a stable source of funding, I'll repeat that one part of that budget fund is in a stable source of funding through the budget. In addition, it can be donations and it can be loans. And I'll also remind you that in all areas of energy efficiency, and all energy efficiency projects, they always have the possibility, even a little bit bigger than anything else in the energy field, to get certain and favourable loans, but, of course, donations. When you talk about sublegal acts, I completely agree with you – free of law if there are no sublegal acts. I've said that many times. We have already provided certain donors from the Japanese and Norwegian funds, which will provide and help us professionally to complete the sublaws as soon as possible. It's only from Japan, it's a million dollars and it's not small. One more thing, since you've been through this story, it's about these E.P.S. interest rates, etc., to be perfectly clear, because I think it's important. We had a situation that neither the economy nor the population, that their debts were accumulated and that with debts and interest so accumulated that they were quite large, no one paid electricity. You'll admit it's the easiest way to immediately rule out all those who don't pay. That's what we could do. But given the situation we're in, we first offered a transitional solution. The transitional solution is to write off the interest, but that the underlying debt certainly stands and that there is an obligation to make a contract, to do a debt reprogramme with the obligation to pay the debt reprogramme, you also have to pay your monthly bills. The first non-payment, the first non-payment war, that moment the contract is terminated, the debtor off the grid is excluded whether it's a company, whether it's a household and then he has to pay the entire debt. When you talk about the unequal position of those who pay, I would disagree with you. Those who pay have a 5% discount, plus, absolutely certainly, the security that they will have electricity because they have regular payments. This was a transitional measure to try to give people, given, I repeat again, where we live and what kind of crisis we are in, to allow these accumulated debts that are huge, to give us the opportunity to pay in wars. One percent will probably succeed, the other may continue to behave the same way and will certainly be downloaded from the net. This has never happened in Serbia before, but this will happen further, as electricity must be paid. The same goes for gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12997	The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12998	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, let's go ahead and skip the snakes. I would never do that if I were you because I think there is a very elaborate principle of how they are left behind, where they are left behind. It costs, but you said it cost this system too, so it's being established. It's much more valuable than you've taken her in, but come on. Let's go to the budget fund. You say one part of the funds will come from the budget. I agree. How do we know what part of the funds are when we have already destroyed the Environment Fund where exactly how much money is paid to protect nature in Serbia? All the funds that were paid in principle – the pay polluter was there and we all knew where these funds went. At your fund, we don't know what part of the budget will be in stake. When you say we have the possibility of a loan. I know, it's an area that is credited in many countries, so that's how it came to life, but how long can we raise the loans? Doesn't it seem to you that you, for example, came to power just because we criticized you and us who took out the loans? We won't be able to raise our loans indefinitely. We need to find our source of funding and keep that source stable. Let him be small, but he's stable and stable. So I'm not one of those people who thinks everything should be settled with a loan. We can find our resources for that. Now at the EPS account. Do you read Mrs. Minister's Forum? Read, it's interesting what citizens call those citizens who pay their bills in time. That's interesting because the team shows, if you're not the first government to work like that, and the other government has forgiven other funds, other funds related to, say, whether they're paid into a PIO fund or whether they're paid into a health fund, or something like that. You can't forgive anything indefinitely, because then you don't have any other sources. Those funds go to the budget. Two, let's say I'm not a saving citizen, so someone has to make me, the state to make me pay my bills. Why would I make myself pay the bills if I didn't have to pay the interest tomorrow? So I'm back in a position of privilege. It seems to me that this moment is an unnecessary, hasty move. I understand that you need funds in the budget and the EPS is in a very invisible position. We could have tracked it from the media. (President: Time. That's not the way. All citizens have to pay their bills in order for the state to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u12999	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13000	I have to tell you that these debts began to accumulate precisely in the period when your members were energy ministers and now we have the situation that a billion euros in claims from the EPS are from the economy and the population. It's just one measure. Of course we are working on a financial consolidation plan concerning budget users at the local and restructuring companies. There are serious problems that are related to EPS claims on this side. The previous governments just let us say the electricity doesn't pay. The previous governments have allowed you to have a selective power outage, to have a situation where in agreements with a manager or some other someone's power off and someone else's electricity doesn't shut down, and they owe one and the other, or the power goes off to someone for some little ridiculous amount and someone for millions doesn't turn it off. And that part exists. Now he can't do it anymore. The electricity will be excluded if the contracts are not respected, in terms of this reprogramme contract, which I mentioned, and the payment of the regular obligation no matter who it is or who it is to run these companies and how much debt it was, because it's the only way to start acting differently. There's a system and there's a criterion and we're gonna stick to it. Budget fund, I didn't say credit was the only way. Far from it. I said that the base of charge of the budget fund is the budget, and that there are possibilities that we have foreseen by law and written, and donations and loans. I don't agree that we should have loans either. I totally agree with you here, but I didn't say when I said it was the only way or the dominant way to finance energy efficiency projects. I think I said everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13001	Mr. Lapčević, I assume you want a replica on behalf of the MP's group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13002	You said the responsibility of the ministers who led this Ministry of Energy in front of the DSS is because the debts in the EPS are so great. It's not a political issue. You won't profit at it. The accounts for electricity were not paid by the citizens in 1990s or in 2004 or 2008, and you can find statistics on what the debts were in 2004, 2005, 2006 and what they are today. The reason you know what it is. What the Constitutional Court last year declared unconstitutional, the EPS has been back for years using a comfort method of illegal interest accounts by calculating interest and adding to the principal and again next month a new interest on that already existing interest. The solution to what you or the EPS Management Board have proposed will not give any effect. Interests will be written off for 2011. Someone who owes, for example. One million dinars, I don't suppose, because he shouldn't have come into a situation where he didn't pay, he had some reasons to be justified or unwarranted, and by making an analysis, there's about 150,000 to 200,000 majors and 800,000 interest since 1998 and so on. You will write off interest in 2012 which may be 50,000 or 100,000 dinars, and at best remains 900,000. You think you'll have an effect on that? Very difficult. The only correct solution is that the EPS first calculates all debts for electricity to citizens according to the legal simple method of interest, so when it shows up new accounts, then according to the social map of each of the residents, it is written off and the percentage is written off. It's not even fair to write off everyone's interest. (President: Time. I'm done. You have a lot of rich people who have regular incomes but have debts of two or three million each. Don't get into the social card system, and we'll write off the interest. Why? For those who do not and who enter the social card system, write off all interest on certain criteria, if necessary. But first, it has to be recalculated on legal interest. Unlawful interest can't make big debts and then be asked to be paid. No one will accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13003	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13004	Dear Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, your associates, dear colleagues and colleagues, it's a good thing we're back on the subject. Otherwise, we lost a lot of time just the most important time to educate our citizens in how to save energy and not to waste money from modest budgets. Unfortunately, it's been an hour since the game, and what we're talking about may sometimes be heard by someone after midnight, who has the patience to watch. In any case, with a great sense of satisfaction, I will vote for the Energy Efficiency Act. It took a long time, but it's never too late, and it's even my honor that this is exactly what's happening in this assembly and this government, the government whose coalition partner I am, the SNS, that's what you're doing. Madam Minister, congratulations on that. Here is said almost everything in a way to save energy, how to improve. I just want to point out some things that I first heard tonight. It is really embarrassing to see the inequality of citizens, and normally imagine how citizens of Serbia feel who regularly settle their obligations and those who do not have to. I will give an example of the Pećka Patriarchy, which in December was cut off by 1,700 euros, because the electricity was not paid for three months. So now we can say -- well it's Kosovo and Metohija, since in our Constitution, in my heart, in my head, it's Serbia and probably with many of you it's like that. So, if there's a chance that these people will be delayed by interest, which I support. I doubt anyone from the castle pays their communal obligations, among other things, electricity. If someone could invest their resources and do research on who these people are and what companies don't pay for their liabilities. That might be interesting, and I believe that we would find a lot of those who can and how well they pay and advance to give an advance. But I'm putting it on for a better time, and after the adoption of this law, to do so by modern managers, the modern management that I vote for with both hands. That's great, that's good. Normally, the question arises -- how will you, Madam Minister, be able to reward these people? Supreme managers, I repeat again to you in this assembly, not just you and the other ministers, will not work for a salary of 100,000 dinars. No way. I don't know that. So no one could hire me for that money. I'd rather volunteer this way and help as much as I can. But you know best how you will and what you will. I'd give a Serbian example, I'd say, a debauchery, non-domestic, very bad example of how in the morning a light bulb, a TV or any home machine turns on, so it doesn't go out until it's down. I fought that war in my house until I made some kind of intelligent house, so now everything works automatically and I don't have that problem anymore, and normally with my wife I'm in great relationships right now. As a rule, he's doing all this. What do I mean by that? It takes great information, education of all of us, especially those who are public figures, your ministers, our MPs, to in a sophisticated way lead to the mind, to the knowledge of those users to realize that every light bulb is minus from his pocket, if it is included, and not necessary, that every television that works 24 hours of retail in every housewife, even in the kitchen, is unnecessary. You know the show that a man can watch, that he can't follow. I'll give an example now, I worked for two years and lived in Turkmenistan. It's a land of 560,000 square miles, one of the former republics of the Soviet Union, 70% is desert, the sun. The richest gas, oil and cotton. Do you know that all their cities are lit, street lighting is solar energy? Look out, those who export $120 billion a year of gas, oil and other products. Do you know that all their stadiums, I've had the honor of running five stadiums, five hypodroms, five museums, on solar energy. So, I really most sincerely welcome the great effort and the efforts of the minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlović, with her colleagues and I think, despite the fact that we are left in the hall of misery, we are not here, that it is in any case desirable for everyone to vote, all parties to vote. I didn't mean to offend anyone, but I'm sorry that such an important subject, an extraordinary subject, doesn't have its listeners. There are even opponents who have reached the late Chavez. You see how far that's led us, we're talking efficiency, energy savings. Secondly, what I was going to say, when it comes to confirming the state agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the state of the Russian Federation, normally and for that agreement, I am voting on that law and who cannot vote on it. What were we supposed to do? To sell this NIS to Hungary's Mola, who buys gas from Gazprom again, or Austria's OMV, who also buys gas from Gazprom and sells oil to us? I cannot understand certain colleagues, especially colleagues from Vojvodina, who claim that we have already fallen into this debt slavery. I urge that the South Stream be built as soon as possible and that it be completed before the deadline. That's the second Danube. We have one Danube who has given us God, and that South Stream is the other Danube. Besides that South Stream, I don't know how familiar you are, and on one side and on the other, there'll be 100 metres of free space. There can be hundreds of small factories, hundreds of businesses, motels, hotels, new cities, if not cities, then settlements. Now, let's say, when spoken of, it's said that these, I don't know, grieving girls, I don't know what to call it. Let's say a colleague who wasn't here from the Vojvodina, who was speaking. I'm sorry he's not here to hear, but I'll probably talk to him at the coffee shop. That's what citizens are talking about. Imagine in Vojvodina, everything is shut down, at least 90%. Houses, buildings, many businesses have been gassed, and don't forget that gas is not paid at commercial prices. That's where the great loss of "Serbigas" comes from. It's social. So the state compensates them for heating, and please excuse what these people in southern Serbia, in the north, in the northwest, in west Serbia, in the southeast, they don't say for free the more sad it is. They're not compensated for buying wood, coal, a lot of oil. You understand. So these are really broad and long topics, but when it comes to the contract, i.e. An agreement on a gas arrangement between Russia and Serbia, I am ready with every fellow MP of mine, so that he does not take time here, with a coffee to sit down and defend those views professionally and in quality. Thank you. I'm sorry I kept talking for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13005	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13006	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry, I will talk about the Law on Effective Energy Use and, at the beginning, to say that this law is quite like, it seems literally in the same spirit and literally a lot of parts are prescribed from the bill proposed by the previous ministry, headed by Petro Skundric. It seems to me that in this sense the Ministry's policy is not changing and there seems to be only one additional level of red tape of this whole topic. It seems to me that we have an excessive number, an unnecessary number of institutes and too many ingenuities relating to the Ministry. The budget fund formed by this law shows another inconsistencies between the ruling majority and the government, because a few months ago you talked about how we have too many agencies, how unnecessary we are, how large consumers are, how these funds are wasted unintendedly. The Fund, which existed, or the Agency for Energy Efficiency, which was founded in 2004, at a time when the Democratic Party was an opposition, not to blame the Democratic Party for everything, was abolished, one of the seven agencies that were abolished, for God's sake of savings. Savings, of course, have not been achieved and Serbian citizens see it best. They see that although it has been eight - nine months since the new ruling majority, new authorities, Serbian citizens are living worse and worse. You can't blame DS anymore, because you've brought the budget, you're responsible now, and it's impossible, if you've cut costs, if there's no corruption, that citizens have become less and less. How is that possible? Today we have a situation that the consumer basket is 50% bigger than last year at the same time. How is it possible, if there is no accidental spending, if there is no corruption, and there was, as you claimed, at that time? I think we need to talk more about topics that are real, topics that will help us all overcome problems that are huge in this sector as well. Of course, it is not easy to conduct energy policy and it is not easy to talk about efficient energy use, especially in the light of the situation in which Serbia is located, economically first of all, because in this law we predict that we need, first of all, budgets and funding from donations and loans to implement energy efficiency projects. We can look less and less for loans because we're already too much in charge. Of course, that's the responsibility we all carry together. I'll remind you, the government was in debt and the DS was in power, but now it's in debt even more, four billion since the new government was formed, and the percentage of the debt has increased by the same amount. What needs to be welcomed in this law, and that is certainly good news, is that public undertakings that are engaged in the transmission of thermal energy have to introduce a tariff system and have to account for committed energy to users. This is a good solution, because in this way we will force them to in some way enable citizens to choose for themselves how they will pay for heat energy, and when they are determined for this kind of payment, they will surely see that they use and spend as rationally as possible that energy. What I certainly don't welcome and I don't think it's good, it's a regulation from October last year, a government regulation, when you made a decision to make a one-and-a-half relationship with the price for certain groups of remote heating users. I will set an example of my local self-government, because in the case of my local government of the city of Kraljev for ordinary citizens, for individuals the price has increased to 43%, and for business users, banks that are mostly in the city centers and municipalities have business spaces and are heated to remote heating, they have reduced the price of heating. It wasn't a good decision, and at least it wasn't a decision that was made at a good time. I just think that in one much better way to look at the whole situation, both social and economic, and then make these decisions, because this was really one drastic hit on the pocket of every user of the district heating system. What I think is crucial in this whole law and this whole issue is how are we going to deal with the losses we have in the transmission and distribution of electricity, first of all, and how are we going to stimulate citizens to turn to other kinds of energy for heating? This EPS must go from itself and warm its facilities first with other sources of energy, not with electricity. As for losses, which are not small, 2.57% are lost on transmission and distribution, non-technical losses are over 60m euros, which together is probably around 100m euros. With this one-year savings money, we can create a secure system and have capacity, it certainly exists in the ministry, in public enterprises, institutions, to make a measuring system, not just electricity, but to make a measuring and gas system and make a water measurement system, to make it all one connected system. That's one suggestion to think about. I think that way we can make a lot of savings. Finally, I have two questions for you. For the past few months, we've heard that the EPS has been in a difficult situation, that the situation is truly irrevocable, that it needs to be in charge of the EPS in order to survive. That kind of news came from the CEO of the EPS. I'm asking you, is this a real situation in this public enterprise or is it just one story that should be the introduction to the privatisation of the EPS? The second question, as I come from the King, where is the headquarters of the largest power distribution company Elektro Serbia Kraljevo, I ask you, is it true that the restructuring and corporateisation plan of the Elektroprivreda foresees the shutting down of this economic operator, in which over 600 workers work? I think that's a very important question for them and they're very interested to hear your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13007	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13008	I'll say a few things, first of all, about this regulation you mentioned. Why did the government even adopt a regulation on minimum and maximum prices? It was unusual for all of us why we said it at all – minimum prices. Everyone expected us to bring a regulation on maximum heat prices, and we brought it precisely for the reason that it happened in local self-government to safeguard social peace or perhaps its political stability, so to speak, by holding such a low price for the population and for the economy, or by ironing that low price for the population over the price for the economy. It was absolutely not real and the result was practically financially ruined heat. Then on the basis of a clear review and fixed and variable costs, we came to the extent to which the minimum and maximum prices, which are certainly not even by the heats, depend exactly on the variable costs that exist in the heats. In this regard, the relationship between the population and the economy — 1, or 1.5 — was also changed. What happened in Serbia in the previous period? You had a price for thermal energy by heat and local self-government, ranging from 20 dinars to 750 dinars. It can't possibly do that. It was one of the things why this regulation was adopted. However, it is not just this policy of heat and consumption production, it is not only that regulation. I consider it really temporary and only part of it, and the question is how are we going to establish a system and keep these heats as much as possible to energy policy, because heat is a very important part of the energy balance. The fact that local self-government is being put on the line, I have to admit, quite frankly, a lot of problems, we can talk about decentralisation, and it's all wonderful, but when you come into real life, then you realize that local self-government in a completely unfair way treats its heat, because these heats are now in difficult financial problems. They are not in serious financial problems because of the state's energy policy, but because they cannot find common language with their own assembly or local self-government, so we often have a situation where the regulation is not respected in some cities. How can you disrespect yourself? By implementing the government regulation, which needs to be implemented, and this new price proposed by local self-government in the assembly should be accepted, and local self-government does not accept, and then we have a situation so that some heat plants do not implement the regulation today. That's good because of the heat itself. Furthermore, we've prepared tariff programs for all the heat, we've sent them some other things, and we've talked to them about these calories, about how we're going to help them start measuring at cost over the next two years. So we're dealing with what's practically not directly in this ministry's jurisdiction, but we think we need to take care of the heat, because it can happen to us that the moment one heat doesn't work, we have an automatic response to the power system and, of course, the gas system. Furthermore, the questions you asked me, bankruptcy may be a difficult word, which the Director General said, but a negative cash flow might be a little different, but it's about serious financial problems. That means that these problems are inherited, they can't be solved in six months, but that's why we're going into what's called a financial consolidation plan. This means that we try to solve the issue of large claims, which certainly exist, I said, from both the republic and the local self-government, of course, there are also enterprises in restructuring. But, on the other hand, let's see where those internal reserves I mentioned are, which certainly don't mean firing workers. Another thing, when spoken, many today try and say that talking about the difficult financial situation in the EPS means that they will go to the EPS privatisation. No, he won't! I've said it a few times, and I don't know how many times to say it anymore. That's not the point. What I said about "Serbiagas", the aim is to enable the EPS to be competitive when there is market liberalisation, this EPS is competitive, not that when another player comes and appears on the market, the EPS simply cannot respond to such competition. Now, that's the goal of restructureing the corporateization of everything that's been done. I'll answer your second question immediately. Because I've heard that a few times already, that corporateisation of EPS means that companies, and there are five, will be shut down, so distribution societies will be shut down. That's not true! They won't be shut down, they're working normally. The other thing that's being heard is that it's going to be fired I don't know how many thousands of workers from these companies. No, that's not true! I don't know where it says it, and I don't know who said it from the government because nobody said it or talked about it. I have one quite different impression, that when it moves towards reform and change, let's say for the EPS, this isn't the first time. And once before, there was trying to do something, so it stops, and I hope it doesn't stop now. Then that fear of changing the forces of various factors to talk about that there will be layoffs, then riot unions, etc. And then we have a situation to stop with change. Now let me tell you, change won't stop. This does not mean absolutely neither shutting down companies, nor firings, it self-signs a different way of managing and exploiting, meaning, reducing costs, rationalising costs, solving, of course, by the state, how many countries in terms of these claims can influence and resolve. This means a different functioning of the EPS, for one reason only, to become competitive. Nothing else. (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13009	Replica? I don't see any reason for the replica, when the minister explained it so clearly. Come on, go ahead, but I really don't see any reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13010	I'll be brief. I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13011	I'm sorry. It's my right to give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13012	I'm entitled to the Rules of Procedure. Don't take away my rights. I won't be long, just a moment to comment. I thank you immediately for the sincere response around the heat, around the regulation, but it is not acceptable for a heat that has fixed costs to exceed the cost of purchasing energy to raise so much price. That's not acceptable. It's simply not acceptable for citizens and the government has to take care of it. People can't get into that kind of situation because someone doesn't do business right. Of course, I think that long-term shortfall and bad cash fleet for the electro-prived economy is a big problem, but that's the problem in general of our economy, which doesn't pay its bills, and that's, let me say, a serious economic problem, but there's another coalition partner that needs to sort of solve it. That's certainly not your problem. I'm glad to hear this from you for the EPS company, since, apparently, communication with the top of Elektroprivreda and the ministry is not good because they hear completely different signals and for that reason I asked you. It's just that you can hear it from them. So I asked you a question about shutting down this society, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13013	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13014	Just a little supplement, I apologize, about that communication. I don't like to never be a noise in communication, for the record. Not only have companies been notified, but I have held meetings with directors of companies, not once, but several times. All the things I've told you, and much more detail, they've been told. Is there any other reason I don't want to talk about right now, and I don't even want to think there are other reasons, letting things go public? Okay! Very soon you will see what it will really look like in practice. So, and how well-informed, believe me. Anyway, I have the impression that there will be problems when, say, they make their investment priorities plan or their maintenance priority plan. Will they be able to make a plan that will contain hundreds and hundreds of millions of dinars without perhaps needing anything? Well, that won't work anymore. So that's what's going to change. Why is the EPS in such trouble? I agree, he's in trouble because of the great claims, but, for God's sake, he's also in trouble because those who have managed, apparently, were very free in their desires. For what reason? We've got all kinds of stuff that's supposed to be held inside the EPS, and it wasn't a priority at all, so that's what they were doing. We have, say, some other very important things in both maintenance and investment that they didn't do, which are a priority. So, there's going to be some changes and then probably, then, as it happens with us, maybe some firms are running out of work, I guess, and there's maybe a reason why we have all kinds of woods. But everyone's been informed and we're always there, first of all, for me, always, to explain it specifically to them, whatever's not clear to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13015	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nebojsa Beric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13016	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the primary task of the Law on Effective Energy Use is to ensure and support the use of energy, which as a positive effect would have a positive energy supply, an increase in productivity and competitiveness of the economy, and in particular this law will positively reflect an increase in environmental protection. Also, this law is in full compliance with our obligations under EU regulations and laws, which will allow for the achievement of energy efficiency levels, which today exists in EU countries. It is significant to repeat what goals this law sets before it. First, it is the achievement of energy stability, which is seen through the reduction of electricity consumption, both in the manufacturing sector and in transmission, distribution and energy consumption systems. Also, the second goal is to increase the competitiveness of our economy, where energy savings in the production process lead to a decrease in the price per product unit. The third important objective is a positive impact on environmental protection. If, on the one hand, it takes into account that about 6.2 tonnes of carbon dioxide per capita is being broadcast annually in Serbia, which is about twice the average of other countries with the same level of development, which places us at the very top of the largest carbon dioxide pollutants in Europe, and on the other hand, if we come to the realization that applying this law and energy-efficient measures defined in the area of traffic, there is a reduction in fuel consumption, as well as a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 50% per mile. This just shows us how important this law is. The fourth goal is to introduce an energy management system, which will allow for the following positive effects. First, it's a reduction in primary energy consumption by about 8% by 2030. Second, the achievement of new jobs, the opening of market energy services, the possibility of increasing the budget on this basis by 220m euros by 2030, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 9% by 2030. From all the above, it is the meaning of this law that is here before us. This is why the SNS parliamentary group, in voting day, will definitely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13017	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13018	I come from Nis, or I'm a professor of medical school. I can pass on the effects of this energy efficiency from my clinical center. The government, led by the DS in the past term, has implemented EU projects, which have provided funds for the settlement of clinical centres, precisely on this topic of energy efficiency. The carpentry, isolation and, most importantly, the gas station at the Nis Clinical Centre was restored, so we had the results of the former republican government led by DS. So, at the very beginning of this speech, I would like to draw attention to that, as much as we try to impose some bad things, I believe that DS was very active in this and that it certainly supports all the good things that are in this law, with our authorised head of the Parliament club saying that with a few amendments we should fix this law. Serbia has confirmed its readiness to implement reforms in the energy sector, by signing and ratifying the Treaty on the Energy Community of the Southeast European countries. In this strategy, Serbia's energy development is by 2015 energy efficiency and greater use of renewable energy sources are among the priorities. By ratification of this Energy Community Treaty, Serbia has accepted, among other things, the obligation to adopt and implement the EU Directive on the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy sources, as well as the European Commission's directive and the promotion of the use of biofuels and other renewable energy fuels in the transport sector. The main goal was to reach the Republic of Serbia on 26 January 2009 and the member and founder of the international agency for renewable energy, as the first international organisation, as the first intergovernmental organisation to focus exclusively on renewable energy and actively continue to participate in the work of this agency in line with the Agency's Statute, its interests in the field of activation and use of renewable energy sources. At this point, Serbia has two main sources of electricity production, of which the water represents 25% and coal generates another 75%. The past government and this government are putting a lot of emphasis on building several gas power plants, and their development is linked to the pipeline from Russia, the "South Stream". Another problem in Serbia is carbon dioxide and its pollution from electricity produced from lignite coal. The situation also produces a financial burden that Serbia will have to pay large foams per tonne of lignite used to produce electricity. Since it is now a ton of lignite 11 euros, foams for its use are up to 20 euros per tonne of lignite, if my data is correct. Supporting the reason for green energy development, the DS finds that water reserves are limited and have a limit, as well as a threat that due to climate change, Serbia will not be the same in the future. Coal used in Serbia has a low energy value and exploitation will be increasingly expensive over time. We now have reliable estimates that certainly the price of electricity will continue to rise and in the next 20 years that price will be significantly higher. Also, it is clear that the price of gas will also have a rising trend in prices, and this leads us to the view that Serbia must invest in the development of renewable energy sources, especially from the wind, from the sun, if it wants to hold a good power position in the future. By investing in these sources of energy is an investment in our future, the future of our country and our successors. The resources of that energy are one of the most important for the stability of development and the possibility for the economy to have more percentage growth in the next period, which is why we need to turn to ensuring the production of energy and all available sources, and the only insufficiently used energy source in Serbia and in the world are renewable energy sources. The European Union adopted an integrated energy and climate policy in December 2008 and including ambitious targets for 2020. She hopes to put Europe on track for a sustainable future with low carbon dioxide, a more energy efficient economy. By reducing greenhouse gases by 20%, 30% if international agreements occur, by reducing energy consumption by 20% through increasing energy efficiency and obtaining 20% of energy from renewable energy sources. Europe has also created a clear strategy that can be presented briefly as climate change can achieve catastrophic consequences in this century unless greenhouse gas emissions are rapidly reduced. The European Union needs more secure energy sources, less dependence on oil and gas imports. We in Serbia have in the past few governments had quite a popular announcement of the pipeline from Russia. It certainly is a good source of energy, but that we must definitely turn to independent, renewable energy sources where Serbia would be the one to control and produce that energy, further distribution of that energy. What does Europe do to resolve these issues? Reduced gas emissions by at least 20% compared to 1990, 30% if other developed countries commit to orderly reductions. Increase the use of renewable energy, wind, solar, bio mass, etc. to 20% of total energy production and a 20% reduction in energy consumption from projected levels for 2020. What's going to change in particular? The EU package of measures, climate and energy policies approved in December 2008 implements these objectives. For power plants and high-energy industries, the drop in emissions has been 21% below 2005 levels. With the help of a guarantee to reduce emissions through the EU, through a trade agreement that includes a emission that covers almost 40% of European emissions, etc. What we definitely need to understand is that everything has a price, that electricity has its price, that gas has its price, that our future is certainly an EU accession, that our future is certainly the acceptance of European standards in all sectors, especially in the energy sector, and that renewable energy sources are something that, I think, unites us in this room. I don't know if anyone from any of the parliamentary groups has said anything the opposite and against renewable energy. What's fashion in Serbia is that the cheapest energy is electricity, that we're heating up electricity. The current is very complicated to get, from Gerdap to produce, to lead to Belgrade, my Nis or another city, and then to spend in a very unquality and bad way to serve heating. So something we have to change is our habits. That the current that the whole world keeps from its sources of energy is respected and that we try to produce electricity from renewable energy sources. That would end my exposure. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13019	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13020	Thank you. Madam Minister, honourable members of the Ministry of Energy, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the SNS will, with great pleasure in the voting day, support the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Russia and the Russian Federation, in fact on supplies of natural gas from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia because we are convinced and because we know that this agreement will ensure one energy stability of our country for many years. Also, there are a number of reasons why the SNS in the voting day will support the draft law on efficient energy use and one of the main ones, if not the main reason why we support the law, which is why it is inevitable that the law is passed is a major dependence on Serbia's import energy and is now at 30%. The structure of these imports is oil 52%, natural gas 24% and coal 14%. I am sure that no one in this room and that no one in the Republic of Serbia can be satisfied with that fact and that no one can say – that's good for the state, that's good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I can also ask why it has not entered into the process of passing and implementing such a law, if we know that most of the countries in the environment, and I would first say Croatia, which is the law on effective use of energy, which was adopted in 2008, which was revised in 2012. They've also been able to revise that law. They have a fully elaborated sublegal regulation and are already working to improve it. We also have an example of Montenegro, which also adopted the Energy Efficiency Act in mid-2010, and the sublegal regulation has been adopted in part and adopted. However, a man walking down the street, and a nonstop is at risk of being hit by a bus bus called BusPlus here in Belgrade or in a better version of hitting his head with a lamppost and smashing his head. Nothing good can do that. That is why I support your efforts, Mrs Mihajlovic and your associates, which is why such a legal proposal has been given in the assembly procedure, which will also be brought to life in the Republic of Serbia and what the effects of this law will be certain in the future and see and feel. What, and there are reasons for some who are not so dominant and in these reasons why this law is also passed and I see the negative impact of the energy sector on the environment. We cannot treat the environment so non-shalantly, it is not renewable so quickly, I am sure that there will be a respected colleague Ivan Karic to support us in this, because there is a large emission of greenhouse gases from the energy sector that seems to belong to some percentage of 76%. Why am I optimistic about this law? I am optimistic because the energy efficiency system will cover about 70% of primary energy consumption, and I am primarily thinking about companies with large-scale performance in the manufacturing sector if they use more energy than the government does, and that's around 130 consumers. Business companies with mainly labour in the sector of trade and services, it is about 30 consumers, local self-government authorities with more than 20,000 inhabitants, as well as the public sector, and thus covers this 70% of primary energy consumption, and therefore I am truly optimistic that this law will give good effects. When I return to the beginning of this exhibition and we know that Serbia is dependent on imports of energy, that trend can only be stopped in two ways. I think the Ministry of Energy, you and your associates and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have started and started activities on both tracks. One track is such that some alternative energy sources are supported, legally supported. Serbia, unfortunately there are not so many sites or oil or natural gas, otherwise we would be a very rich society and I don't believe we would be discussing this right now, but some very elegant topics, but we don't have it. What we can use are our hydropotentials, renewable energy sources and everything that we have in the past months since the formation of the government and spoken here in parliament and in which your ministry is extremely agile, giving input to legal persons and domestic and foreign people to encourage legal persons, to come and invest in this sector in the Republic of Serbia. And that's good, but that's not enough. You are aware of this, because no matter how much energy they generate if we open both windows and doors – for nothing, it will go away, it will be spent. We cannot act so elegantly towards something that is not cheap, because, by energy intensity, Serbia is at the top of the scale. I can understand that with those 0.56 coefficients we can't measure with Denmark of 0.08 or with Germany of 0.12, because these are countries with done and democracy and with a done system and system of values, we can't. But what would be wrong with us to measure ourselves with Croatia, with our neighbouring country, which is already one foot in the EU, which has an energy intensity of 0.18, which is three times smaller than Serbia. Three times more savings are being saved in Croatia than in Serbia. We must no longer act in such a non-chalant way towards energy, that is, the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, with all thanks for going both ways to provide some new alternative energy sources on the one hand, on the other hand to save that energy, I'm sure we'll see the effects already in the next period that this import dependence will be far less than 30%. In the end, I would return to something called our home, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as every assembly has a legislative function and a control function. I don't think that control function has been used in full capacity, and I don't consider it just when it's parliamentary issues, or government issues, I think the laws are like children. It's not enough to have them and let them go. Children should be raised, children should be controlled, I believe that most of us are parents and we know that very well. That is why I urge you, Madam Minister, to come to this house in the coming months of the application of this law and to boast of the effects of reducing the import dependence of energy, as well as the other effects of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13021	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13022	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, initially in an analysis of the Law on Effective Energy Use really is a good one, to say, not so often, but in the principles of economic cost-effectiveness of measures and energy efficiency, and in one part says – energy saved is energy that does not have to be produced, taking into account the positive effects of the environment created by the reduction in consumption. Unfortunately, such positive copies in this law do not have much to protect the environment, and even fewer in resource management. Of course, this other thing isn't even the subject of this. Just what you pointed out in this economic viability is what should be a postulate, a modern postulate that things in the environment and things in the environment and things about the environment shouldn't have a price just when they happen, but exactly the greatest value in protecting the environment is that some unwanted event doesn't happen. Unfortunately, Serbia is also measuring these modern neoliberal economists, counting on only what they can feel in ecology, as you have defined here in energy there is nothing to be touched, but also how it has financial what to assess, to certainly see that effect. But what we need to realize is that Serbia is an energy inefficient society, that Serbia unfortunately does not save energy and is not a sustainable community. It is up to us to see if this law will bring it, it seems that it has this intention and that, let's say, it can change the energy situation especially when it comes to efficient energy use and especially when it comes to, of course, this efficient use of energy and energy savings. We have such an energy position, to say, that so far, individual users, households, producers, large plants, public institutions, building blocks, have not been considered to achieve energy self-satisfaction and independence. There's something about this law. It may indeed be the companies that produce and sell electricity is the interest of profit, but what we're talking about is what's important for citizens and what's important for the state to have energy efficiency at an envious level, and in fact through energy savings, we may reduce profits to some companies, but in any case we protect the environment and strengthen the economic part of the story when we talk about environmental protection. Today was nice to participate, all this day in the debate, because the main words were either green energy or green economy. Finally, after a few decades, not too much thinking, we use words that are modern and hopefully we use them in the future to implement some of our things. We have an entrepreneur, I guess we're thinking of the same, a colleague from another parliamentary group mentioned him, probably him, that he supplies energy to blocks of buildings that connect to a heat pump and managed to charge only heat in the city, in central Serbia, not only heating, but also cooling at the same price that the city charges only during the winter season. That's certainly the intensity we have to strive for. Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's not when you're rich in resources, but even Norway that has a lot more resources than it needs is a very thrifty country. We in the Greens believe that remote systems must and can be replaced by energy systems in the neighborhood. That's what the previous counterpart, who combines heat pumps, say, that use the country's water energy with biomass sources, maybe to municipal waste, since that's also being talked about more and more, as well as solar heating systems. Anyone who is willing to invest in the system we're talking about right now should say that the state allows local self-government to be, in a way, guaranteed to take such favourable loans to increase energy efficiency and to say, by that "energy" from the neighborhood, reduce the environmental impact. The remote system as it is now would probably be unsustainable even though we would transform it onto biomass. Malma is an example of mass use of heat pumps. Barcelona is an example of the massive use of solar energy to heat hot water. Nothing can happen if our current heats don't become Eskimo companies that don't raise boiler rooms, but are invested in savings. There's a lot of it in this law, and it needs to empower people. It should also be potential according to the information that I received today from the Assembly, that companies from the Netherlands are very interested as ESC companies to invest in Serbia and will probably give them a good part of this law and make it possible. What's interesting about Serbia and Belgrade is that we lose 40% of our energy through facades and windows. According to the Green Serbia account, if only 10% of the facades and windows were replaced, the loss savings would be around 35m euros. Therefore, energy efficiency in construction and large cities of façade isolation, window replacement, with existing ownership structure, is not possible without the individual's great effort. Therefore, the state must enter there as a special guarantee, or the state or cities to be guaranteed to pay for these savings investments. We think that there are the ECO companies that want to invest, and those that can bring not profits, but savings and therefore bring about a better environment. Investments in energy efficiency are certainly the way to "green economy" and "green jobs". We have examples of innovative-energy-ecological solutions, inventions and patents. For example, one patent is a new solar collector for lens and mirror construction, which also provides winter fluid temperature from 95 to 100 degrees. It is made in Serbia than polycarbonate and is more durable than glass. This discovery and its early development have recently been supported by the Innovation Fund. So we have enough and professions and capacities and certainly to invest in mass energy savings would be the driver of a new "green industry" from which we could speed up our development, because unfortunately we are hostages of decades of stories that Serbia can only live from services. Without industry, there is no development, no opening of industrial new jobs. When Greens talk about industry, they're talking about the green industry anyway. I'm taking this opportunity and this conversation about the law to say I'm asking for help. We have an agro and a forest pellets with a VAT of 20%, and we have a heating tree that has a VAT of 8%. Shouldn't we make an effort to help people who somehow protect the environment to profit from it? This may not be directly in your jurisdiction, but we can all appeal to the DOJ together. The budget fund is what we hailed and what we greet. The Greens think we should support the establishment of a budget fund. Of course, it's no obvious innovation now. We remind you that the least there must be is one budgetary ecological fund. We talked about this budget fund, as a single budget section seven months ago, precisely because we would control the entrance and exit of the green couples, which you were talking about when you were talking about the energy budget fund. All the malfeasances or all the illicit acts, they know where they belong, and they know how to process them. Seven months ago, the Greens spoke of the devastating consequences of the closure of the budget fund. We are now passing new roof laws, of course we see a lack of budget funds. We remind ourselves that the lack of a fund, an ecological fund from which we could invest one part of things and what was the Greens proposal and what we could still think about, is that it does not destroy the concept of either the ministry or the government, and that is to think about a single investment capital fund in the perspective, that the state of Serbia is one of the founders of that fund, that all jobs in the environment, in the "green economy" can be helped, to lend, to Serbia to move faster and to develop faster. What really is in the funds is the most important thing to see is the flow of money. Unfortunately, we don't see money flows in the work when we're talking about environmental fees and pollution fees, but it's not part of this law. In the amendment part, I didn't say anything about it right now, we'll talk about the amendment part. For now, let's say, we're waiting for a follow-up. There must be enough arguments to convince us to vote for this law. I only speak for the Greens of Serbia. As soon as we have a number of amendments, it means that we believe that this law can be fixed, but that it can be voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13023	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13024	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, I hear a pitch when I answer my word. For those who earn me, the biggest victory in the political functioning of a political party is when after 22 years those who wore the badge and who fiercely criticised the lag behind European integration and those who criticised European integration at all, now talk about the necessity to adopt European laws quickly and efficiently. Where you will triumph over a political idea, one political option, when those who were fierce opponents of these laws and such laws are now the main promoters of these laws. It is a truly great victory for the DS and democratic, European, in Serbia. We can only be proud of that fact. When we talk about this law, but also about this agreement that's being signed with Russia, I'm going to take the opportunity to talk about both. You know, it's not clear to me when we talk about the law and when we call for energy efficiency and when we talk about that the heat in Serbia in the next period will go to the calculation of the heat supply through the charge over a calorie, how will this reflect the life of ordinary people? I usually like to recalculate that as a Kruševljan, and I'm not the only Kruševljan here in the hall, thank God, there are five of us, all of us are educated people, smart people, people who know how to count, they're all colleges. Now you're asking us what she said and Mrs. Comic, we don't know how to calculate with colleges how electricity is paid in Serbia. I don't know when I get to EPS how much kilowatt I've spent, what's the hired force. I don't think I'm particularly educated in some knowledge of electrical engineering, but I don't think I need any special knowledge. You know, my grandfather finished six grades of elementary school and by some there in 1976-1977, when he was alive, he knew, he spent so many kilowatts, he multiplied with so many dinars and he knew how much he needed to pay for the electricity. When we talk about heat energy, I'll tell you again that my neighbors have calories. Kruševac has the same heating problems as most cities in Serbia. Local authorities will change and local self-government will change. The public company "City Heat" is a public company. You may, by the government's decision, prescribe that the price of heating is whatever you want it to be, but the final word still has local self-government. Unfortunately, it's a big problem for you as Madam Minister that you have a problem that you can't make some decisions. It is simply the city congregation or the congregation of the municipality that brings the final word on how much they will charge the citizens through the charge of heat. However, when I refer to the experiences of Europe and we say that, behold, Croatians have achieved an energy efficiency index of so much, the Germans so big, the Dutch so big, they didn't do it overnight. You know, that's where the system has been set up for years, decades. They determine the amount of aflatoxin there, and then the minister can't happen and say it doesn't work anymore, now it's going to be this much. They find out what it's like... (Marco Atlagic, from the place: I, when I see you, am happy. ( b) What are you nervous about? What pains you to the incompetence of your ministers? I know it hurts. It would hurt me to be a member of your party. I'd be ashamed of you, too. I understand what you're looking at right now, but be patient. Of course you're happy to see me, I brought you into Europe, I took you out on a European track, I took down your badges, I gave you the courtesy of not singing songs here and standing in your shirts. I'm the one. Don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13025	Mr. Milivoevich, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13026	So, modern European democracies when they set standards and principles, whether it's aflatoxin or an energy efficiency index, do not change them depending on whether they have a capable or incompetent minister. They don't change standards, they change ministers when they're incompetent. That is the standard of Europe and the developed European democracy that you must be seeking. When we talk about an agreement with Russia, I know we have nowhere to find gas, but where there is. You know, it's not about pears, so we can choose if we're going to buy them in Duchalović or Stalats, this is where the gas is known. What is the matter with me as a member of the DS and as a People's MP to question? I do not object to Article 1 because it says – up to five billion cubic metres a year gas will be obtained as required by the Russian Federation. I'm upset and worried about one other fact. There was an MP in the O.R. sitting there at the back door in the back row. He said that when he became Serbian president, Russian anthem would be sung here, and Serbia would be Russian guberter. I am concerned about Article 2 of this Agreement, which leaves the possibility to agree on the details of this agreement on Russian Federation or Gazprom Export and Srbiagas or some other company. You know, there's a problem - how is our negotiator going to make a deal, and the Assembly doesn't know anything about it that he's going to agree to have an unfavourable contract, like it was with Ukraine, so we pay for the foams if we don't withdraw a certain amount of gas, because we don't know it or maybe he's going to make arrangements so that we're bound to take on more gas, a smaller amount of gas, or maybe, in accordance with good domestic business, he's going to manage his company and deal with the market conditions and market rules? We don't know that, and of course we don't see it from this agreement, because Article 2 of the Agreement has been left behind and transferred as jurisdiction to the contractors of the deal, "Gasprom" and "Srbigas". I wouldn't want it to be the subject of a front page the next day. I hope the party papers stop coming out, but there will be daily newspapers. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: "Pres" stopped. Haven't I heard the best? Go ahead and say it. Don't be like Alexander Wolfie. Say nice, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13027	Don't throw it away, please. There's no direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13028	So we have this agreement that practically brings us before the final act, because the gas is nowhere else to go in Russia and we have a law that we can fix with amendments. I'm gonna go back a little bit to that law again, 'cause I've got a few more issues here. When we talk about energy efficiency, it might be good to consider that cities are recommended that as many cities as possible light up with LED diodes and that these lamps that use this power consumption as much as they have, because the electricity bills paid for by urban and urban directorates that pay mostly street lighting are simply fratern, while, for example, the town of Svilajnac, which is run by DS, has been using street lighting with LED diodes for five years and is making very large savings. It may be a good example of the Svilinca to look at, since these LEDs and these street lighting lamps, the LED diodes squares will be produced right in the industrial zone in Svilinca in that factory that some have claimed will never be opened. On the other hand, when we talk about heat, a large number of European heat plants use pellets or agroplete to produce heat. Several heat plants have received agreements on obtaining very favourable credits for the use of pellets and agropletes, but, as Mr Karic said, we are burdened by the VAT rate of 20%. Perhaps you should consider reducing this rate and negotiating it with the Minister of Finance and saying -- you know, there is a need for us to step up the use of renewable energy sources and thus show real concern for our and our energy system, but also for Serbia's future and for what we leave for our descendants. We will see how you treat the amendments that will be handed over to the DS MPs by your coalition partners from the Green Party and then we will decide how we will vote when it comes to these laws. I underline, the citizens of Kruševec have tried what it looks like to heat, pay over a calorie. Some houses have calories. People on Oblic Street, where I also live, tried to pay for that district heating in January by calculating heat consumption over a calorie. It turned out to be more expensive and more unfavourable. Now, is it because it is made calorie, because people waste irrationally or which is a cold month January, we have not been able to determine, but I hope that we will not have in that account what Mrs. Gordana Komic said, an item called "engaged efficiency", as we have engaged power in the electricity bill. I heard Mrs. Secretary say there wouldn't be any efficiency involved. There's no need for that efficiency to repeat. I say we check out the remote heating bill when it starts to apply this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13029	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13030	I have to tell you that you're not exactly effective, because you've repeated half of what your party colleague is, so now I have to repeat the answer. There will certainly be no force involved, as I said and of course it is working on the accounts that the EPS will give to its citizens, or to its consumers, either to the citizens, or to the economy, which will look completely different from the current appearance of the account. One more thing, maybe you've brought us all into Europe, maybe you've done it all, but I have to tell you that you've just left your Kruševac, let's say, with no coal this winter, and that just as a new government, we've done absolutely everything we can to make this Kruševac get quality amounts of coal and that people have heating in Kruševec. Not to mention many more things that have happened in the past. However, when we disintegrate those malignancies of yours, there are good ideas that I fully agree with and that we will certainly run towards, say, the Ministry of Finance. It's precisely about that VAT, because one of the priorities of this ministry's work is that the heats get better, like I said, and that's exactly what they're going to use, let's say, biomass and just by being who the generic plants are, and besides that heat, they're going to give us electricity, which I think can only be a plus. This automatically further means that the transformation of primary to final energy will not be 54% like today, but will be 90%, which means that energy efficiency will be much higher. That's a good thing, and we talked about it last time, and we're going as a ministry, we've already done it, and we've sent not only a plot, we've given each other a story about biofuels, which is to get the excise off of them, so that they're blending into derivatives, and that's to influence, eventually, at a slightly lower price of derivatives. Furthermore, not to repeat the same answers, therefore, regarding the engaged power and everything else that you have said. We'll see the amendments and look at them with all due respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13031	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that some values, in order to be implemented, take some time, take years, if not tens of years, and that may be from a range of energy efficiency. But I have one question to ask. Although I just called in the discussion not to look into the past, because we're going to break the head, I have to ask – and who was in power and who had the chance to start these reforms? I wish I could start them? They don't have to take them all the way. Who's been in power for the last 12 years in different aggregate states? Serbian Progressive Party? No, I don't. Here are the effects in six, seven, eight months from the formation of government. Here are the effects, here are the reforms that our society needs. We'll start them. I don't know, but I've invited the ministry's representatives to come and boast about these effects. What should those who have done such a thing for 12 years be commended for? Justice reform, perhaps? With what? You can't say, well, you know, what he did, he's no longer a member, he's being expelled. But while he was a minister, he was a member. I don't know where you're going, and let's wash our hands. No, he can't. At the time when they were responsible, they were members of the party and responsibility must be endured. That's what they have to learn. However, as I see it, if the president of the state, President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, calls himself the president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, calls himself someone sitting in a bench next to the door, I see that the political option deeply falls to the percentage of support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that those who have not removed the badge have.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13033	Srdjan Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13034	I know someone can wear a European suit overnight, a European frak, take off their badge, but rhetoric can't forget so quickly. That's not to be forgotten, there's no salami and no tea that forgets. You know, those who have managed this country for 12 years in various aggregates, made sure to go to Europe without visas, not across the border crossings of Carlobag, or Ogulin, or Virovitica, or Karlovac, but as it should be done. These, who managed this country for 12 years in various aggregate conditions, found the country destroyed, destroyed, without pension funds, without salaries, with an average pension of 50 marks that was 27 months late and an average salary of 97 German marks. In just a year they managed to fill the Pension Fund, secure in the middle of the winter electricity and coal for heat. Mrs. Mihajlovic, let me tell you too, because you don't know. When the DS ran the town of Kruševac, not a day did the town of Kruševac run without heating. But not one day, in three years, the town of Kruševac did not run out of heat. What you have now, you have a problem because you didn't get coal in time, because I'm in addition to being an MP and I'm a councilman in the SO city of Kruševec, so I know how to get coal. I co-operate with the mayor, Mr. Gasic, and I co-operate with the director of Toplane, Mr. Azdejkovic. You know, we're still a small town, and we live on the same street, so we know what problems we're facing, we know how much trouble there is to get coal from the "Colubare" to Kruševec, to be quality and that Toplana works. Don't lecture me about what a pear's Toplan does and looks like. I know that, with all due respect, much better than you, because I live in Kruševec, not somewhere outside of that beautiful, beautiful city. So don't talk about it so we can be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13035	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13036	I have to answer that. You're wrong. You're wrong about the next thing. First of all, as long as they were alleging, yours ran the heat, that heat was financially and energized. That means next. The debts that this heat accumulated are not in first place compared to 57 other heat, but are among the first. When you talk about this coal and why wasn't that coal at the right time, or after leaving your purchases? That's because tenders were torn down and just those who had previously purchased coal from merchants have torn down tenders. After the changes that occurred in Kruševec, coal was obtained from an underground coal exploitation company without a trader and at a much lower price than from the one at which it was obtained during the previous period. When you say that, I'll tell you. I don't live in Kruševec, but I've been very informed about what was going on in that heat. It is a big city and there must be no problems in the delivery of coal, or in the production of heat. What's the plan for that heat is to try to keep it from using coal, because it's not primarily good for the environment, it's not efficient enough. We'll try to change it to use some other energy, and above all, I mean bio mass. I sincerely hope that this will be possible in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13037	The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13038	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs really can't be surprised if my fellow MP who spoke before me really believes what he's saying? It mentions a way of calculating electricity. It's the government where you supported the bill. It wasn't us. Men mentioned that within 12 years through various aggregate forms they were in power that their greatest achievement was to achieve a visa-free regime with the EU. What? Is that why the citizens of here can run away? To travel tourism can be a very small number of people. He says Serbia was raised from the ground. He forgot to say that he owed Serbia $25 billion, and that money doesn't exist, there's no telling what they've been spent on. Why doesn't he say the EPS is inequitable for 45 billion dinars? It wasn't this government that did it, it was your government that you supported. When you say you're making something out of foundation, it's easy for you to make a house of healthy material, but when you have 25 billion dollars in losses, the loans you have to pay back, you don't charge the house. You left us not an empty house, but a broken foundation. We must, not make it out of new material, but from the pieces you left behind from this Serbia. When you mention great European achievements, I agree that it is in the interest of all Serbian citizens to have Serbia join the EU, but not the poor people, but the people who can at least afford an independent life. You took that away from them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13039	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica [[Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: On what basis replicas?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13040	Mr. Chairman, I've been mentioned directly. That's why I called. What I said last July night in 2012, when the Ministry Act and the Government Act were discussed in this room last year, and then I asked, and thank God that it was done, a handover was made. That handover clearly showed what we found. Two minutes is a very short time to say what we have found, out of 7.1% of budget deficits relative to the gross social product, over 60% of the debt relative to the gross social product, etc., the devastated, ruined society, the empty budget, with no chance, the budget that was set only for the elections and nothing else. But what bothers me as a man, which is that in a parliament where there really needs to be development and controversy, and there are different opinions to be heard, whenever a critical tone is shown in relation to the situation found, in order to learn lessons, and not anything ugly to happen to anyone, it is said immediately – here is the vocabulary, here they come, here they are, here they are, I don't know which one there. What do we have to keep quiet? I don't know what's funny, Mrs. Comic. Should I apologize? Should we apologize for receiving support from citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the 2012 elections? (President: Time.) One more sentence. Should we apologize for also putting your statements on the rails of some other people, and then on the day of the vote last week, when the Serbian Progressive Party won both Serbia and Zrenjanin, members of the Democratic Party were prosecuted, detained because they physically attacked a member of the Serbian Progressive Party's election board? Where's the truth? Whose side is the truth?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13041	The word has a folk ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica, and Janko Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13042	You don't know how to build a house, you only know how to tear it apart. And if you don't believe me, look at the number of burned houses that have remained behind your authority throughout the former Yugoslavia, where these badges have defended Serbia and Serbia and where you entered the tanks and where the Serbs went out on tractors.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13043	Please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, return to the subject. This kind of replica no longer leads to anything. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13044	If you don't have the courage to listen to me, and if you just have to apologize for something, so apologize for that, apologize for coming to power by the Democratic Party in 2000, and found Kosovo with 60,000 pairs of NATO boots, and you said - if a NATO boot steps forward, you would leave politics. So apologize to Serbian citizens living in Kosovo today, not to me. Speaking of cruise heat, the Democratic Party took over in the town of Krusevec with a 7m-euro debt of city heat. If you think that we from the Democratic Party have a magic wand to fix seven million euros in debt and a destroyed boiler overnight, you screw hard. Do you know who we took it from? From those who wore a badge until the day before yesterday. We didn't process them because it's not the job of the Democratic Party. We've been doing a job to resuscitate the condition we found there. Believe me, we didn't leave him any worse than we found him. On the contrary, we've pretty much rescheduled it, and since we've rescheduled it or not, it's best to say the budgetary inspector who visited the city's heat after our government's conduct. Look at the budget inspector's report and ask him - I'm sorry, why you made such a budget report. Now I'd need six minutes to replicate, have a bicep group, where I have two bosses against me and a plus minister. But if I don't have more time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13045	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Zoran Babic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13046	Mr. Chairman, Rule 107 has been broken. No direct address is allowed at the National Assembly session. In his previous address to a respected colleague, more than half of the exposure was directly addressed, which is not allowed and I think you violated the Rules of Procedure because you should have warned him. I really won't answer my word again. I'm sorry that some people stay blind to well-intentioned lessons, for well-intentioned facts, and I see that still, no longer in the ordinary way, highways go and look back, and what happens to them, what to do, that's their choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13047	I have to realize that as far as direct address is concerned, it's a practice of both sides. Therefore, you must admit that this is the way you behave and the example each of you should give for the conduct in this congregation. I didn't notice he was talking directly. He was looking at you. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. Do you think we should plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. All right. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13048	Chairman, we are indeed in an unequal position. The SNS parliamentary group has two heads of parliament and you give a word in turn to one and the other, on the same topic, to defend the SNS. Is that a practice? Is that a new totalitarianism here in the congregation you're seducing? Just look at that attitude and style they have. Crossed legs, waiting for what the opposition will say. Just look at them. They're getting a alternating word from you without any basis. Our prime minister was killed ten years ago. These days we will mark the tenth anniversary of his death. The Serbian Progressive Party, which thus speaks of the DS, which speaks of the period until 2000 in which the party burned and burned down, which has destroyed the country, which has since coming to power... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13049	I won't let you replicate that tone. I don't know why we're tied up in the prime minister's murder right now. Everyone regrets killing a man, anyone, not especially the Prime Minister. I don't see any reason, and I'm asking you to drop the debate from now on. (Janko Vesenović, from the post: I will not give up. ) Here you go then, but I won't let you discuss in that tone you started.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13050	So, if I didn't now create a retrospective of their operation until they came back to power, the formation of this government, the borrowing of Serbia, I don't know in a minute what, 230, the world's debt record is. You've been in charge for six months almost as long as we have for a four-year term. If you continue like this, you will lead this country, as it has been brought, like these days by Novi Sad, to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13051	Time. Mrs. Comic, on what grounds? (Gordana Comić, from the post: National MP Zoran Babic mentioned me. He didn't mention you, you don't have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13052	Mr. Chairman, indeed Mrs. Comic is mentioned by name and last name. The Messenger of the people who did this will bear witness to you. He said – Mrs Gordana Komic is sitting behind the pay phone and laughing at me. You can take a look at it with insight into the stenogram, so that we don't advertise the Rules of Procedure, and you can also ask the professional service and, again, I underline the MP who said it. I don't think that's controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13053	I am prepared, if the debate on the subject mentions Mrs Gordana Komic, when I see a stenogram, to apologize. As far as I'm aware, and as far as I've been following the debate, it's not mentioned. It was a laugh-related throw, but I can't accept it as a mention. So I don't think I have the right to a replica. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13054	Mr. Chairman, for the sake of truth, I did mention Mrs. Gordana Komic, Vice-President of the National Assembly, because I really think, during the course of the presentation, that although some of our views do not match, they may be different, yet laughter is sneering, annoying, not appropriate to this hall. I accept your suggestion that it wasn't out of desire to challenge anyone on the line or to call anyone. If it made Mrs. Comić angry or angry, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13055	According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13056	Thank you, Vice President. A 27th member was injured by taking care of the order during the session of the National Assembly. My request for a replica is ahead of the chairman to discreetly decide whether he will give me the replica or not. It's your right. But it's not your right to be false. To be false, no one has the right, so there is no chairman, and it is a distraction and a violation of Article 27 that you are obliged to respect. Of course, I wouldn't think of looking for a replica, nor do I think I've ever misused the right to a replica, but I also have no intention of keeping my mouth shut about the abuse of my right to speak by the chairman or by any MP who has won the right to a word without any basis. It is your job to take care of the order and trust the MPs who want to use the right of the Rules of Procedure, with the knowledge that it is our discretionary decision whether to give the replica or not. In the stenogram, it remains that, without my word or word, you claim that I am not mentioned. I listened to the MP who got the word, I don't know on what basis, it's also your right, who used his seconds for further disqualifications. It's not the first time this assembly has discussed my smile. At a time when you were all a single Serbian Radical Party, one of your MPs asked to vote on whether a injured Rules of Procedure was injured when I smiled. We voted on it. It's not. If you want to vote again on whether my smile violates the order of the session, automatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13057	Time. I still think I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Any injuries we can, if you ask, plead in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13058	No, I'm not requesting a vote on the injury. I can only express regret that we do not respect this institution together. I watch what you do, I don't listen to what any of you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13059	Let me just add one fact. The habit of these MPs, including you, Mrs. Komic, is to throw yourself out of place, the debates are being commented. I ask all the People's Messengers to avoid it, and then there will be no dilemma and confusion whether someone is called or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13060	Chairman, I would now like you to apologize to me for saying I wasn't mentioned. I'd really like to ask you, since you're continuing on the case, which was quite clear on the Rules of Procedure. You continue one unnecessary atmosphere, setting an example for all of us to witness, to qualify anyone looking for a word... Since it was quite clear that I was mentioned and about which MP Zoran Babic spoke. [[Disabled microphone.]] So please excuse me, so we don't have to use the capacity of the board of directors, led by Mr. Zoran Babic. Some boundaries can't be crossed. We're in this congregation in communication, no matter what...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13061	Please, Mrs. Comic, you're out of the system. So, I can't hear you. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I know it. The reason I'm talking about my voice being heard. ) Mrs. Komic, unfortunately, I give you a warning. I give you a warning, for a simple reason, that you do not respect the chairman and will not stop the debate despite the fact that you are not involved in the system. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I think we should really break up with this way of work, and that there is a injured member of 107th and all of those members after article 100, who speak about how work should work at the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask, indeed, that, once and for all, we stop with one lie. I have to tell you which one it is. A party with the same name from 10 years ago, which is in the coalition... Mr. Shane, I won't allow any more. No, for the simple reason that you all try to abuse. No, I won't let you. I'm just not gonna let it happen anymore. Mr. Chairman, just allow me, that's one sentence. It's really one sentence that's very important, or then you break up with everyone... Just let me put out what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is about. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13063	Then explain. Then don't go to the replica, please. Please sign in again after I interrupted you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13064	The breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of allowing individuals, regardless of which MP group they belong, to present certain things that directly or indirectly offend the entire parliamentary groups or individuals, and that in the next moment you do not allow them to be answered, that there really is truth about certain elemental things. I cannot accept the situation that someone is saying things to the parliamentary group and members of the parliamentary group at some point, and that you tolerate it, and then when someone wants to tell them it's a lie, that you don't let them say what the truth is. Now I'm asking you for the two options we have. One option is to stop this and continue the session. Another possibility is that you allow it, but then let me tell you what lies are that we hear about today and a few days ago. I'll take your opinion as chairman, but I'm really asking you to have one principle. Either we let that be stated and we get to the truth by something that's not the point of the agenda, or you're going to basically end this kind of behavior, not to be insulted by individuals, and that someone can say what's on his mind, while the other one has to suffer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13065	Time, Mr. Shane. Unfortunately, the behavior of both sides is like that. Therefore, I would be most fortunate to have people discuss the subject and conduct a debate on the agenda, not to turn away from the agenda in which what it is. The word is Gordana Komic, an injury to the Rules of Procedure. That's how we end the controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13066	Thank you. You have recently made a member of 103th and 27th because you allowed the previous speaker to speak beyond Article 103. A clear procedure to specify the obligation of a member who has been injured and your obligation as chairman in the event that the MP does not do so, to give him a warning. Everything about applying the Rules of Procedure, we all have to respect the same and the rules have to apply equally to everyone. Every time you wish to abuse the right to receive words by breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must clearly follow the obligation that tells each of us in which way we must explain what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13067	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. No more replicas. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Mr Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13068	Members 104, 106 and 107 are injured. The last speaker in the discussion, from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, mentioned first that he was afraid of me. I don't know why. That's certainly not the subject of the agenda. Then he mentioned how we owed the state, how we ruined the economy. Just to remind me, from November 2008 to August 1, 2012, the government led by the Democratic Party sold more than four billion euros in the National Bank of Serbia foreign reserves. (President: Mr. Arsic, please, you have now crossed over, but if you remember well when it comes to... ) I'm just explaining how you violated the Rules of Procedure without allowing me the right to reply. [[President: You have no right, I have not given you a replica but a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13071	Mr. Arsic, just one little comment. If you followed me well, I did not allow the MP when he started, you remember well that I interrupted him and brought him back to the topic. I fully agree that there is a need for a proper hearing, and I personally believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. If you think we should say yes on voter day, please. Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Zelenović. Sign up. Here you go. I'm sorry, Nebojsa. I didn't see Gordana Komic. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13072	You have committed a second violation of the Rules of Procedure after the MP has violated the Rules of Procedure and has failed to act on the basis of Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure. You owe him an explanation. That's what article 103 says. Any lack of justification is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's easy for all of this to look like a party and use the right to free word, but it's not. If the rules apply equally to all, and apply, nothing less and nothing more applies to the chairman. Therefore, if the obligation of a Member of Parliament seeking the right to a word, on the basis of Article 103, to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure means to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure, to explain, the same member of the Rules of Procedure obliges you to explain the infringement. Very often it's a very difficult job for the chairman. I totally understand that. But that's no reason for us all to be deaf to the Rules of Procedure in that section, in Article 103, which binds us all, not being respected. My intention is not to stretch out, say a little ugly, during the session, or do anything else, except to defend my right to say what it is that the Rules of Procedure must be for each of us, as I asked for my right to apologize to me for telling the public that I was making it up. Since I am not making it up, and since we have heard it from the MPs of the people, I ask you to give an explanation to every MP of the people, because that is what Article 103 obliges you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13073	First of all, I don't take this assembly very seriously. It's not fun for me. So it's an insult to me, if you think I'm having fun here. Secondly, I warned MP Arsic that he would return to the topic, namely to discuss the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I warned him. So, I've done my duty under the Rules of Procedure and I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you can, if you want, plead in the voting day whether or not I've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13074	I don't want to plead on the voting day because I believe that together we can work on good practice and good procedure. It's in the interest of all of us, and the most chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13075	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13076	Injury of Article 109. I could order some other members. Imequately, Mr President, you are referring to MPs of position and opposition. Now you yourself said that you gave Mr. Arsic a warning, and you did not give Mrs. Komic a warning, but you immediately gave her a warning and took away her word. Therefore, you do not treat the ruling coalition and the opposition equally, and how, as chairman, you should at least have the same attitude, or attitude. We are not looking for any privileged position, but we do not allow them to have two heads of Parliament, so that they get a warning for the same deviation outside the agenda, and our MP is warning and taking away words.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13077	Mr. Veselinović, obviously you did not follow very well why I gave Mrs. Komic a warning. Not in the way she discussed it, but because she continued to debate aloud in the congregation twice, despite the fact that I asked her not to discuss it. That's when she forced me to warn her. That was the reason, and I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. On what basis are you answering, Mr. Komlenović?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13078	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. - the dignity of the Assembly. I just wanted to appeal, because this isn't the first time, this has been happening over and over again lately, to stall. There are people here who are on the sidelines, I don't think there are any deputies here from Belgrade. Excuse me, colleague. I'd like to ask my colleagues from the opposition and your positions and chair you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13079	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. I can't ban people from advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. It's their right to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, there was no injury. Being in a hurry, that's another problem. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13080	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will try to comply with this law on the agenda today. I'll be, hopefully, effective. I think it was a long time ago, about 10 hours ago, I was talking about the Energy Efficiency Act. More or less, I think it's clear, but I see that there are some, in my opinion, misunderstandings, or inconclusives by the minister, which are related to this other law, or confirmation of the agreement with the Russian Federation on gas delivery. What I kind of do not mind, but actually believe that this is a good law and that its idea is to ensure stability in the supply of natural gas markets and that the only way to do it is to do it this way. I have a problem as a lawyer because this agreement, the contract, lacks an important element. So I don't see what the value of this contract is, it doesn't stand anywhere and I don't think you've been here a couple of times in the debate with some other colleagues trying to explain it, but anyway, we haven't come up with that key thing. Now, is that because some colleagues haven't asked the right question, but I'll try to ask the right question, so please answer me. Will this contract be applied to the principle of taking or paying, or will we as a state have to pay the amount of five billion cubic metres of gas, or will we pay as much as we spend, or will we pay for the penalty difference between what we spend and what's reserved for us? I think it's a simple question, so I'm asking you to clear me out of this thing and I think it's good for the MPs and for the citizens to know exactly what we're on with this. As for everything else, I really don't have any problem with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13081	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13082	This is a deal, not a contract. Although you're saying that it's booked five billion, no, we didn't book it up front now five billion for, say, 2013, and then we're going to apply the principle to take and pay. No, this is a roof agreement that we provided for the possibility if Serbia needs to take up to five billion through an annual contract, and Serbia has already signed a 1.5 billion contract for 2013 this year. That's what we took and that's what's in the contract. The agreement that is the cap above says – yes, if you need it in 2015 or 2016 more, we will have the opportunity to make a possible annual contract at the amount we need, which may be greater than 1.5, and may be less. Who knows, we'll see how things develop themselves in the economy. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13083	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13084	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the interior and Madam National MP from Belgrade, you are easy to count. So, I'm going to try and talk about these two laws that are on the agenda, but after these burning discussions, I can't guarantee anything. You have to take good care of me and that other Rules of Procedure that's meant for me, just in case. Speaking of equal rights, I think I'm the most damaged here, and, interestingly enough, the one who has violated most in several calls for the rights of all other Members of the people, including those who are no longer Members today. To talk about the first law, which is an agreement with the Russian Federation, we will certainly support it because we have no other way out. Whether or not they want us to, we need to support this agreement before it's a bad deal. Under number two, it's not their fault the energy's expensive. They can sell these same energies in Europe, take money from Europe, count it nicely, and make new trouble for Europe. Russia is experiencing a certain economic boom thanks to gas and energy, and as the standard of citizens falls in Europe, it is growing in Russia and the Euro-Asian Union. So, thanks to these very energies, I think that we are somehow well-fused, unlike some European countries, which, thanks to some of their other arrangements, receive at first sight somewhat more favourable conditions. So far, we have to do it through Hungary, and that's the price of gas, anyway. The Hungarians know what they're doing, and that transit through their country has cost us dearly, especially since we didn't have a warehouse and a Banatian court. It is clear to all, who knows about the gasification in Serbia. I don't think anything in Vojvodina is privileged. They had gas as a choice of energy. However, all energies are now equally expensive to me because they are not available to citizens, or because, not because of the global economic crisis, but because of some other crisis that has been caused in the last ten years. Thanks to the poor organisation of the state, the population is in such misery and poverty that it cannot pay for energy, whether it is gas, wood or coal. Energy efficiency is the savings that should be savings without being at the expense of population standards, nor at the expense of production. Therefore, savings that would deny the standard to citizens in a certain way and that would reduce production would not be energy efficiency. So, energy savings have to be such that even if production stays the same, if not to grow, I hope it grows, and we save some electricity. Why am I saying this? Because Serbia, at this point, seems to me, almost 60% of total energy is spent on household. All 40 per cent spends on other activities, which shows that Serbia today has no production. In the last 12 years, and it took a little longer, I must admit, only imaginations and illusions were produced in Serbia and nothing else was produced as well as those two things. Energy savings can be achieved in many ways. They can be achieved by adaptation of existing buildings, adaptation of certain heat, etc., but they are also achieved by so-called. Green construction. So that energy efficiency standards are immediately respected during construction, and this is called green construction, so that the choice of materials and insulation is done by guaranteeing as little energy consumption as possible. As far as households are concerned, this is usually done through thrift lamps, in exchange for carpentry, insulation on the walls, insulation on the roof, and heating panels. So only by isolateing the walls and replacing the carpentry can a 30 percent savings be achieved. While I was president of the Indjia Municipal Assembly, we replaced kindergartens with all public institutions, schools because of energy efficiency without having at the time, and we know who ruled 2006/2007. In the year, no government stimulation, by the state, and we didn't even have access to various European funds that would guarantee us some subsidies in that sense. But in seven years, through our energy savings, that investment has paid off. So the money was completely returned through energy savings, the one that was invested with the replacement of worn-out carpentry at all schools and preschool institutions, public institutions in the Indji municipality. We did it, and maybe we'd better wait 'cause maybe we could get some money out of this fund right now. Energy savings, of course, can be achieved in various other ways. Of course, through renewable energy choices. At this point, I think Serbia is spending almost 500m euros annually on heating, as far as I know. If the savings were only 10%, that means that yearly, which is not so hard to achieve, Serbia saves almost 50m euros, which is a flat wholesale price of about 100m litres of diesel, which can be handled by a million hectares of the country. So, it's not about negligible values, just because of the viewers, it's about not being a piece of crap, but that it can also bring economic benefits, not just for the state, but it can be an economic benefit for every household that is defined as saving energy in a certain way, and through this law it will grow into some obligations. As for energy, I think Serbia has its own oil fields. I'm about farming, and I think agriculture and energy are two inseparable branches in a very close future, and I'm going to try to explain that with cows, if that's allowed. They were such pets, so dear and kind in the campaign, so I guess you'll let the energy, and the assistants, I believe, and the minister know what it is when I say that cows are very important for energy efficiency because of renewable energy sources. So, no matter what they were fond of in the campaign, they almost had a cowicide. We have only 400,000 cows left since 2000. We have 400,000 least unprocessed land mostly in central Serbia. So these are lower quality land, but they are ideal for fruit growing, but besides fruit growing, if they are not the most ideal for agricultural production, they are for growing green mass from which energy is made. In combination with green mass and cow dung at 200 acres of surface and 150 cows get one megawatt of electricity unless I'm wrong. You deny me, so with 200 acres of green mass and 150 cows you get in combination with green mass and balega, you get one megawatt of electricity, or 1000 kilowatts per hour. If we have 400,000 since 2000 abandoned hectares, it's not hard to calculate that somewhere, divided by 200, it's about 20,000 different farms, and those 500 thousand cows that are missing just to have 300 thousand more cows, so we could produce 2,000 farms that could produce one megawatt of an hour of electricity. When we turn that into money, you're going to get one number, which is about to say that it's somewhere at a price of 14 euros or how much it's already paid, so you're going to get a price for 200 such farms, that's 200 megawatts times 24 hours. That's all when you multiply you'll get electricity worth about six million euros a day, times 365 days. The loss only on cows, because the cow was made from 2000 to today, because we don't have 400 thousand at least 700 thousand cows, we had 900, which was slaughtered, which was just as desirable in the campaign, the loss on it is now two billion. Through the amendments to agriculture, I defended the view that Europe has a hyperproduction of milk and that we need to grow cows that give quite a lot of milk, medium to be, but also give a lot of meat. Since Europe has a lack of meat, and by hyperproduction of milk and the whole milk affair it has created. Except for meat, cows make electricity into green mass, and all these farms can be covered with pans, so that kind of agricultural production combined with energy can add an additional value of around two billion euros. Our entire production, all our goods that we produce without trade in services, etc., does not participate in GDP nearly 10 billion euros. So, we have to turn into production, and I think that agricultural energy is the first two branches to go hand-to-hand, but it's not energyy, it's our oil fields, and our natural resources don't need to be given, we need to use them to raise the standard of our population to make extra value, so that no one is bare, that no one is hungry, so that no one is a slave at this point we have, since 2000, over 450 thousand workers to be employed, who are fired. In addition to energy and agriculture, energy should be used to process other agricultural products and thus we will get to the processing industry and all other accompanying activities should pay for these three branches. That way we can provide work for our population. I'm affected that in the energy efficiency law, we're all being accused, collectively, of some shadows, of the spirits of the past. Of course, I didn't recognize myself personally in that. So, I'm going to name just a few facts that our exports in the last 11 years, so since 2001 they've been under the fullest 60 billion euros, and our imports have been over 120 billion euros. Eleven years earlier, a 65 billion-euro deficit was created only in trade. That's what keeps us from investing that money in those branches that I've said, and that's why it's the fact that this lack of money, the money that's easily spent, the money in debt, is now preventing all the energy agricultural projects from developing this country. Unlike some others, this country needs to take advantage of its natural resources, and someone said before me, and I know who, that there are countries rich in natural resources, but people are poor because there is no one to organize it and to use it for the benefit of people. There are countries that have nothing, they only have sand, but they're rich because people get organized there and they know how to use it. I think it's time we turned to the first one, that our government, the government that I voted for, that she be the first to know she's organizing a state, who's going to know she's organizing a business life and that she's going to use her natural resources for the benefit of her population. So, that this is no longer the most fertile rich country in which poor, hungry people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13085	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13086	In the end, I will only say a few words relating to the energy-efficient energy use law. So the ZZS parliamentary group has invested a number of amendments and I hope they will be accepted. We believe that this law, the way it regulates problems about efficient energy use, is very important. We all testify that this law is important and necessary at the same time. We are also aware that this law was made while the former government, or government, was built while there was an earlier government, would now come into force. We believe that now the greatest responsibility is at the ministry itself and that the ministry is that which as the top of that energy management system should start the whole story. We will work as the MP group of the U.S. to be a constructive opposition and to support all good laws and at the same time try to fix those that do not work. We're looking for what I said this morning, so we're looking for action right now, and I don't think we should wait for next year, and I think a lot of things can be done right now from spring, that they're going into building isolation, that they're going to be employed by the domestic industry, building, that they're working on replacement carpentry, and that they can give concrete results very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-07-0.u13087	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a law on efficient use of energy and a bill on the validation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on natural gas deliveries from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Serbia. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. We continue with the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I ask the MPs to sit in their seats to enable the work of the Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. 84 MPs are present among the total number of MPs and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs allow me to congratulate the ladies of the Members of the People before we continue to work on behalf of the Presidency on behalf of all women of Serbia, and especially on the ladies of the People's Parliaments, amongst the national celebration Women's Day on March 8th. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Dronjak, Branko Ružić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Zlata Djeric. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that I have also called on the meeting of Milan Miljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism and Milija Djalovic, Head of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, to be present. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the principle search of the third item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW FOR SPECIFIC CONDITIONS OF THE RIGHT TO PUBLICATIONS OF THE ENTITIES CONSTRUCTIONED WITHOUT CURRENT LICENCE. You've received a bill from the government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs of members of the parliamentary group. You have time in hand. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of Members of Parliament based on Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 157(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposalor's representative, Mr Velimir Ilic, the minister of construction and urbanism want a word? Here you go.
