ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session exclusively for Friday 30 August 2013, within a short period of time, as set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as those laid down in Rule 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to select members of the Government as soon as possible. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called this session on Friday, August 30, 2013, so within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure for the need to select members of the Government as soon as possible. According to Article 87(2) and (3) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to make the selection of members of the Government as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the promoter, Mr Ivica Dacic, the Prime Minister, to be attended by all other members of the Government, the Secretary-General of the Government and candidates for the new members of the government, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia. Let me greet them on your behalf. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see, for the sixth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, I found the following: The election and swearing of members of the government. We're going to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal from the candidate for members of the Government, which is in accordance with Article 133(8). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 25(2). The Government Act, submitted by the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. In this way, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conditions were met: to open a search for candidates for members of the Government, to elect members of the Government and to swear before the National Assembly. I remind you it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure have a total debate time of five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. Is there any suggestion that time should be longer? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22689	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and colleagues, I think that the ruling coalition has been too irresponsible to the government's own institution, so that today we can reconcile with one of these types of relations, and that is why I ask that time be extended for debate, during which we should get answers to questions that the ruling coalition obviously wants to avoid. You've said so many big words, Mr. Dacic, you and your colleagues, over the last few months, explaining the reconstruction that has been here before us today, through the new candidates for vacant ministerial posts, that the minimum of what the ruling majority should show to this country is, in fact, your willingness to finally, after six months of the government's reconstruction, finally talk seriously to us as representatives of the people who have been hostages and your impotences and your indecisiveness, a startling incompetence that is being determined, among other things, and through a proposal of the new 11 ministers who will probably take over from tomorrow. So, I ask, on a scale with Article 98, to extend the time for discussion and in such a way, even if politely, to end the process of the government's reconstruction, which has been marked, I said once, and to the irresponsible and worrying impotence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22690	LDP President Cedomir Jovanovic has suggested that the debate be doubled for a long time, i.e. the debate time for parliamentary groups. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that for – 90 MPs, against – two abstentions – one did not vote – 127 MPs from the total of 220 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22691	Mr. President of the Assembly, I'm advertising an article. Rules 86, 87, 97, 121, 27, 70 and 107. In fact, all of this applies, unfortunately, to one sad fact, which is that we received this meeting yesterday and that we, as far as the new government and future ministers are concerned, unfortunately, and other Serbian citizens, have learned from the media, which we think is really hurting the dignity of this Assembly and the government itself, and brings us to a very specific situation that we suspect has been done on purpose, which is that Serbian citizens today start to watch and listen to something called a 15.00-hour programme and work plan, which means, as we have seen in the media, you've already decided who's going to speak today, so you said -- you're going to talk to the heads of the parliamentary groups, and the rest of them, or later, or at night, with the obvious intention that this government be elected in the dark and that no one can see alive and hear what these people who came here today to sit in front of us, because if this is done, we're going to the wrong, we're going to work with the wrong group. Therefore, I ask and appeal that we take a brief break, that the heads of the parliamentary groups in the college with the President of the National Assembly try to find some agreement, to make a decent one, as you like to say, order of driving and passing time, to see what we will talk about and who we will talk about, and whether anyone in this darkness, who sets it up, will be able to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22692	I must say, I disagree with the fact that I broke the Rules of Procedure. The session is scheduled at a very decent time, therefore, during the day and when Serbian citizens can see everything that is happening here and estimating, of course, everything that fellow MPs from the government and from the opposition say is necessary as soon as possible to resolve this. Many pointed out that this reconstruction took too long. I wanted to do it as efficiently and as quickly as possible and as soon as the Government sent a proposal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which did not bring in my party or the current ruling majority, which allows the President of the Assembly to schedule a session within 24 hours of the submission of the proposal, I have scheduled a session where everyone will be able to say everything they think about and discuss the election of members of the Government, which I think is quite in line with all the democratic procedures and procedures provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, in no way has the Rules of Procedure been broken, but, of course, if you insist, we can declare that in the voting day. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22693	Mr. President, I ask you, in accordance with Article 101(2), to carry out the necessary consultations and to obtain the necessary opinions from the relevant assembly committees, and before that, to announce a break in the work of this session, because you have disobeyed our proposal as a parliamentary group seven days ago, asking us to talk to the people who are going to lead this country tomorrow, which none of us here in parliament in the majority knows, nor anything professional about them. In front of us all MPs, we have the exposés of the Prime Minister. Mr. Dacic, you haven't said a word about the people you're proposing to us as ministers. Mr. Krstic, do you think it's normal for you to go through six interviews in MacKenzie and to be elected Minister of Finance here without a word and thus pass thanks to the will of the ruling majority? Mr. Dacic, can you tell us anything about the people you're proposing at board meetings, so let's ask you a question that they can answer, because in this debate they can't answer? Are we interested in whether Mr. Radulovic is in conflict of interest? What's he running for financial expert at the Home Office? How did he do his job as a bankruptcy manager? We are interested in what is running for professor of agriculture in Novi Sad for the post of Minister of Agriculture, especially in the situation in which our agrarian is located, whether he has an understanding of the protests of farmers or not? These are key issues for the public as well. We're interested in what's running for young and successful waterpolite for Minister of Sports? What kind of pollen is that? That's what we were supposed to talk about seven days ago. You're pushing this debate into the atmosphere in which we last discussed when the minister of justice came with the bill of government. Let us talk in a decent way, because this is still a subject that deserves special attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22694	I am obliged to give an explanation, or an answer for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt for a few reasons. The first reason is that the president of the National Assembly does not have the mandate and the authority to convene committee meetings. That's what the board presidents do. Only if the board presidents say they don't want to convene committee meetings can the president of the National Assembly be ordered by the board president to call for a session. So the president of the National Assembly doesn't have that authority. Secondly, it is very, very important that the committees themselves do not have the electoral function of government members. The election function of members of the Government has a plenary of the National Assembly, and legally, government members cannot account for bodies that do not choose them, resolve or discuss their trust. The Committees of the National Assembly discuss plans, a programme with draft laws and laws to be drawn up by members of the Government, but not their appointment and resolution. In other words, I have consulted a little and something that has happened in the previous assemblies of this National Assembly, so when you are elected as a member of the Government. So you didn't explain your plan to any committee. I think that so far has been unremembered in Parliament's practice and for this reason we have continued in the procedure that Parliament had in the previous 15 or 20 years. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22695	Member of the 107th Mr. President, your argument was not precise. We got the material, less than 24 hours, you didn't give an adequate explanation why? Just to answer what you said. I think that's where you broke the Rules of Procedure. At 4:00 a.m., we were called together. I think it's time for something like that to be done in a way that's better than the Ministry Act that takes seven minutes to read at most. I agree, the DS wants to make a full contribution to a quality, reasoned and successful debate, but we can't do it this way. That's why I think the distinguished colleague made a mistake because he's asking Mr. Dacic about the ministers, he's Mr. Jovanovic, he can't answer you, because he doesn't know them. That's what you have to ask Mr. Wolfie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22696	The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22697	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to clarify one thing. I'm talking about article 107, about a violation of the Parliament's dignity. Today we are not talking about government members and we are not talking about people who are already members of the government. We're talking about candidates. The committees, when they exercise parliamentary control, then exercise control over the authorities in relation to those members of the government who have already been appointed. The candidates must first get the Parliament's trust, they must get the mandate to work, and then when they are in that capacity they appear before the board, then we can talk about parliamentary control of the government. So I ask you, Mr. President, that, accordingly, you bring the discussion into the right track and that we talk about the exposé and the choice of candidates for future ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22698	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22699	Mr. President, members of the government, candidates for members of the government, I think you've injured a member of 44th and a member of 34th. Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. At one point when you explained your refusal to accept that you had injured the Rules of Procedure, you said you had drawn some conclusion from what the opposition MPs were looking for. That is why there is the Institute of the College and the meetings of the Colleges, parliamentary groups, so that you do not draw conclusions from the debate or draw those conclusions that go in favor of you, but that all representatives of parliamentary parliamentary groups would have the opportunity to talk about it and to come up with a common position at the session of the College. Please no longer draw conclusions from the debate, those conclusions that suit you, let's just say that everyone wants the government elected as soon as possible. Because we want the government elected as soon as possible, but before that, we want to talk to potential candidates for ministers and what their policy will be. It depends on how we speak in this debate and whether we vote for the government. You've violated Article 44. The Rules of Procedure by introducing an amazing interpretation that committees do not have the right to speak or question or to hold a debate with ministers or candidates for ministers because they do not have an election function. That's not true. The Committee also adopts reports from competent ministries, monitors the execution and enforcement policy and the government's policy. We wanted to talk to those committees about it. You know, Mr. Stefanovic, it's no argument for me that this has never happened before. It's true it hasn't happened before. We wanted to establish a new practice together. It exists to Mr Stefanovic in a series of parliaments of developed democratic countries and we thought this was a good time to introduce this practice into Serbia's parliamentary life as well. That's why we made such a proposal. You could have turned him down, but I think the elemental order was to at least respond to that proposal before the beginning of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22700	As for the course of the session, the College does not regulate any way or writes in the Rules of Procedure – in any way it does not regulate the course of the session. This is done by the President of the Assembly and has been authorised by law, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to take care of the course of the session and to determine when the session will begin in accordance with the law and the abovementioned act. As far as that goes, you're wrong. I believe in your not deliberately misreading of a 44th member of the board's work. You've led the committees to consider the ministry's reports. We are not considering any ministry report at this session, but we are choosing members of the government. The committees are considering what the ministries are doing and what members of the government do when they are elected. The committees don't discuss candidates for members of the government. Secondly, when parliamentary practice is established as you said, it is necessary to provide for a majority that would agree to this. Since you failed to provide this, we continue with parliamentary practice that has been secured in some previous times and some previous majority. Whether it's one way or another, you have the right to interpret it, but it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the law, and that way we will continue to work until the Rules of Procedure, or the Law, is changed. I think that's very clear. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22701	Thank you, Mr. President. Keeping order at session, article 105. I want to help. Let the policy go, because today we are discussing new ministers here and it is a great pleasure to do so exactly as the Rules of Procedure and the fact that we are sitting in the highest body of government, the highest legislative body, so that we respect the dignity of the Assembly. As you know during this session, those candidates for ministers, otherwise welcome to the National Assembly of Ladies and Gentlemen, I hope soon and in the Government of Serbia, they cannot speak. They don't have the right words. All existing ministers have the right to speak. It is correct, so it has been during previous reconstructions, on the one hand, because these are the benches for ministers, sitting ministers, and candidates on the other side. In this way, it is clear to all and before the eyes, if they want to help future ministers in work, they address them, and if they want to criticise or praise or support existing ministers, they address them. It's easier to hold order at the session, because you won't be able to hold the presidency all the time, and one of the vice presidents will have to. Please replace the seats and sit down as they can in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, candidates and ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22702	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22703	Mr. President, do you see what the Assembly is turning into when, for no reason whatsoever, just because of inexperience or willingness to tolerate someone's inferiority, this is how we begin the debate? How can we talk as MPs to people who can't answer any questions? How can we vote without being serious if we are not in a position to talk to those with whom we should plead as MPs? You remind me of the way I've been chosen. Well, I know how I was elected, two days after the murder of Zoran Djindjic, in a state of emergency, as head of the parliamentary group with two years of previous work in the Assembly. I think it's crucial for this society that the people who run this country have the ability to lead it in this crisis. Why are you setting yourself up unnecessary obstacles? We wanted to talk to the committees the way we couldn't talk during the formal debate. You've denied us the possibility of something like that. Here's the Prime Minister's exposé. Not a word about 11 ministers. Some of them we know, have been involved in politics in the past. But on what basis do we declare ourselves to other people? We're not against the idea of someone who's 29 years old and a top-notch education investing in this country. That's what I'm looking at. We are young people, too, but also, if we are involved in politics, we want to know what we are investing in the support we have. (President: Time. We can't vote for you, Mr. Baptizer, because there's nothing we can talk about with you. How can we vote for the Minister of Agriculture, or Minister of Business or Minister of Sport or Culture if we could not have talked to them before?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22704	Time, Mr. Jovanovic. Please, two minutes and 18 seconds. I didn't let anyone else, so I won't let you break the Rules of Procedure either. As for the answer to your question about the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly session, unfortunately, as I have said many times, neither I nor the people who participate in my political party, nor in the ruling majority that exists, have voted for such a Rules of Procedure. Such a Rules of Procedure excludes the possibility for both committees and plenary candidates to respond to MPs. I'm sorry about that. Perhaps it would be much better if it were different if the candidate for minister had the right to the tide to match the same as everyone else. However, such is the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister, or Prime Minister or Prime Minister, if it is a reconstruction, explains in his exhibition the government's programme and answers questions raised by MPs on behalf of the Government. So it's something that's been established like that. You, if you want me to break the Rules of Procedure, I really can't do it. Now, is that better, if it's politically wiser, but I suggest we all start a debate, since this is a non-productive time. So, we haven't opened the debate yet. It's after the Rules of Procedure's injuries. This reminds me of the desire to obstruct the work of the National Assembly. I'll use my business opportunities and anyone, where I recognize that it's an attempt at obstruction, give a warning. Please continue to work, sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Please continue our work and begin a session where all MPs will be able to say everything they think about the members of the Government and about the reconstruction of the Government within the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22705	Let me back you up, Mr. President. Member of maintaining order at the session. Please, it is your obligation to allow it to be made possible in accordance with the law and Rules of Procedure. Please, just move your citizens' faces against the ministers and we'll start a discussion as soon as we're committed to each other. Let's respect this home and make them feel good and know exactly where the place is and candidates for ministers and ministers. The order has to be known, it's basic jurisdiction. If there's no room, we can bring another chair. What's the problem? Please, let's begin the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22706	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22707	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you, Mr. President of the Assembly, act as if the opposition should vote for you. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure. You allow the same MP to appear several times and use one member of the Rules of Procedure. Serbia has no time to lose more. I'm tired of hearing more about how the governments were elected, because I was an MP from 2000 to 2003. In that Rules of Procedure there were such criminal measures that only one other member of the Rules of Procedure should have stood – if you report again, I will rip your ears out. This was then done by the Rules of Procedure and the work of Parliament. When in the history of parliamentaryism has it happened that every last Thursday of the month, the entire government comes to you and answers your questions? Why don't you let this session take place now and ask Dacic and Wolf and the new candidates whatever you want? How come Dacic talks in advance about ministers when the session hasn't even started yet? Mr. President, please respect the Rules of Procedure, open a session and let's hear the Prime Minister's exposés, see what this new government has to offer. Serbian citizens are now waiting by the small screens to listen to some whose past is long ago, and no one has told them about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22708	I agree essentially with you, but unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure allow one MP to report several times after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I said I'd let it happen, because I don't want there to be any misunderstanding in the protocol part, but not boundlessly. I expect that, in the next few minutes, we will end the debate under the Rules of Procedure, open the debate in principle and start talking. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22709	Articles 106 and 107. The previous speaker also did not point to a member. Mr. President, I think you violated the Rules of Procedure because in some ways we can interpret as a threat to what you said. The opposition's role is to point to shortcomings and offer solutions. We've pointed out shortcomings. You have declared your sentence, in a certain way, that we obstruct the work of the Assembly, which is not true. I know you'd like us all to keep quiet, but we can't keep quiet. We can't keep our mouths shut, first of all, because we're not afraid of you, second of all, because you make terrible mistakes every day, to which citizens already react more and more, and that's a good thing that he did. Please make sure you don't say such things to the MPs. The previous speaker says - there's something Ivica Dacic needs to say. We can't wait. For six months, Serbia has been waiting for this government of yours. Why don't you say so? You've had six months, so now it takes 16 hours to watch who's in government. That's why we begged to sit together and make a deal. You cannot declare your opinion as a general principle. Then you say there is no opposition. I don't think you'll be watching that movie after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22710	Unfortunately, I disagree with you. I would not like anyone to be silent in this House, as the Rules of Procedure also obliges MPs to speak. I think that when compared to several previous calls to this, you can see the difference in the conduct of the government towards the opposition or at least the president of the Assembly towards colleagues who are allowed and what in previous councils you couldn't even imagine. That we don't bring the stenograms from previous sessions, so we can read them in the next few days, and see what the sessions at which the entire parliamentary groups were disfellowshipped, even if the MPs weren't present at those sessions. As for fear, believe me, I'm not afraid of anyone, nor am I asking anyone to fear me, far away, nor is it anyone who ever mentioned it here. I don't think I'm anyone you should really respect in any way. What you say we start the session, I believe it's time to start the session. That's all I stood for, to stop the unproductive debate in the Rules of Procedure, but to start a debate where everyone will be able to say everything they think about the agenda, because the agenda is the choice of government members. We can't start a session while people keep reporting to the Rules of Procedure, not wanting the session to start. It will begin at a time when people who report for breach of the Rules of Procedure will no longer do so and will have the right to say everything they think about the agenda point. It's very simple. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22711	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, who knows which way you're just breaking the law in parliament and introducing chaos? It is precisely the reason that you allow certain MPs to speak without indicating which member they are advertising, and then you emotionally agree with them, and then you tell us about parliament in the previous four years, where you were not in, and in which the Honorable Ms Slavica Dejanovic, who is sitting in front of you, at the same time was much better than you, that you have no dilemma, and then you tell us that you would like there to be an opposition here in a way that you do not allow the opposition to do its opposition job. To be able to discuss the government's proposal today, it's not enough to get an exposé just five minutes early. It's not enough to read in media that are and what the successes of our future ministers who have nothing to do with public work... (President: this has nothing to do with what you've advertised. Please hold on to what you asked for as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not to have a replica of the President of the Assembly. ) The injury of the Rules of Procedure is that you have allowed chaos to be created, by having an emotional attitude toward certain MPs and not leading to the same extent as this session, or by interrupting someone, and by allowing someone to complete their speech that goes or reaches even the beginning of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22712	I've been talking about a few previous conferences. It was not, it was not the only chairman of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic as president of parliament in previous councils. So she wasn't the only one who did it. After all, this applies to all those who brutally expelled MPs, giving them dragon sentences because of a different opinion. This has not happened in this congregation majority and in this assembly, and no one has been expelled from the O.R. because of their opinion. Nobody. In the past, it's been happening. I just want to say that there are differences and that's what Serbian citizens see. After all, I suggest we go back to the agenda debate, so we can express our differences. The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22713	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. There's nothing you can do about LDP's parliamentary group from the beat. We're not going to get into these discussions, like this one with Mr. Markovic, who you encourage and help, Mr. Stefanovic. So what did you do wrong in the realization of article 27? Rules of Procedure? You said it wasn't true that the college had the right and any authority regarding the work of the National Assembly and the sessions of the National Assembly. That is not true, as the Rules of Procedure refer to the provision of Article 26. The Law on the National Assembly, which says the College is convened to coordinate work and consult on the work of the National Assembly. The College shall assist the President of the National Assembly in calling meetings, etc. You cannot take just one source of rights and interpret the Rules of Procedure within it. That's what they were trying to do, I agree, some before you were wrong. But you've made a political point. We wanted to do more work. You said it shouldn't be like that and that this session is enough. I don't blame you for anything, and I won't point to any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I think this is a question for Mr. Dacic. Mr. Dacic, once, twice, perhaps three times in your life you have the opportunity to represent the government and present the exposés. You've worked for it your whole life. The vast majority of people here will probably never, ever be able to expose us and seek support for their government. I can't understand how you didn't choose the way to give this much more seriousness, to allow us to talk to the ministers before that, to clarify the issues. I'm sure Mr. Krstic would be very in the mood to talk about it. We tried to get ready for this session. I haven't been able to read your entire exposé. We got it 45 minutes ago. I don't know if there's any rebalancing. Yesterday from television news, from some meeting of Mr Krstic with the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce, I could indirectly conclude that there might be a rebalancing. I don't think it's serious that that's how we start discussing the government's choice, and we could have done it before this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22714	Time. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22715	Article 107(1), Mr Stefanovic. I must remind you that, in addition to what you know you haven't done, it would be good to take care of what you've been doing and what you're doing right now. The fact that you have not voted in favour of the current Rules of Procedure allows you nothing and does not give you the right to point this debate, as Parliament's President, at the wrong goal. We see this debate as an opportunity to, in addition to what is clearly different from us - almost our entire political career, our biography, our programs, there's something that we have in common? You won't let us talk in a normal way, the way we talk in every other environment, because you didn't want to schedule our meeting with the ministers' candidates. Not a vote. We didn't ask for that to be said on committees. We asked for it to be spoken. Do you want to choose the government in the atmosphere in which Markovic organises local parliament sessions in Jagodina as a prologue to the baptism of the giraffe? Do you want to go out all of us, so these people take responsibility for the fates of millions? Ask them if they want to? I'm sure most of those who run for ministers today want to talk to us, tell us why they did it. We don't want to score here, reading Mr. Tasovac's tweets about most of the ruling coalition's parties. I think it's important for him to tell both us and society why he decided to take over the Ministry of Culture in a country she didn't want, which she buried? It's a gesture that deserves respect. He put his life into it. (President: Time. ) Representative who leaves sports and enters politics. Widow, that's you, you know what that is? Water polo with crocodiles, and your hands and legs are tied, and they're hungry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22716	Time, Mr. Jovanovic. Thank you. I have to tell you one more time that I didn't call in any way if I hadn't voted in favour of the Rules of Procedure by not respecting him. Unfortunately, I must respect this Rules of Procedure, which does not foresee in any way that candidates for ministers may be invited to the board's session. I repeat once again, I am not the one calling committee meetings, the board presidents are doing it. So you're misdirecting the question. The word is Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22717	Articles 107 and 105. Mr. Jovanovic, if they could have spoken to the candidates in your time, you would never have been elected. You were elected to a difficult time, which was not good for Serbian citizens at the time, and you yourself said that you had only two years of working in parliament and became deputy prime minister. What could this government expect of you at the time? You are such an irrelevant political factor for me in Serbia, I will not deal with you. I want to tell Mr. Stefanovic and answer. He said how Dacic kept his mouth shut for six months. And the sparrows on the branch know, Mr. Stefanovic, what Dacic and Vukic did in Brussels. If they hadn't done what you were doing, to accept in Brussels that the seal was writing -- customs on Kosovo, and when you come to Serbia, the citizens of Serbia rebel, and you say, "No, that doesn't apply." If that fact were true, in the evening I was called by German former Ambassador Wolfrand Mas, Mr. Petrovic and I, and he told me, those of you do not know what they are doing. For the first time, representatives of the Serbian people have said what they say in Europe to those who decide the fate of Serbian citizens, as well as to Serbian citizens. That is why these representatives and presidents and parties and governments have a good present. Just to tell you, I'm leaving Jagodina right now and it's 40 kilometers away. There has never been a greater transit of traffic through Serbia, because these people who pass through Serbia have told them in countries where they work and in countries where they were born – go through Serbia, it is the most stable, safest and safest country in Europe. That's one big fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22718	Time. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22719	Member of the 27th Chairman. I will not appeal to you to invite MPs not to report to the Rules of Procedure. It's their right to the Rules of Procedure. I'll ask them to let them keep doing it. It is good for the Serbian public to see how you behave and what part of the opposition does. It is good that our distinguished guests at the gallery see how they behave and what part of the opposition in Serbia does, that it does not allow us to work and choose the government, to obstruct the work in the Assembly. It is good to see our partners in the EU who are calling for European values behave in parliament. I think you should let them all show their true face. Please don't invite them to do this anymore, let them report to the Rules of Procedure to further obstruct this work. Otherwise, with regard to the invitation of the candidate for ministers and the establishment of a new parliamentary practice in the Assembly, they did not have to be called on committees as well. I am convinced that any of the candidates would have invited them to any of the MPs' clubs for a conversation before they were elected, would have come to that conversation. That would be serious. He could have invited them to come to the Assembly's rooms to discuss their programme and certainly that would have happened, but since they're not obvious that the goal has been, at all times, just some co-op attacks on you as chairman and for obstructing the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22720	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22721	Mr. President, we are not the opposition, so we are therefore obliged to oppose everything the government proposes, but we are the opposition that is obliged to take care of elementary reason and order. Of course, there's no insult that a person, who normally doesn't answer for his actions, can say here and provoke us, but it's not good for you as someone who runs this session to tolerate what we're all exposed to, because of a reasonable proposal. Mr. Markovic, you had no problem with my authority at the time. You want me to remind you of those confessions about that popular singer of ours that you don't know if she's shooting platinum plates, or if she's the mother of Serbia. I didn't ask for your support then, nor do I need it today, but you can't expect us to be here after a year, during which you've worked exclusively and only what you've been insulting us since we existed, we've been treating you here like those committees or the poor people you've given charity to by destroying them with your own policy. You insult your ministers, not us. You do not have to allow a normal 30- or 40-minute conversation on the board where all MPs should sit, not representatives of one parliamentary group. If we had called these people seven days ago, no one would have believed they were ministers, they'd think we were joking with them. They didn't know it then either. What did Mr. Radulovic write when he heard that Mr. Krstic was a candidate for the finance minister? These are the topics we need to discuss. The government is a team. If the first and second man of the government or two of its leaders don't leave the impression of people who are capable of doing teamwork, maybe this is an opportunity to talk to everyone about it and see if we're going to get a government that's definitely divided into trenches or a government that's aware of what's been bad and good in the past year, and then it's well further affirmative, and it changes badly. (President: Time. If you stop the insult of those of us who came here in the best interest and who are persistent in defending the principles that are the postulate of democracy, which is to respect reason. Democracy has no sense. It's not reasonable for someone to vote, that you can't talk to him and you don't know anything about him. All right, then. Stop these baseball bats of yours and the debate will continue in a normal way within the frameworks that you have defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22722	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22723	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(1). The only thing we could do at midnight was arrange a meeting with the ministers' candidates, Mr. Stefanovic, and you say it's okay. You're saying it's okay and we don't have the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If we happen to report and indicate the injuries you are constantly doing, you will give us warnings and threats. I can only ask you if you really think that it will stop us in our intention to show Serbia what you're doing. Stefanovic, if we were afraid of you and if the DS were afraid of you, Mr. Vukic would still be Minister of Information. This would be 14 years in a row. If we were afraid of you, Markovic would still be the commander of the Arkan Tigers or the first deputy commander. This famous inspiration of Mr Markovic, who constantly assists you in leading the National Assembly, does not surprise me, given that around 30 million people in Jagodina are approved from the budget today. I think you should ask yourself a little bit about the way you address the MPs in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22724	I understand all the political reasons why MPs appear. That's what I support. As you have seen, in the Rules of Procedure, it has been brought into the previous assembly to enable the President of the National Assembly to, when MPs in an obvious way are obstructing the work of the National Assembly, express certain disciplinary measures. Don't be afraid. I won't, like in those councils where the MPs were kicked out, kick people out of parliament. It was done at other times. It was done by some other majority. As president of the assembly, I will not do it as long as I chair. I will never give a measure of disfellowshipping from the hall of any member of the Parliament. I can't think of anything. We'll continue to run this session normally. I'll open the session and give the word, of course, to anyone who wants a word. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening an investigation into the motion for candidates for members of the government. The People's MP Petar Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22725	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers' Candidates, I am advocating Article 27(2) and Article 107(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please, Mr. President, bring this assembly into order at last. Secondly, to apply Article 107, which I refer to, point 2. No direct contact with another Member is allowed. I pray that some of us here do not teach me a lesson about democracy, about how to work in the National Assembly. I've been an MP in this National Assembly for a long time. Believe me, in 2001, when some candidates were proposed for ministers in the then government, when I first saw, heard and read their biography, I was baptized with both my left and my right hand. Unfortunately, I couldn't cross my leg because I wasn't so young that I could. At that time, candidates were not asked to explain where they came from, what they ended up with, etc. At that time, some students who had not been able to graduate from college for more than 10 years had come to high office, but then, very quickly, they graduated from college and quickly became holders of very responsible functions in the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia. It was democracy back then. That's when it could've been done. Today, we ask the world's experts to explain on board what and how it should be done. By the way, don't mention Jagodina. It should be seen and seen throughout Serbia. Those who have failed to remain in power, do not behave like that little Kalimera in cartoons, which is no longer shown, and to shout for all “this is injustice, it is injustice. ” You expose that injustice to the elections when they are, so you will see how many votes you will get, and in Jagodina you will get even less than you have now. Just so you know how and what is done where politics is led by Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma, president of Unity of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22726	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103, paragraphs 2, 4 and 7. Mr. President, you've just opened a session and you've allowed the advertising of the Rules of Procedure and I think it's the 107th. Paragraph 2 of this Article 103 states that the MP cannot point to a violation of the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. Mr. President, you insist on allowing the opposition's MPs mostly. I understand your tolerance, and everything should have its own measure. Item 4. The People's Messenger is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured. So this was already pointed out by Mr. Sutanovac, but he also forgot to list a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured. You have also injured a 107 member who obliges you as president of the National Assembly, literally writes – that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to impose on a national MP who does not adhere to the provisions laid down in paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 6, and I have advertised Article 2 and 4, or in another obvious way abuses the rights provided for by this article, lays down the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. You didn't do it. I am also advocating the second part of Item 7 where, in the case I have already stated, the time that a member of the parliamentary group has been misusing under the Rules of Procedure, you should deny that parliamentary group in relation to the current agenda point, that is, Article 103, paragraph 7. So, I support that you've been tolerated so far, but they're not advertising the Rules of Procedure at all, they're talking about the government... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... about the work of the future government. Thank you. Now it's clear to me, from what the former government is saying, we're like citizens and how well it went by who ran the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22728	Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22729	Article 107. Rules of Procedure. You let them talk about different things. You caused it yourself. I don't understand how you so much need to get us back into the past, and to pull those parallels with the past. We're not pulling the parallels. But if you're opening the topic of how someone was punishing in the Assembly, then you must also say why these penalties were imposed, and what they looked like to the MPs' benches, and whether the microphones had been ripped off, and poured water. I don't think any of us should be coming back at that time, and I don't think there should be any punishment, but I don't think you're proud of what yours are, perhaps not you personally, but your political predecessors at the time worked. That's how I realized these 25 years of our bad past that Mr. Wolfie was talking about. That's why I'm worried that you're pulling the line on 2000 or 2001. Too many wrong things have been in the past 25 years or maybe 50 and 70 years. We tried our proposals to introduce a new practice, but this is a political matter. I don't mind if the ruling majority decided that these candidates for ministers, among whom there are great people, are defending themselves in this way, and that they are actually insulting people called Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic, Dragan Šormaz, Marijan Risticevic, we understand silence and not calling for a coup, I think it's a great pity for them. We're not going down to that level.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22730	By the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22731	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers' candidates, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, were violated in Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure. Obstruction is a legitimate political term. The price of such an expression and such political behaviour, any political option that such an act is accepted, will have to pay in the elections. Serbian citizens ask this parliament for answers from the highest legislative body, ask for better laws, seek a better life, not a stop. Don't think it's any threat, it's not a threat. As someone decides to obstruct, and it was during the very period when you were bothered that the reconstruction took so long, they will have to explain it to their voters, they will have to explain it to the citizens of Serbia. Don't take it as a threat, but the path of Serbia's reform, the citizens of Serbia won't stop it. After all, this book is called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This book is sacred. We didn't write it, but we respect it. This book defines the rules of conduct, from 119 to 121, are members of the Rules of Procedure which define a special session such as this, called within the deadlines defined by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, respected by law. Are you, gentlemen, inviting us not to respect the law? The time has passed in Serbia when laws were not respected, passed without respecting them. The SNS wants to respect the laws, even those that we do not like and those that were passed in the previous period, the laws must be respected. Laws will not be passed for politicians. Laws are passed for all citizens. We need to respect the law, we need to respect the Rules of Procedure, and please, President, we need to introduce this session into normal flows and start talking about the exposé and the programme of the future government of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22732	Are any of the reported MPs reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22733	Article 107, Mr. President. I suppose you understand that this is not the way you can put parliament in a situation where we agree to suffer insults. We don't need anyone to draw attention to the respect of the Rules of Procedure or the law. We've been doing it here in the Assembly for a year, Mr. Stefanovic. I ask you - why you tolerate the appearances of MPs in which our calls to the Rules of Procedure, which you accept, I suppose because they are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Advertising, are treated as lawlessness. It's not lawlessness. It's the right defined here in parliament. The lawlessness is greening. It's lawlessness. The lawlessness is a vote for the Law on Public Enterprises, after the appointment of party directors 15 minutes before it enters into force or trampling the law months later. If you think that's my lonely attitude, there's a candidate for a minister who thinks the same thing, as we all think here from the LDP. If you want order, get your actions in order. We're doing great on one plan and another, and I guess that's what the president of your party explained to you after Monday's debate. We want to talk seriously today. A prerequisite for a serious relationship is the ability to communicate with people. Should we once again say from our parliamentary group that we appreciate anyone who takes responsibility and enters the government at this time? That's what we told those who weren't in government today a year ago. But it is also very important to get an answer to the question – are they aware of these responsibilities and how they think they solve a whole series of problems, what is their view of it? (President: Mr. Jovanovic, two minutes. ) There is no debate based on Dacic's exposé of ministers. One word he didn't say about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22734	Thank you. Does the promoter, Mr. Ivica Dacic, the Prime Minister want a word? The replica is only after a member of the government. A member of the government when he calls, he gets his word on the Rules of Procedure. The only violation of the Rules of Procedure is before that. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22735	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable National Assembly President, the respected citizens of Serbia, were elected 13 months ago by the government of the Republic of Serbia. On this occasion, we said that we wanted to work on the future of our country and our people, to build, together with citizens and their communities, organisations and institutions and the professional public, an integrated vision of Serbia's future and to step forward towards that future. I then said that this government of the Republic of Serbia would be a government for the future, not a government facing the past. Progress is not a mere correction of past mistakes, but an uninterrupted movement towards the future. That is why we have decided ourselves, without pressure from the opposition, to enter the broadest and most fundamental reconstruction of a single government in Serbia's parliamentary history. We did it because we have no right to be satisfied and because we have no right to forget that just constantly changing, constantly correcting, constantly improving, the only way to the goal that this country and its people deserve. The goal is a more modern, fairer, more efficient, more orderly, democratic, respected, secure and richer Serbia. The main objective of the government's reconstruction is precisely the new tasks that we have set before the government, to speed up Serbia, to change it, not to keep Serbia hostage to inter-party conflicts and to divide the authorities. That is why among 11 new members of the government are more than half of the non-partisan personalities. I know that Serbia needs everything today and that it needs it now. Serbia has gone through a historic crisis in which our national and state interests have been questioned, faced with the collapse of our former common state, wars, the violent secession of the work of our territory, the double standards of the international community, with economic poverty and the loss of every perspective. The gross social product today is only 65% of the 1989 gross social product. Serbia no longer has time to wait. Serbia must no longer allow itself to be a country of failed expectations and missed opportunities, which continues to wage battles of lost wars. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a small country for so much injustice and defeat we celebrate. And we don't need more victims than we already have. That's why Serbia has to play to win now. In the past year, this government has managed, in extremely difficult international circumstances, without almost any ally in the West, to take the most likely and large steps forward. We started negotiating with Pristina, opening a whole new chapter for members of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. A chapter that will allow them to be internationally recognised and accepted as a political entity whose voice is respected, respected, but which will at the same time protect them and enable them to live a normal life, without fear of any domination and violent separation from Serbia. On this Vidovdan, the European Council decided to start negotiations on the accession and membership of the Republic of Serbia to the EU without additional conditions, thus achieving a decades-long goal. Getting a date for starting negotiations with the EU is nothing more than just an introduction, the first minute and the first step of that great journey we are taking. That's why it's important and the way we did it. The fundamental difference of this government, which has succeeded, and of all the other governments that may have wanted or not wanted, is exactly that way. Since the beginning of the formation of this government, we have been aware that we will not come to the results in great words or great desires, but only with great work. This government has done more than any other thing to make this day happen. More importantly, this government has never lied to anyone in Serbia or the world for a moment. We had a goal, we had nothing to hide. We did everything we said we'd do. At the end, apart from the date, we got something else – we admitted to reliable partners. We had allies, we also had respect for honesty, effort and finally – for impact. Serbia, respected citizens, ladies and gentlemen, is now recognised as a country with a word and which is believed in the word. Now for this government, for every citizen of Serbia, there is a more difficult and important part. Europe is at the door, but it is not yet in Serbia. Negotiations ahead are a way for her to enter Serbia. We ourselves, our work, our dedication and our progress are the way to keep her here. As much as we are able to be Europe, so will Europe be here. In every Serbian village, in every head and that as a system of values, as a set of rules, laws, institutions built. It's the next priority of this government. That's the goal we have to achieve. The difficult economic and social situation is one of our most difficult and major problems. Economic recovery is a national priority, as all other key objectives of this government will depend on whether we are able to ensure the country's economic survival. Serbia must have a clear plan for a financial and economic policy measure over the next three years and a clear economic development strategy. The country's economic collapse must be stopped. From 2008 to the end of 2012, gross social product fell at an average rate of 0.5% per year. Almost the entire economy is in pre-bank or bankruptcy, with liquidity shortages, unbearablely high interest rates and more than 30% of non-payments from the economy. Almost all of the economy is in pre-bank or bankruptcy, with liquidity shortages, insufferably high interest rates, and more than % of non-payments from the economy. During this same period, the unemployment rate rose from 14% to around 24%, and the level of wages and pensions stagnated. The level of the grey economy is estimated to reach up to 30% compared to 15% to 20% in the European Union countries, leading to the avoidance of tax obligations at all levels. Budget deficit consolidated budget, though smaller than before, is still high. Public debt has come to the limits of sustainability and endurance, about nine billion euros in debt from Serbia since 2008, largely not used for development needs, but for "supply" in public finances. Economic activity is mainly based on public enterprises and state administration, almost 60%, or trade, financial and other services. We lack production, there is a real sector missing, so today we are again facing the challenges of re-industrization that must ensure optimal restructuring of our economy. Of course, positive shifts have been made when it comes to economics. Exports have reached the largest share in the gross social product so far, gone about 29%. Inflation is under control, dinar course is stabilized. For example, the course today seems to me to be around 114 dinars for the euro, and when I endured exposures during the government's election 13 months ago, the course was between 117 and 118 dinars, which is almost an unrecorded example in our decades-old history, because after a year, the course is less than at the beginning. In recent months, foreign investors and good business projects such as JAT and Etyhada have increased their interest. Serbia's new vision must now be based on four key assumptions. First, the universal minimum of social protection as a sign of a solidarity society, i.e. as the security that no one will be left behind. Second, consolidated public finances based on a new tax policy, i.e. the responsible state and responsible citizens. This implies that there is a need for a stimulating fiscal policy that shifts the emphasis from labour to property, profit and to the extent necessary, consumption, with a gradual but responsible reduction of the state share in the economy and zero tolerance for non-compliance with the law, economic crime and corruption through reformed system institutions. Thirdly, corporateisation of the economy, i.e. treat the state as its own. Social policy needs to be thrown out of public enterprises, as the only objective of a company's economy is profit. The privatisation process should be completed for 179 companies in restructuring. Responsible corporate governance should be introduced in the state administration and state-controlled enterprises, including in particular those passing through bankruptcy or restructuring proceedings. It is necessary to stimulate and actively attract foreign direct investment and professional management. State interventions in the economy should be channelled and focused on capital projects that contribute to the growth of gross social product. Fourthly, there should be meaningful regulation, i.e. that and only what makes sense. All this involves changing the Law on Planning and Construction, amending the Law on Banking and the Law on Privatisation, aggressive guillotine regulations and electronic administration wherever possible. In all this, it is very important to establish an open dialogue with the economy, associations, trade unions, professional public, scientific circles and representatives of international institutions. The measures to be proposed must be short-term, for the next six months, medium-term by the end of next year, and within a long time for the next five to 10 years. It is very important to reform the capacity building of the key bodies of the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration and inspection services, the Treasury, public procurement systems, customs administrations. It is necessary to amend and supplement a set of laws governing the financial system, for example. Foreign exchange law. There must be transparency in all direct and indirect users of the budget. It is necessary to start a public debate and reform of the pension and disability insurance system, with respect to the continuity of the rights achieved. It is also necessary to implement public administration and public sector reform. This government will be committed to creating a special environment that will provide our businesses with similar conditions, if not better working conditions than the countries in our environment. Here, above all, I mean a stable national currency, a more favourable price of capital, a more efficient administrative procedure, an incentive for exporters and subsidies to agriculture. The government will also create conditions for a favourable investment climate for foreign investors, guaranteeing them legal certainty and better conditions for investment than in other similar countries. The role of the state in this period must be how the most painless people survive the economic crisis. I see the role of the state as a need to help citizens and businesses and all others in need. Serbia's economic development strategy should be based on what Serbia has and what is our comparative assumption. These are, above all, agriculture and food industries, energy and infrastructure, as well as the automotive industry, information technologies. These are the branches to start a new investment cycle. The dilemma of development or saving is a false question, because we need both. The only solution is to reduce irrational consumption, reduce bureaucracy and eliminate unnecessary costs of the state, and on the other hand to increase investment consumption, in order to stimulate development and increase employment, with social responsibility for protecting the most vulnerable layers of the population. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia will continue its vigorous fight against crime and corruption. During the period from August 1st last year, that is, when a new government was formed by July 31st this year, 27 KT cases were formed for 236 persons, as perpetrator of criminal offences from the prosecution's jurisdiction for organised crime. 117 people were also charged after the investigation was completed, and other investigations are ongoing. Of these 117 indictments filed in criminal proceedings following August 1st last year, i.e. after the formation of this government, 113 has been confirmed. Another 63 indictments have been filed following investigations carried out during the earlier period, making up a total of 180 indictees in 18 criminal cases. During this period, the first-degree verdicts against 254 people, 204 of whom are convicted. It is a firm determination by the government of the Republic of Serbia that there is no rebirth of Serbia without success in fighting crime and corruption. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that today's election of new members of the government is on the agenda, I would like to point out that in other areas we expect bigger steps forward. To make Serbia progress faster, all parts of Serbia need equal chances, so it is important to pay particular attention to the reduction of regional differences, in order to improve regional development. Education, science and culture are the foundation of every society, which is why it is important to keep working on reforms and to increase their participation in the budget, because they are not cost, but investment in Serbia's future. Transport corridors through Serbia are a prerequisite for economic development. Sport is Serbia's best and most effective diplomacy. That is why Serbia's government faces new serious challenges. The path that lies before us and travels on it will determine only one factor, the result we achieve. That result is why this government exists. That's why the results we've achieved haven't and won't be an alibi for this government's work. On the contrary, the launch of EU membership negotiations and Serbia's more favourable international position are the reason why we should look at what we can do even better. It is, simply, the inevitable, the consequence and the good, our altered consciousness and willingness to give a good result, the moment we achieve it, we replace the new goal. This new goal is a different Serbia, changed engineering in which the overall system works, a policy without a mask. This new goal is to create new jobs and start a long-stopped economy, increase standards and regulate absolutely all social areas, from economy to culture. The government's basic objective of reconstruction is precisely these new goals and tasks, which are fatal to Serbia's future. Many politicians have used the Syntagma of historical time and moment, often adding themselves to historical events. But Serbia is indeed at a turning point today. We need, not small, but large steps to avoid becoming or remain amputated, inflamed "blind hose" of the modern world. That is why we need the production of results, a long-term effective policy that can predict and take risks and responsibility. This government will only be good if it is successful, so it is not a priority party interest. That is why the government's reconstruction came from the criteria of expertise, not party membership. Dear Members of the People, Honored President of the National Assembly, Honored Citizens of Serbia, I propose the following candidates for the new members of the Government of Serbia: -- Finance Minister Lazar Krstic, Defence Minister Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Rodic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government Igor Mirovic, Minister of Transport Saša Radulovic, Minister of Transport Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Prof. Dr. Dragan Glamočić, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Prof. Dr. Tomislav Jovanovic, Minister of Culture and Information Ivan Tasovac, Minister of Youth and Sports Vanja Udovic, Ministers without portfolio Aleksandar Vulin and Branko Ruzic. Aleksandar Vulin will be in charge of Kosovo and Metohija, and Branko Ruzic will be in charge of European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the current members of the government for their co-operation in the performance of responsible government duties. Allow me before I finish, although it's not part of my exposé, since I had no right to report at the beginning until this session begins, let me also say two or three days of political sentences that don't deserve to be in the exposé. You know what, we know each other. I've been with you for 23 years. I'd understand if you weren't asking us now for something that you'd never let do. Last time you didn't mind having an exposé that you'd never shared before, you got it now. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from the place: It is not true, I will answer you. What? What did you say, what wasn't true because you got exposés? Wait, please, when I chose your government, you shared the exposés during the Prime Minister's speech. Secondly, let me tell you, when did you represent the Minister's candidates? What are you talking about? When? Why didn't you introduce yourself when Zoran Djindjic was prime minister? Why didn't you introduce yourself to the MPs? Why didn't you introduce yourself when Kostunica chose the government? Why didn't you introduce yourself when Kostunica and Tadic chose the government? You're talking about the night government, so how are you not ashamed of Mr. Sutanovac? You were elected in two minutes until midnight, when I asked Tom Nikolic to interrupt the discussion so that you and Kostunica could make a government, so it wouldn't go to an extraordinary parliamentary election, because that's how it is? This is all a show. You're talking about, you have the right to talk, you're talking about the essence, you're talking about the essence of the policy being conducted. These are questions, I'm not contesting the right that everyone has to resent, he loves to be in parliament, I've been here for 23 years. What, you don't think you're going to win the controversy? I'd like this debate to last five days, you'll lose everything, why? Because all the arguments of your policy so far have fallen into the water, because you have nothing more to blame this government for, because we have achieved what you couldn't or didn't want. What, did you not lead a more European policy than this government? What's your political program now? What do you have against this government? As fast as it goes to the EU, right? Then join the DSS. What do you blame, what reforms are yet to be implemented? It is not disputed, this is an opportunity for Serbia to change and turn, but every change, you know, and every opposition means that something, to reach some consensus. As Prime Minister, I am absolutely ready to talk to each of you about what needs to be done to make Serbia better. There are parliamentary presidents here. Predrag Markovic was the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dragoljub Micunovic was the president of the Federal Assembly in the same hall, Natasa Micic was Parliament Speaker, Gordana Komic, etc. You've been running Parliament sessions, please just, if you're already writing some acts, then act like Nikola Pasic when he did it before who knows how many years ago, write them so that it suits you and when you're in opposition, and not when you're in power, then it suits you. You made us vote for this Rules of Procedure, you admit you were wrong. Let me tell you, let's turn to the future of Serbia, because we can talk about the past whatever we want, the past that we can't change, and maybe we can still, and that's why it's my call for everyone to realize that these are difficult times. We will continue to have a difficult period, a complicated international situation, a fight for a fair solution to the Kosovo issue, a stop to the economic sunflower and a fight for every new job. No one can promise to solve all the problems that have been accumulated in Serbia and Serbia for decades, but I, as Prime Minister, as well as 13 months ago and throughout the government, promise that Serbia, Serbia's citizens, will have more justice, a state that helps them and a decisive, responsible, efficient and professional government that helps them and will share the fate of the people. They will have a government that will restore faith in Serbia because we and we all believe in Serbia, so I invite you ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament to support the election of new members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22736	Replica Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22737	I'm reporting from a replica, practically by a candidate for prime minister and MP... Mr. Tasovac, it's not cultural behavior, there are stairs coming down. You know how, when the Prime Minister mentions you, and you're not a candidate for the minister, it gives you a special honor. As you said, Mr. Dacic, we know each other. I'll remind you that once we spoke at the government whether double salaries should be denied to those who work in Thaci's government, you said – we must not do so now. The courage you now show here, supported by the SNS, you didn't have four, three, two or one years ago. After all, the government received more support than it had in 2008 when it was formed, and you, G17 plus and other parties that are now left alone in power received less than DS alone. When you talk about the time of 2008, 2009, 2010, you must be aware that you were the strongest political figure in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the only president of the party and deputy prime minister. If you do not respect that time, I ask your fellow Members to respect them, to respect at least the work of this Parliament in which they participated and where the president was from your ranks. I didn't expect you to be in the exposé in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, etc., even less, I won't say that you're false because someone prepared you for the truth. On July 15th last year before the government formed, the course was 115 dinars. Three days after the government formed, the course went to 117 point something. So you didn't bring it down from 115 to 114, but on the contrary. On July 15th, it was exactly 115.4 dinars. Check it out, whoever gave it to you was wrong. (President: Time. I'm entitled to two replicas or I'm going to... (President: No, you have the right to one replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, no one is entitled to two, you can call again. I was mentioned by a gentleman... (President: You have the right to report twice, but in one replica you can use two minutes. ) Consider that I answered again. (President: There are other MPs who came forward after your first application, so you are not in order, such is the Rules of Procedure. Well, it suits me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22738	After the conditions have been met, I propose to establish my mandate to the MPs in the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with the decision of the Republic Election Commission of Members of Parliament to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative - Budgetary and Budgetary - Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Milutin Mrkonjic and Srdjan Dragojevic, elected from Ivica Dačić – SPS, PUPS, JS. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative - Budgetary and Delegated - Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Milutin Mrkonjic and Srdjan Dragojevic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the national envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! “ I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work during this term of office. Congratulations. The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22739	Mr. Sutanovac understood that I was talking about 2008 as the year of power of the previous government. I was talking here about economic parameters concerning the time when the economic crisis began. It's only about that, not about the desire to make some parallel to the previous government. As you know, an economic crisis has already started since 2008, and all economic parameters have been down. I absolutely agree with you and I share, just like all of you, part of the responsibility for your political work in the previous period and it is not disputed. That was also sanctioned in the election. True, I've got more votes than before the government, you've got less than before the government. But anyway, you didn't answer one question that I directly told you -- were you elected two minutes before midnight? Was it the night government? Was that the Dark Government? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: You will be too) We won't, Mr. Stefanovic, because we have no idea we're choosing at midnight. I love to last more days. I don't know what you're looking forward to sitting down or, I don't know, looking for choices, and you're praying to God that elections don't come. So, as far as that goes, go ahead, say what's wrong, and don't talk about anything now. If you think that was right, why didn't you do it while you were in power? Now shut up. I'm not threatening anyone because I have no reason to threaten. I haven't been here since yesterday. I've been here, like Mr. Micunovic, since the start of the multi-party system in Serbia. You're talking about some people we don't know? Yes, Mr. Stefanovic, you knew Mr. Djelic when he arrived in 2000? You knew Radovan Jelasic, whom did you first have to give citizenship to enter the government? Did you know every minister you brought in? Don't worry about it, because I see you guys talking about it all the time. There was a debate the other day whose government this was – is it Vuceva, mine. This is the Serbian government. Serbian citizens, according to all the surveys, trust the government most in the last 10, 15, 20 years. That's true. That's why I believe in Serbia, because I think this is a historic moment for Serbia, to do something together. Besides, Mr. Stefanovic, why do all your experts from your party want to work in this government? We don't have enough room for your experts. Why are your DS experts running for some of the functions we're about to choose? Why don't you think about it? I don't see you as political enemies, I see you as opponents, I just don't know how you fight – whether there will be a 15-minute or half-hour division before, whether there will be a hearing of these ministers on committees before. These are the things we should have talked about when we wrote the Rules of Procedure. It never was. It has never been in Serbia in the last 23 years. Why do you insist on it now? Do you have any more serious arguments, or are we gonna stick to it? So, Mr. Sutanovac, don't answer me about the darkness. I was asked by your party and the DSS to intercede between you and the SRS. I personally convinced Tomislav Nikolic to stop the discussion so you could be chosen. That was two minutes before midnight. Seems to me like it's past midnight, but you faked it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22740	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22741	Mr. Stefanovic, Article 107. We're not impressed by the Prime Minister. There's no reason for you to act like one. What's it like talking to the Prime Minister over our shoulders here while we're sitting in the assembly? The mention of whether someone divided the exposé or not, so it did, divided it 12 years ago. I've shared that exposé with the MPs, but I guess that's not the subject today. You weren't an MP at all in that assembly. Mr. Dacic, something else you need to tell us here - why do you propose these people to be ministers? What's qualified all these people? Most of them are the first we've seen. The other government presidents did it. It's been talking about this for days. We're not asking to have conversations with Mr. Mirovic. We know each other politically enough. I'll tell you why it's important. You're boasting about the course of the dinar. We are interested in what the Minister of Economy thinks, will be elected today or tomorrow that course is the biggest obstacle to exports to this country. What does the finance minister think about that? What does Mr. Krkobic think of tightening the belt that's being spoken of? You're repeating the phrases from the exposé a year ago. How are you gonna do that? How are you going to establish order in sports? One day you propose to privatise "Star" and "Partizana", and then, when cooked there in the stands, which is mostly your ringleader, you say – don't ask me for sport. Here's the sports minister. He's supposed to be answering his sports problems tomorrow. How's he gonna do that? Is there a program? Does he need backup, help? That's why we asked to talk to all these people, because we can't have a conversation with them right now, and you don't think you're wasting your time on it and you're doing more on your missionary work between Tadic and Kostunica, and if you didn't make it, Serbia would have been better.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22742	National MP Janko Veselinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22743	Dear Chairman, Articles 87, 106 and 107. We have already pointed out the fact that today’s session began in the weather, that meetings of the National Assembly are held from 10 to 18 hours, and that there must be a special reason for them to be held at another time. Well, it's pretty much your idea to go to this session in the weather, in the night, but worse than that, it's the fact that you're letting the Prime Minister act like a reality show that's going around this time around.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22744	Mr. Veselinović, don't insult me. This is the National Assembly. I'll give you a warning measure if you continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22745	I was just about to say that the Prime Minister insulted the MPs. He can't tell the MP that he should be ashamed. That way, the prime minister must not treat the MPs. You are required to protect the people's messengers and the reputation of the National Assembly. If you allow the prime minister to speak to the MPs in this way, we will feel that you do not want to discuss the real issue. We're the opposition here for you, not the former government, and that's how you look at us. So, it's not about how Dragan Sutanovac was elected ten years ago or not knowing how many years ago, but how you chose your ministers, how you explained to us who your ministers were doing anything so far in their professional career, and we want to talk about the fact of what you've been doing for the past 12 months. Don't take us back 10, 15 or 30 years. Please chair to ensure the respect of the Rules of Procedure, above all by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22746	Let me just ask Mr. Markovic on the basis of the announcement, if he's the Rules of Procedure. No, it's not. Then Mr. Dacic will go first. Just to respond to Mr. Veselinovic's sentence, I have to repeat the session isn't really scheduled for the night, it's scheduled for 3:00, it's a very decent time, and now it's five o'clock in the afternoon and it's not night. So we're discussing the subject during the day, not during the night. I'm asking for the citizens of Serbia to know. Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22747	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start by recommending that tonight's session lasts until eight or nine o'clock and tomorrow to continue at 10.00 hours, to work normally. It doesn't occur to us to choose, like they did at midnight. On the other hand, I didn't ask Mr. Sutanovec, I didn't say anything ugly, I just asked him if he was embarrassed because before that he said that this government would be elected in the dark, at midnight, etc. But, well, I may have replaced it, but there are other ministers. I'll take a look at the stenogram, but I thought you said so. But since we've known each other for a long time, and we all know each other, don't bring in evil blood now, in the sense that we can't compromise right now. We can move freely. The controversy is the basis of every policy. That's why we're here in Parliament. What do you think now? You've been natural to me for ten years, what Milosevic did, and we can't go back three years now. Well, you just mentioned Alexander Vukic, as Minister of Information. So how many years ago was that? Please don't ask for something for yourself that you don't give to others, but you're absolutely right, I'm not interested in going back in the past at all. That's why I'm here, and I'd like you to throw what you're throwing, come out here and say it. I don't mind. I've always made it clear everything I have to say. I have to do it again, I enjoy Parliament, it's the best institution in Serbia, because there's no lying and cheating here, how much you're capable of plowing and winning. I invite each of you to the controversy. Anyone at the hearing, if you're any better, show yourself. And whether it's gonna be ten minutes, fifteen, sooner, or whether there's gonna be any committees sooner or later, I've been involved in the formation of almost all governments, except Djindjic. All governments since 1990. So, I'm not an adequate person to give me lessons and salt my mind. You can tell that to someone, here's Srdjan Dragojevic, so he can make movies on that subject, but we all know how it worked. Until the last minute, you didn't know who was going to make a government with or with who. Do you know in the 1990s, the SPO came to the session, thinking maybe the government would be with them, and Milosevic made the government with Seselj. Is that what it was, overnight? Anyway, you don't have, what you said yourself, the biographies of all the candidates for ministers have been delivered. You have biographies, no one wanted to hide anything from all of you, but I didn't feel the need to be in an exposé, because it never was, no one explained the biography of candidates. But, well, if you have something to object to, go ahead. Free, I don't know, maybe in some of your discussions you're expressing anger, which some have accepted. I didn't ask Mr. Tasovac for anyone he voted for, whether he voted at all, whether he was a member of the political party, or who he would vote for, etc. Vanja Udovici, too. I'm talking about other people here in this government, I mean at least seven people, who are not members of any party. Once again, if you want to discuss this, there is a clear procedure, let's agree on how this will be done in the future and move on to a fundamental debate. We're ready. Here we are. As you know, I've always come to your invitation here to Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22748	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22749	Mr President, Article 116. The Rules of Procedure also oblige other participants in the debate, in this case the prime minister to adhere to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, to respect dignity. I would believe Mr Dacic if I knew it was about coming to parliament, but I do mind that we watched this game almost the same formula almost every last Thursday of the month. Understand once Mr. Dacic, that there are a few of us younger ones, so that these black-and-white movies from this time or that time aren't the most attractive of us, that we might want to do it in a different way. Do not insult parliament when you say – you would like the discussion or the debate to last five hours or five days. You said five days. I would believe you that your MPs, whose president, at the beginning of this session, when there was an LDP proposal to extend the time for discussion, voted for the proposal. You did not support it, or your MPs, other ruling parties, and now you are telling us about how you are looking forward and how much you would like the debate to last for days. You're not looking forward to it because you didn't make it possible. Otherwise, we wouldn't have mentioned all these other problems that occurred in preparation for this session. Why was it important for us to talk to the ministers? Because you say - there will be a debate on pension fund reform. I know Mr. Krstic will, but I also know that Mr. Krkobic will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22750	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22751	Mr Dacic, I do not think it has been recorded so far in modern parliamentaryism that the prime minister is presenting his exposés with such an exposé from the last time, so to speak, filled with phrases, empty spaces and sentences like that – if this government thinks it is successful, it will be good or vice versa. I don't know if you're aware at all, even though I appreciate it, and I know that you like to come to the Assembly, to love the political parliamentary challenge, are you aware that at those times when you don't like something you hear from the opposition, you don't need to answer that tone and in that way. That nervousness and that ground floor that always gives out of you, and then the next sentence calms down is one of the tactics repeatedly seen. Like calling on old times, where you were an active participant everywhere. Believe me, Mr. Dacic, it's mixed with floscules, untrues, with the fact that you don't know your future ministers, that a young candidate, Mr. Krstic, is looking a little panickedly for Mr. Vukic, to explain to him whether Mr. Markovic is in your coalition or not. That's unfortunately true. I didn't need to know these people, but Zoran Djindjic knew them when he called them to the government. You don't know these people. We are honored that many DS experts want to help Serbia and will do so in the future. We have experts, Mr. Dacic. Ask yourself if you have them. Not in the party, but in this government. What's for sure is that one thing that's made you especially nervous, that's what I'm saying, when you've been talking all the time, for the tenth time, why are you gentlemen looking for choices and asking you for God's help not to be. That's what Mr. Wolfe often uses as an exact term from psychoanalysis. It's an auto projection, Mr. Dacic. You're projecting, you're praying to God there's no election, but, I must add, you're begging some more so there's no choice. But it won't help you, Mr. Dacic. You're nervous because your fallen government has no results. Please, be honest and tell everyone, in front of the SPS who's the only one applauding you here, tell us who these are, in what fields of great progress you've been talking about and tell us where you've been doing so great and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22752	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22753	Thank you. When I answered, there was a clear basis. I don't want a misread, as I hope no one wants to, and that someone accidentally doesn't get the prime minister wrong. Mr. Dacic, you've positively pointed out the data on this. Is that right? Thank you. In comparison, I don't want to take up time. Various parties need to fight politically. I'm only interested in state and jurisdiction, and as I can confirm, not only from the seat of the National Assembly president, but also from the place of candidate for the government that will be reconstructed, that never the citizens who are candidates have gone and gone before the committees, unless someone individually invites them to explain theirs. Please, at least for me, I don't care if I'm an MP, whether I'm in power or not, I'm acting the same way. That's what Mr. Dacic wanted you to confirm. I suppose Mr. Wolfie can do it, too. Thank you. Same now, I just don't want to, because I want a really decent Serbia. Let these politicians fight as much as they want, but people have to naked eyes to see what's the order, and that's why I intervened at the beginning. I know, I asked Mr. Djelic to cross last time, since he was already a minister, to get away, because he sat in a place where not the ministers were sitting, but the citizens who are getting ready, and I hope he won't give up while this debate is going, that this will not be depressing, but that he will remain candidates. I was just asking that we do everything we can for the dignity of the congregation. This is a solemn moment at a time when an oath is slowed, as it was just a moment ago to welcome two new MPs in this meeting, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and his colleague. Please, let's keep that tone in the future. If there is no room, or if we add a chair, or if one of our colleagues, such as Mr Antic or Ruzic, who are fellow MPs, knows they don't have to sit in benches all the time. Thank you all for understanding. Please, let's try to be consistent with where we're sitting today, and there's a small number of people who can sit wherever they want and I use that privilege. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22754	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22755	Mr. Prime Minister, you're doing much better with a wireless microphone. In 2007, the government was formed. As soon as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. It lasted less than a year. It was formed at midnight because it was an obstruction at the time of the SRS, but it's not a topic for today's session. I want you to know the same thing that I was against that government and voted on the party's presidency against the government with Vojislav Kostunica. I didn't mention that time at all. I don't know why you took me as someone who said that. I've had your exposés since last year, and that's when we got it. I got this new one. Except this new one's in color and on expensive paper, there's no big change. It's mostly filled with general places. I didn't expect you to compare 2008 to 2013, when you have a government score a year. Why didn't you let us know what state the country was in today compared to last year? Why didn't you file a report on the work of this government that had a term of office for a year? You didn't tell us why you replaced half the government. If you are satisfied with the government's work, if you think the results were good and good, why the largest in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism to reconstruct the government? All the objections you've put on the period since 2008 and here are the working people and ministers who were in your government and in the government that we were in together. You should say honestly here – the 2012 targets are not reached. Now we have the 2013 targets. Equally empty paper is both. I have no problem bringing this minute or two before the assembly session. You couldn't have given us, because there's nothing here that says what the plan is, what the crisis plan is, what the plan is with the pension fund, the health fund, what tax reform is going to be, whether you sell Telecom, as you agree, or you won't. Where's the money for all the plans? That's what Serbian citizens are interested in. They also want to know how they're going to solve the issue of agrarians. Today we have strikes in Vojvodina, not when the government was elected, whether it was midnight, whether it was "the Batman Government", not "the Batman Government", it's something that's already become irrelevant tomorrow. We'll have a chance to talk today and tomorrow and see what your plans are for better or for the maintenance of the system in which you operate. Otherwise, today half the government already has a projection that next year is going to the polls. Let go of the election. We'll talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22756	Mr. Sutanovac, time. The People's Messenger Zechariah Trnavčević, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22757	Mr. President, you took me by the tooth last time and this time. I came to the Assembly earlier today, I filled it out, I took these girls, I took a stenographer, and I handed her over, and that class was on the table where Mrs. Ljubičić was sitting, maybe four, five. On the list of registered speakers in order, I am 66. You didn't respect the time of arrival of one application. If anything, Mr Stefanovic, you could, you have this discretionary right, to respect the fact that I am the oldest MP, not for years, but also for experience in Serbia and its economy and agriculture, to give me your word when I have filed an application, not like this. You don't want me to talk. I can go, because I've got other things to do, I'm doing shows, etc. This is incomprehensible. If I was between five and six, I'd be fine. There were so many leaves here on the table.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22758	I have to tell you, what you're saying is scandalous, Mr. Trnavcievich, first of all, because in a year's time, as a MP, you didn't even bother to study the procedure and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's scandalous. In your application, you dropped to round up whether you are "for" or "against". The Rules of Procedure make it clear that any MP who is not "for" or "against" goes to the end of the list. You've heard it a thousand times. When one suits you, you say one thing, when it suits you, the other. Ignorance doesn't justify you. You must study the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly if you wish to be a member of it. I find it scandalous to say that you have more important things to do and that you can go somewhere. That's scandalous. It is your obligation to the citizens of Serbia. You have been chosen as a Messenger of the people. Please behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the post: Mr Stefanovic, how can you tell me so? Mr. Trnavci, please sit down. You don't have a word. (Zahari Trnavčević, from the city: Shame on you. I give you a warning. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22759	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the future ministers, I want to speak on the agenda as president of the SVM parliamentary group. We are not part of the ruling majority, and we are not about to be part of the ruling majority. Just as we voted 13 months ago against the government's election, so we will vote against the reconstructed government, most likely tomorrow. This reconstruction took too long. In the end, it turned out, and unfortunately, I have to say, that from the beginning there was no clear concept, there was no idea and vision of what should be at the end of this process. Until yesterday, she was an unknown candidate for ministerial posts. And today is the unknown that the structure will deal with European integration. It is only clear that the new government will have 22 members instead of 19 and that we will have 18 ministries instead of 17. We also know that there will be a lot of experts and outsiders in the government. I want first of all to tell Mr. Vukic, since he's been propagating this whole time the idea of being as many experts, experts and outsiders as possible, that Plato still wrote in "State" about how the state should lead the first group, i.e.. They're philosophers who've been preparing for 50 years to take over the government. That model was tested back in the old century, in Syracuse, Sicily, and it proved that in practice it couldn't work. In my experience, I'm saying in my parliamentary experience that we've always had a problem with people who have come to ministerial posts as extra-party personalities. We also had the prime minister as an extraordinary figure. We've had various ministers as outsiders. The problem was that when serious political issues were discussed, they always took a step backwards and they said – we are not politicians, we come from the profession, we have no answer for these issues, this is what politicians should deal with. I am most confidently saying that I am afraid that we will have this problem now, regardless of what I want for success to all future ministers who are not party members and who are not party-colored. On the other hand, when the government is already formed as an organ that has both party people and extra-party people, experts, for example, it's not clear to me -- why exactly is the finance minister an extra-party personality, and why is the minister of regional development and local self-government party personality, vice president of the party, in this particular case? I think the finance minister and I don't speak against Mr Krstic, don't take this personally, but the finance minister as an institution should be a man of political experience, with political authority, so that he can say in the government -- not that he can tell his colleagues who run certain resolutions -- there's money for this, there's no funds for this. I can't imagine a situation where a foreign figure, the finance minister, can tell the vice president of the strongest party today in Serbia that there are no funds for certain goals. It's just not natural. At least it's not natural in Serbia. That's what I'm saying from experience. On the other hand, I think the minister in charge of regional development and local self-government should be an extra-party figure, an expert, an expert, an expert, if we just force experts to be in government and that the funds, if at all, will be, since the situation is such, difficult times, do not share certain local self-governments, or projects of certain local self-governments on some kind of party key. Don't mind me, Mr. Mirovic, for saying this, because I'm saying this again from experience. This isn't directed against you. This is a declaration. This is a statement of facts from the past of this Parliament and the past of this government. Let me talk about what we consider the results of this government for the last 13 months, what we resent this government and what our expectations are. I'm going to be very specific, and I want to help those people who are in the government for 13 months and those people who are going to take over from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow from Ministerial Liability and Ministerial Functions. I think that no matter what we are the opposition party and what we remain, we should say and congratulate this Government of the Republic of Serbia on its determination and for the sake of the truth, I must confess on my own behalf and on behalf of many, that we did not expect much positive from what this government has done for the last 13 months. First of all, I think of the Brussels Agreement, which is one historic result, and on the other hand, I think of progress towards the EU. I don't think a lot of people expected this kind of dynamics, and that's why I have to say publicly and congratulate the government on that, on these results from the last 13 months. This also applies to the fight against corruption. On the other hand, when we are already talking about European integration and the successes of this government regarding European integration, I must say that it is not clear to me that we have been hearing for months about the EU's accession as one of the top priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the first or second priority of this government, and that we have come to the situation that by today, we have had the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration, and from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we will have a minister without portfolio to deal with European integration. This isn't personal again. I am very glad that Mr Branko Ruzic, which he will deal with European integration. He's a man with parliamentary experience, with political experience, and I assume he'll be able to perform these tasks. But it's not a good message, ladies and gentlemen, that until yesterday we had a vice-president for European integration, and the day after that, we only have a minister without a portfolio, no matter what personality it is. I also don't understand how it's possible that only yesterday afternoon we found out that we're going to have a minister without a portfolio to deal with KIM. When the reconstruction lasts for months, half a year, how is it possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia only yesterday came to the idea that the ministry is dealing with these issues? Now that that's the case, why don't we have a minister with no portfolio to deal with the issue of human and minority rights? I think the area deserves, instead of one office, both the Office and the Minister, as foreseen for European integration and the KIM. When we talk about the government's successes, then I should say that we are very happy and pleased that this National Assembly, on a proposal from SNS and SVM, adopted the National Assembly Declaration on the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina committed in 1944 and 1945. That is the only reason why it was worth it to be a member of this call to the National Assembly. That's why I want to thank this opportunity for all those who voted in the National Assembly for this Declaration. Also, Mr Dacic, when you had a meeting with the President of the Republic of Hungary on 26 June of this year, it seems to me, then you have made a public promise at a joint press conference that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will adopt a conclusion at one of the next sessions, or a regulation, which will put two decisions from 1945, which have collectively been declared war criminals solely because of nationality. I ask you, Mr. Dacic, when can we expect this, because we want to close this tragic chapter of the common past of the Serbian and Hungarian people? I don't think there's any reason for him to be dragged away with this, and we should put an end to this question. Also, speaking of this problem, I think that in Curugu, in the case of monuments built exclusively from the funds of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that those cameras that were spoken of should be set up so that people do not suffer whether they will be targeted by certain vandals. It was a deal and I appeal to you and to this opportunity to honor it together. Maybe we shouldn't go into such details this time, but I think it's an extremely important topic. As a result, I have to mention that our initiative was adopted on petty thefts and that the limit is down from 10,000 to 5,000 dinars and that's the first step, which is very positive. But we also have an initiative to propose amendments and amendments to two laws, in the interest of introducing zero tolerances for so-called. It's petty theft. I must say, Mr. Vukic, that we absolutely support your aspirations for zero tolerance, crime, corruption, tax evasion, tax evasion, etc. But believe me, people with justification ask – how is it possible that the government advocates zero tolerance for corruption, and also does not protect the principle of zero tolerance of citizens' assets? You know, 5,000 dinars is a lot for many citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm asking you to support our initiative to introduce zero tolerances related to the so-called. It's petty theft. Speaking of grudges, Mr. Dacic, you didn't say a word today about how the government of the Republic of Serbia imagines solving problems related to the AP Vojvodina? Last time you said the government would respect the degree of autonomy, because there is no reason for a different policy towards Vojvodina, it is autonomy in Serbia and not against Serbia. We couldn't agree more. But how is it possible, on July 17th last year, that one of the first laws adopted by the National Assembly was to amend the Law on the Budgetary System, which is a relatively constitutional guarantee related to the financing of Vojvodina? How do you want to solve the issue of Vojvodina Radio-Television? Are you thinking about it? How could your government have taken 26 billion dinars from local self-government over the past year and three billion dinars from the AP Vojvodina? Not to mention disrespecting constitutional guarantees related to the famous 7%. But that's no longer spoken of, because that idea is so compromised that it's not worth talking about. But I think there's a problem to be solved. If we want to solve problems, then I think we should sit down with the responsible people who run the government and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. It's not natural there's no communication at that level. Mr. Mirovic, welcome to the Republic. I hope with your energy you can do something for development and local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. When we talk about agriculture, Mr. Glamocic, I'd only be very brief on two problems. The first concerns the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the day after tomorrow, according to which EU citizens will be able to acquire property rights and agricultural land within four years. I know you can't answer these questions right now, but I'm asking you to come up with a common force to find a solution to that question, to that problem. It is simply not natural and no country has done so, yes, I would not bid on dates but surely a few years before our entry into the EU, so we liberalise ownership of our largest natural resource, agricultural land. There are examples from the EU of how this can be solved. That's what I talked to Commissioner Phil about when he was in the National Assembly a month and a half ago. There's a way to get rid of it. This is of paramount importance to us, and we will certainly pay great attention to solving this problem. I hope you will, too. The same applies to the problem of registration of connection machines. It is again a small problem for the state, but believe it to be a huge problem with agricultural producers, because they are put ahead of impossible conditions of registration of certain machines that cannot be registered, and police are punishing these agricultural producers who are not registering something that cannot be registered. Mr. Tasovac, I hope that you will pay sufficient attention to public information and that you will be informed in good time that under our Constitution there is no allow to reduce the level of human and minority rights achieved. I hope we write the so-called. media laws start from scratch. We are not yet able to support these draft laws because they would lead to a reduction in the level of human and minority rights achieved. It would lead to national councils of national minorities not being able to be the founders of public information funds and that is contrary to Article 79. I would also like to ask Mr Krstic – did they inform you that according to Article 184 you, as Minister of Finance, and the entire Government, have certain obligations to the AP Vojvodina? Do you know, I know you can't answer, but please nod your head at least, have you been informed that this government, whose government you will be a member, has promised that by the middle of this year will be passed a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina? The law was to be passed by the end of 2008. Each government, both previous and present, violates the Constitution if it does not propose to the National Assembly the adoption of that law. (President: Time. One more sentence for the future Minister of Economy. I hope that he will give up that concept of the law on chambers of commerce, which has been circulating for weeks in the public of the Republic of Serbia, the draft or predicate, according to which the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce and the regional chambers of commerce would not exist in the future. I think that would be absolutely harmful. One more time to sum up. We won't vote for this government's election, but I want us to continue to be a constructive opposition. We hope for successful co-operation with all current and future ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22760	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22761	The Honorable President of the Serbian Parliament, honourable MPs, Dr Stefanovic, was violated by Article 107(1) who knows which way from three afternoons to today. Without basic respect and without any training, treat Zahari Trnavčević, one of the oldest colleagues who is 87 years old. You can, Stefanovic, be his grandson. You can't talk to anyone like that. A man's right about that. He didn't know if he was in or out because he didn't get the exposé in time. You warned him for no reason, and I'm asking you for an apology. Don't put any further frustrations on Hansel Dacic and Alexander Vukic to pass on to us, because we are aware that... (President: I give you a warning about the conduct of the session. ) Dr. Stefanovic, unlike you, and I think you are, I am aware that the frustrations of Ivica Dacic are such that he is wrong to ask less than Tasovec in his government. And the frustrations of Alexander Vukic are such that he can't for days but find a tiger, and then ride Dacic. (President: I give you a second warning. You can tell me one more right now, I'll take it in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22762	I'm taking your word. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to admit that I was surprised and that it was amazing when I listened to the words spoken by the MP DS. And for several hours now, with the exception of Mr. Pastor's discussion, we've been listening to screams, pressures, ugly insulting words, at one point a reminder of a period of 15 years ago, when it suits them, when you remind them of just a period of three years, then -- don't bring us back to the past. We're hearing about how the government never did anything, Mr. Pastor found a few good things. Thank you for that. That is why in his people there is much more popularity than some others who have pleaded that there is more popularity in his people than his political party. I want to say, and I'm willing to answer, I didn't answer exactly what some mentioned, and that's basic civil decency and education, not because there were no arguments to answer. Namely, to the argument - we are not afraid of you, because if not, Vukic would be informing today, my only answer is - The Wolf is today Deputy Prime Minister, it may be tomorrow, it may not be tomorrow, but it has nothing to do with any fears, nor is it that you break through the decibels and that you're talking to me in an elevated tone to drive me out of this chair, or to change my view of you or Serbia's future. As for the dictionaries - ground floor, floscule, untrue, until some see the panicked view of Lazar Krstic towards Vukic, I have to tell you that I don't know how or why anyone would be panicked. We had a two-hour conversation today, a two-hour discussion on Serbia's future, on the work of the finance ministry, and with the Minister of Economy yesterday and with the Minister of Agriculture, and I will try, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to point out what was done with the precise results. I would also say something more extensive than what Mr. Dacic spoke of, very precisely, to put it before you and to tell you what it is that we are not satisfied with, which is what I think we should change in the next period. At the same time, when someone says and keeps going out with that sentence – how is it possible that you are satisfied with the work of the government or that anything positive you can say about the work of the government, and you are changing the largest number of ministers in the government? That's because you set goals much more than your predecessors. Because we, metaphorically speaking, when we jump with a stick, want to jump six meters, not a foot and 50. Some were not able to jump a foot and a half, so there was no need to change. They didn't care much, they didn't show much responsibility. Responsible, serious, and above all successful people always move that line to more and always of themselves, first of all, and then ask more of others and ask for better. That is the fundamental reason, that is the key reason why we asked ourselves to change, to show others how ready we are to change things in Serbia. Do you think it was easy for me to say - I'm sorry, I can't be a defence minister at the same time, I can't make it? There are people who will never say that. As you can see, a large number of people took it completely peacefully, with dignity, and understood what it was about. We want someone to work harder and someone to work harder. When we talk about the government's results, it is true that the government today has an international and legal position, politically above all, and a legal position rather than a year ago. Serbia today is a respected member of what we euphemistically call an unrare international community. Our policy was like this or like this 15 and 20 years ago, but this is the result of the Serbian government's policy, which was set up a year ago. This policy does not just mean that this relationship, when we talk about the international community of Western civilization towards us, I am talking about both the EU and the US, is such a relationship and the Russian Federation. I'll remind you that their top officials here at the press conferences said this is the government with which they have the best possible communication so far, that's the first pronunciation of Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dimitri Rogozin. We also expect President Putin to appear in December at the opening of "South Stream" works in the Republic of Serbia. We have this kind of co-operation with the People's Republic of China, that kind of co-operation, and it's very important that we consider it, we have with the United Emirates and with many other Arab, as well as other non-Arab African countries. At the same time, I would say that what is an important result is the fight against corruption and organised crime. I have prepared, I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia to hear what the criticism of the former regime's representatives was, and in what way that here in the National Assembly said about us, what they said, and then I want to tell the citizens of Serbia and all of you, the honourable MPs, what is the real truth. In fact, just three days ago, Mr. Stefanovic, head of the DS parliamentary group, I want to tell all of you, all of you, these are the stenographic notes from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for those who couldn't see it, and for those who couldn't hear it. Mr. Stefanovic, I quote, said: "I don't know why, but what I know, Mr. Vukic, you said it was better in many spheres. I ask you, in what spheres is better during this government? Is it better in the judiciary where zero charges were filed for organized crime, zero? Organised crime - zero, repeat. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Now I don't want to go to the Ceausescu and Stalin elections he mentioned, put that aside. I want to read you an official report, not by Alexander Vukic, not by the Service Coordination Bureau, but by the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime from August 1st to July 31st, exactly one year. The largest number of criminal charges have been filed in the area of organised crime in previous years. A total of 180 indictments have been filed. Namely, the indictment even 180, we filed 117 charges in criminal proceedings initiated after 1 August 2012, and then brought charges for investigations that began before 1 August 2012, that is 63. Of these 117, even 113 organised crime charges have been confirmed. So when you talk about arguments, zero and 180 you'll agree that they're not the same, I'd say they're not even similar numbers. So much for the truth and so much for the data we've been reading and what the citizens are interested in. I would also like to tell you that, as far as the judiciary is concerned, from 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013, you have reached a first-degree verdict against 254 persons, 204 of which, compared to 198 persons, have been sentenced to prison. The prosecution of organised crime concluded 53 plea agreements during the period mentioned, where they were convicted and sentenced to prison sentences ranging from six months to 15 years. I now have to ask – what argument we are talking to in the first place and how we are forced to answer and how it is possible that someone on such methods is trying to bring unrest among our citizens, using the most brutal lies, and not being able to say a single bit – sorry for such untruths. I mean, since some of them mentioned-- you don't know what you're going to do with yourself, do you want to sell Telekom? No, some others who didn't know what to do with themselves were trying to sell Telekom at a time when Telekom was still relatively healthy even though they bit him. They bit him with terrible contracts, terrible contracts. Of course, these things can't remain forever a secret to the public or to the government. So many terrible contracts that you'd be shocked and so terrible that at this point I can't even tell you the details of those contracts. When I tell you that, I'm telling you because I'm ashamed of anyone knowing what kind of contracts we made. I'm ashamed because I don't want anyone from any previous period to talk about it that way, because I know that someone from abroad is looking at this and might know -- hey, so what kind of country it is, we should do business there and we should work there. If I told you what connections were found for contracts over a million euros. Not a million dinars, respected friends, over a million-euro contract, and then tried to sell Telekom, tried to sell Telekom, so Telekom couldn't sell for over a billion and 100, it wasn't 49, it was the stock control package. Today, two years after you knew that Telekom was destroyed, etc., when we think about it, and we won't sell it unless we have a significantly higher price than that and if we don't know what we're going to do with that money, you're criticizing our government, and no one alive understands why you're criticizing us. Because we're responsible, so we say we don't know what we'd spend money on or if we sell it even if it's worse because of Serbia's more favourable international position, we'll sell it for bigger money, we'll privatise it for bigger money, and that's another problem. Wait, guys, is there anything in this country that's not a problem? Whatever you do better, that's the problem. You told us when we told you we'd bring strangers, like the worst xenophobia you told us, don't bring strangers to us. When we say, well, we don't want strangers, we'll bring our experts from abroad, our people who are gone, who live in the United States, in European capitals, who are the best in our lives. Everything was great until we suggested it. The second we suggested it, that proposal was no longer good. Does that mean that in this country whatever you do, whatever you do, it's never gonna be good until you suggest it. Then say that the only reason for this criticism is that the legion of your criticism is actually -- let's be in power, we don't like looking at others in power. As for the election, usually the subject of the election is driven by those who have at least the choice, so some others don't talk about the election almost ever, or are looking to avoid it. I think I've said enough about it. Mr. Pastor, I have one more thing I want to say, someone said, threw it away – it's transferred 30 million to Jagodin from the budget reserve. So that there may be no delusion, as you can see, I'm trying to answer every remark, it's true, and you don't say what it's been transferred for. It was transferred to a Jagodina cable factory in restructuring. Why don't you say that in 2008, four times as much money was transferred to the same factory. It's no longer funny for you when I say this to you, and today it was very funny for you to realize that today 30 million went to that factory because there are 2,000 people working there and because we have to find, and today we've been struggling and we've been dealing with solving problems and these factories, and the Jagodinian brewery and many other factories in Serbia with the new finance minister and with the new economy minister to see how to solve this problem. You want those 2,000 people not to get paid? Tell it to the people. We're for you not to get paid. Say that's the reason. Say we joked when we said we should get four times as much. We cut it down, like we cut the railway subsidies. Now I'm telling you, we're going to dramatically cut the railway subsidies. We'll look to cut them all over because our concept, that's my answer to you, Mr. Pastor, it has to be and it doesn't matter who's going to be in power, tomorrow maybe you'll be with someone else in power, maybe it'll come back to DS, it doesn't look like that, but anything's possible on the political scene. So, even though that's how it has to be done, a healthy state as well as a JAT that lost 38m euros a year and we've heard fairy tales about everything. Was any of you satisfied with both the service and all that we could get from our national aviation pride? It's not that we don't say it openly. We have now made something new, something else that it takes in just 12 months to make us a profit of 30m euros. It's not good because it takes 300 people to get out of work. You know what the problem is for those unions who push press releases on the paper every day. You want me to tell you all, that all citizens of Serbia hear what the problem is. The problem is that a few dozen of them won't do tests, tests, let's say, for English. Why don't you tell that to the people. You're saying someone wants to fire them. You mean a wolf like that wants to fire you from work. No, it won't, but if you want to work in one of the most successful companies, not regionals alone, but Europeans, you have to know English, you have to pass other tests. That -- I don't want to check my knowledge because 40 years ago I got a degree, that's past time, and that people need to know that it's past time. It's the same story with all the other stuff. Are we going to make a healthy system or a sick system that's going to die on a straw, slowly but surely. I think it's time, maybe Mr. Jovanovic gets angry that I'm going to use that word from their slogan, make some kind of twist, some kind of twist to say, that, we're going to take all the heavy blows, we're going to take all the kind of abuse, we're going to take all these stories where they tell us that we're guilty of firing this, that we're guilty of not knowing what the directors are no longer going to be able to drive such limos as they are today, and they're driving them thank God, I'd rather say sorry. So all of this will take a lot of patience, a lot of effort, and a lot of blows to survive, but I don't think the government has any choice. We also talked about taxes. A few weeks ago, until before, I'd say six months ago, so five months ago, it was normal for Serbia not to pay taxes, usually. Somehow we succeeded, it seems to me together, together with you to do this today that it is a shame, that even those who expected to have a state say – you don't have to pay taxes in the end have welcomed a clear response from the state – everyone has to pay taxes, both Simpo, and Star, and Partizan and everyone in this country has to pay taxes. I'm sorry, I think that's one big breakthrough. On the other hand, you say – solve the problems of the circuit public service. To let you know, they didn't tell you that. We've got people. The people in my office talked to them, and we took measures. They will receive salaries, they have not received them since May, and now it will be settled. I'm asking some others now, those who had a political pasture over it, those who kept it under their control as they spoke and boasted everywhere. What if they kept it under their control? They didn't think how and how to help employees. How and how to solve their problems, it was important for their picture to be as dead as possible, for our picture to be as ugly as possible, and then when it did, it got them to "car to the tobacco store," so now, let's get some of them there to the Wolf and some of you to solve the problems or else we'll demonstrate against you. We'll solve that problem too. I just want to tell you about what you sent Mr. Tasovec. Our policy was exactly what I'm sure you're up for, and that's as little cost as possible from the state. I had a conversation with Mr Dinkic about it and one of the few discussions. It was about regional television, whether they were financed by the state or not. I was against it. You want me to tell you why? I'll take it from here. And I take your anger upon myself. It wasn't Mr. Dinkic's fault, he was there for it to stay. I was up for it to be lifted. You want me to tell you why? Well, because someone has to pay for it. It must be paid by those who make bread, by those who make beer, by those who make juices. And you know what it turns into when you make a low regional television that the mayor of Nis and the rest of Nis will happen to be a member of the SNS, or it doesn't matter which parties, how to make it the more beautiful and the uglier the others. But the cost of our people and the cost of our country. And it has nothing to do with minority rights. We will preserve all programmes in minority languages and in public provincial service, as we will preserve everything that is not only the scope of international public law in terms of the protection of human and minority rights, but also more than that. And in agreement with you. In conversation with your political party and with your father and with you, and with Mr. Istvan who I respect, I think that everything we agreed on that was important to both our peoples, that we respected. Have I ever asked Mr. Pastor for something for our party? Have I ever asked for anything that's inappropriate? No, I don't. We tried to do our best for our country together and do it in the interest of our peoples, and I would say, not only peace, but that there is an incomparably greater trust between Serbs and Hungarians. That's the thing we've been trying to do, and we're going to try in the future. And you know, when it got stuck, when it couldn't go through, when it couldn't, you know how fast and effective we reacted. As for sports, because some have asked, and today Vanja Udovici cannot answer questions. Yeah. And there will be reforms in sports. Yeah. What happened everywhere in the world will happen in our country. Yeah. You cannot explain to me that "Star" and "Partizan" cannot be successful if they are privatized, and "Manchester United" can. And it seems to me that this Manchester United is a little more successful than any of our clubs. A little more successful. But our problem is that we live in the Middle Ages, and we'd still want five million people to decide something and make money a state. And to get away with one and another club if it can take 10-15m euros on an annual basis. Well, that's what someone has to pay for. Are we gonna make it? If you ask me, I don't think we're gonna be able to do all these goals in a year or two. But if we make 80% of it or 70% of it, Serbia will make dramatic progress. As far as the minister is concerned, you've got their biographies. It was never a practice, I remember that now it's more widely spoken than the biography of people you could read. I don't know, it might be tasteless to say a lot nicer than what you could read. But we tried to run for the people you can't say are unprofessional. That no one can say in our country that they are not successful. Who can say that Widow's not gonna be the best way to represent our country? Who can say that the Tassian has failed in his work? Who can say that Krstic, and don't forget Djelic gave Krstic a second passport of 240 passports he handed over, another. And then he was a genius, and today he's not good. Or maybe he's good, too, but he's not good with the ones who brought him. Because they're the target. Or Professor Glamocic is no good, and I think he's the only one at the New Sad agricultural college who's been chosen three times in a row to that department. And when we asked who the most professional people were we had between two or three people a dilemma. And in each of those options was Professor Glamocic. So these are the people who came to try to change something. The people who are, it is true, are right there Mr. Jovanovic took a lot of risks. And that you have no error, each of them has been told. I personally told Mr. Tasovac and Mr. Udovic and Mr. Radulovic and Mr. Glamočić and Mr. Krstic. I told them myself. I didn't have to tell Mirovic, Ruzic or Antic or any of them. They've been in politics for years and they know it. And I told them things are a lot harder than they look. That they will encounter resistance incomparably greater than they can expect and that the situation in Serbia is much more difficult in every respect than it seems. But if we have the guts, if we have the courage, if we have the energy, if we have the desire to move the country forward. This country today, and not only by these parameters, do not mind that this year industrial production will still be much larger than last year. And be growing, not falling. Serbia is not in recession. We're not expecting a lot of significant investors here until the end of the year. Both "Bos" and "Mercedes" and "Azaka" and "Takatu" etc. So we expect a lot of significant investors. We expect the signing of the contract with Mubadal, a large factory from Mykondator, therefore, in our country. We're still expecting a lot. But none of it will be enough if we don't try to break what's in our consciousness and what's in our behavior with all our powers and all our powers. No one else can do that. I've looked at some research today. I don't want to talk about political parties. But in this survey, 24.5% of people in Serbia think there is no government anyone would ever form that can do anything for Serbia. So, a quarter of Serbia thinks we're all absolutely incompetent and that no one can ever change us. Our goal and task is to change such awareness, not just with those citizens. First of all, we start changing our behavior. To show that we can behave differently, more responsibly, in the end, that we can talk and that we can talk about the results. And for the end of this part, I have tried, as far as Agrara is concerned, to receive representatives of the Banatian paoars, to receive all people who, whenever possible, express their desire to come to the Serbian government. Excuse me, dear friends, we have stock. Serbia's government paid 94% of subsidies, so 94% of our obligations, as far as the subsidy is concerned, have been carried out. Is it our fault that Ukraine has the largest tribe in the history of Ukraine and that the price of stock market goods is that, because someone gave us sermons the other day, so he was saying, last year it was the price of a plum of 23 dinars, and now it's 10 dinars, or the price of wheat was this much higher than it is today. What does that have to do with the Serbian government and the Serbian citizens need to know, one must tell Serbian citizens that the government has nothing to do with it and will have nothing to do with it. The government can help, to point processors to certain things, but the government cannot interfere with the price of stock exchanges and people in Serbia must know that it is not the government's job. It's our job to subsidize agricultural production in the best possible way, it's our job to see if we can build up property, it's our job to see how we can help apply agritechnical measures, not secure the price, because it's been 25 years, time. Do you need to re-colholze and sohoze to organize and guarantee the price in such a way? That's impossible. This is contrary to EU rules. This is contrary to market rules. And I know a lot of people are surprised that I'm saying this right now. But that's the way it is. And that's how it's gonna be for whoever's in power. And we don't have a problem, we'll take them all, and we'll always see what the state's obligations are, and we'll meet the country's obligations. And I want to tell you, since I see that some people who read research, and I read them both a little longer and more extensively, see that most Serbian citizens think Serbia is going in the right direction. So that's why they're trying to be disastrous and cataclysmic scenarios to scare our citizens. I want to calm Serbia's citizens, it's not an easy situation in the country, it's very difficult but Serbia knows where it's going, Serbia is going the right way and Serbia cannot be stopped by those who think it's important to get their hands on the chair without doing anything for Serbia. I am convinced that this team of the Serbian government will deliver a great deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22764	Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22765	Article 116, Article 107. Now is not the time to analyze in more detail what Mr. Wolfich was talking about, but I have to react to one thing. He said, when the idea of bringing foreign experts appeared, you attacked it, you addressed the opposition as the worst xenophobia. I don't know who Mr. Wolfie meant. The LDP, I, among the LDP officials, criticised the concept. Never because someone who needs to come has a foreign passport because he's not a Serb. Maybe someone did. I'm not getting into that. Well, that's a good point, then. We criticized that concept because it wasn't a concept. Because you can't bring Dominic Stroscan and you can't have a government where half the parties would come to power by saying "net" to the IMF. You can't bring potential advisors from one British party and have two-thirds of the government that doesn't agree with what Margaret Thatcher did or what Tony Blair did. Hardly any of us, Mr. Vukic, I don't know, yet, perhaps there are too many, are too many black situations, but in the prime minister's exposé, it says that almost the entire Serbian economy is in pre-determined condition. It's a very difficult description, I agree with him, and I don't think it's just this government's fault for the past year. But if you say -- it's a new time, there's no more responsibility for other people's debts, we're going to cut the radical subsidy in the railroad, it could have been done this year. I find that hard to believe, if the government made a decision yesterday to convert the claim it has, say, RFZO to Simpa to state capital. It's not a modern state and it's not possible. Then they'll be looking for "The Railway" tomorrow, they'll be looking for "Serbiagas", everyone else will look for it. It's not a normal market. Since the small furniture manufacturer, who is a privateer, is watching and you said at one point – someone on TV will be advertised, all to be paid by the producers of juices or customers, ultimately paid by consumers. (President: Time. ) Someone makes furniture, citizens buy it, pay taxes to everyone in that circle, and then that money goes to Simpa who didn't pay taxes. I'm sorry, it's death for the economy. I'm sure those who came to the economics side of the government agree, but I don't think any other members of the government agree. You choose very carefully which ministers you mention. You don't mention, like part of some new concept...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22766	Mr. Guric, two minutes and 30 seconds. Unfortunately, I can't let you talk. Otherwise, I ask you not to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica of what any member of the Government has said. Thus, this breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to what the president or member of the National Assembly said. When you want to replicate, you can do so if you are an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, or if you are personally mentioned, which you know very well. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22767	I'd like to answer what you said about Simpo. As for Simpa, I want the citizens to know that Simpo has so far had 42% of the state capital and that the essence was in it, and it has been opposed by many and in the leadership of Simpa, and Simpo is our largest producer and factory that employs the largest number of people in southern Serbia. I don't have to tell you how disastrous it would be for us to stop Simpo from working, but that's why we didn't want to let that money, that first they wouldn't be allowed to pay taxes, and on the other hand, that the money that the state would "forgave", or that it wouldn't be included, or not converted into state property, which means that now, it was temporarily made for five years, the state would own almost 65% of Simpa, the state is setting up management, the state is making decisions, and not as it has been the case so far, privates who were the majority owners of Simpa. It's about Simpa, and it's important for the citizens to hear and know why it is. It's a little different, though, because it wasn't about a public enterprise. So it's a different story than the railroads and these other companies. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to try to be at the same time as you, so that I don't abuse it and use it for a long time, so, as far as strangers are concerned, I think it's important for us to learn from people from different spheres of social life in many countries that we have to learn from. I spoke to Peter Mendelson live, and he said, I would say the legend of the Labour Party of Britain, both from Blair and Brown's period, the man who raised the party in 2009 with his famous speech, etc. When he defined himself between Campbell and him, Blair defined himself so important to him, he is today a lord, that I learned a lot from one conversation. I'm not ashamed to say I have anything to learn from Mendelson. I'm sure these other people have a lot of financial stuff to learn from Stroscan, and I think we should make an arrangement with the IMF, and I'm telling you frankly, as you can see, I'm not ashamed. On the other hand, I think that bringing strangers wasn't about you, I didn't even hear your statement, I'm sorry I wasn't careful enough, but for some others who realized it was some kind of patriotic thing, as if less patriots were the ones who would bring any of the foreigners to help us in any way. I am convinced that the learning, education and progress of each and every one of us and learning many procedures and many things we did not know, enjoined the son of qua non of our progress, and I am not proud of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22768	The Ballint Pastor replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22769	Mr. Wolfie, thank you for your kind words, I'll try to be precise. You were talking about the government's goal and yours, as first Deputy Prime Minister, to create a healthy system. I assume you've alluded to the fact that the funds in the budget aren't as much as we'd all like it to be. I agree here, and if we are talking about a healthy system, you are a kind of lawyer, then we should also think about the principle of rule of law, which is the supreme principle of our Constitution, and the EU, among other things, rests on this pillar and on that principle. I think we should start talking about how we can respect constitutional guarantees, about Vojvodina, that the funds are enough for all purposes as far as possible, not that this problem that exists has been pushed under the rug for years. You know very well that we have advocated these ideas in the last term when we were part of the ruling majority. You know that we were punished for that, you know that it was said then by our partners that we voted against the 2009 budget in agreement with the SNS, and we didn't become part of the ruling majority even 13 months ago with you, we won't become it tomorrow. That's why I said that these questions were raised and that it's just hard to start these questions and that's why we talked less about this problem for the last 13 months than we did in the previous session. It should be discussed, it is not natural that the only communication in the relation of the province-republic exists between the president of the province's assembly and the president of the National Assembly. It should also be discussed with the province ministers if the heads of the government receive the presidents of the municipality, the mayor's municipality, then they should discuss with the leaders of the AP Vojvodina, discuss the law on jurisdiction, not implementing the Law on Public Property, not passing the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Please discuss these issues, as well as public services and this... (President: Time, Mr. Pastor. I conclude, on these questions I have asked Mr. Tasovac, because our intentions are sincere and good, I have no doubt they are yours, but there are also questions to be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22770	I ask the MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to a two-minute replica. You've been talking for almost three minutes now. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22771	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We, ladies and gentlemen, have now heard the thirty-minute exposés of the real prime minister of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, and we do not know on what basis he spoke? Please chair, although it has been useful to listen, I mean even more content than the Prime Minister's exposé, because it is a real prime minister and a man who carries all the responsibility for the future bad steps that will happen. So, I'm asking you, on what basis did the Deputy Prime Minister answer for a word and speak for 30 minutes, knowing that we can't answer for more than two minutes, even though it's absolutely on all the shows, in all the TV, news articles of Aleksandar Vukic. I guess it's a little small, so it takes 30 minutes here without a foundation to call the opposition and not give them a chance to answer. Here, I just asked a question in 50 seconds, and the main problem is that the stenograms are being removed from the previous sessions. Imagine, Mr. Wolfie, that we take out your stenograms from before, so we can read them here? That's not a very nice thing, you'll agree. We've told you nicely, the charges of organized crime, as a felony, the Association of Criminal Crimes, the more people join together in the domain of general crime, are zero. You then added the "Agrobank" which is one of the cases with 17 or 20 indictments, and then to the citizens of Serbia toss a 180 figure. But lest we go into it, and then I said to you, "If we are wrong, correct us, and you said, "We will deliver you." For what? If we are wrong, correct us and we will deliver your words - you are lying, harassing the citizens of Serbia and their peace, their faith in my infallibility. That's what you wanted to say. Three thousand people you let out of prison. Did Bris Taton kill himself? Did the mosque set itself on fire in Belgrade? Is Cane Sobotić and Joca Amstendarm, are they free? No, they're not. Is this Mandelson you mention being expelled from two governments in Britain? Is he accused of corruption with Deripasco? Is this the expert you're talking about, is he accused of corruption with Deripasco? Is that the expert you're talking about yet another observation and I'm done. When you accuse us of xenophobia, it's like Stalin accusing someone of communism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22772	Let me answer. Mr. Vukic spoke on behalf of the government's representative because the prime minister was not there and on this basis he had the right to take his word. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must explain to the citizens of Serbia. Those who aren't lawyers and don't need to know. The merger to commit a crime is not a synonym for organized crime. Organized crime involves a number of crimes, and association to commit crimes is just one in a series of crimes and a set of acts that fall into organized crime, and that is not even true. You've got indictments filed for association to commit a crime. Whether it's nice or not, I'll read it to the citizens one more time, let them hear it. "Mr. Vukic, you said that it is better in many spheres, and I ask you in which spheres is better? Is it better in the judiciary, where zero charges were filed for organized crime? Organized Crime - Zero. “ Organized crime, 180 indictments were filed in less than a year. That's the truth. I would like to say to the citizens of Serbia that 22 indictments have been brought about the unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs. I also want to tell the citizens 17 frauds, reports have been filed for the crime of money laundering, counterfeiting of official documents, tax evasion, as well as heavy theft, association to commit crimes, illicit production, holding, carrying and carrying of weapons and explosive materials, heavy murder and giving away official secrets. So, just so the citizens know what is involved in organised crime and what all the state of Serbia has done in the previous period. As to the constant remarks whether or not I had the right to speak, and what bothers you when I speak? What's your problem when I'm talking? Would you like that if no one had the right to answer? Would you like to be able to talk like you say all the time without anyone telling you anything? Well, you're talking about all the TVs and all the newspapers. I'm going to ask tomorrow and I'm going to deliver to you, both to you and to the public, how many guests on Serbian state television had the president of your party, and how many I had from 1 August of last year to 1 September of this year, and you'll see that there is no such difference, or maybe it weighed on the other side. The other thing is, I've become an obsession with many people, so they talk about me everywhere. I don't mind. I don't mind when you say such bad things because the citizens of Serbia know they're not true and because in a political sense you hit yourself when you say it that way, because people know it's not true. As for the newspaper interview, please count them. You also say that your president had a superior advantage, but I've never raced with you, because I would never have had a chance. I have no seconds, no minutes, no millions, no nothing. What I have is an idea, it's faith, strength and energy that we can change something that you can't win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22774	National MP Srdjan Mikovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22775	Mr. President, I'm reporting as per article 27. Rules of Procedure. I've got material in front of me that everyone's got. It's the material signed by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister suggests that certain persons should be elected for members of the government. I don't see the possibility that anyone other than the Prime Minister, except anyone who's been given the term of office of the president of the state, would be a proprietor and no one else. The government does not propose to us other members of the government, to us Mr. Ivica Dacic, who has been given the mandate, he is the one who can explain the proposal and defend the proposal and there is no other, but I do not see now in the hall of those who are supposed to pollute with all of us, the MPs, and that convinces us that these are the best personalities for the members of the Government. There is no problem in discussing it, agreeing or disagreeing with it, but only this person can be a proprietor and plight with the MPs. That's why, Mr. Chairman, please let's see, that we don't create a circus here, that those who discuss with the MPs may not be in charge, regardless of the content of the conversations of each of those who have reported so far. So I'm not getting into it, but the only promoter is Mr. Ivica Dacic. Let's wait for him, and let's keep talking to him. Everything else is in direct contrast with the Rules of Procedure. In direct contrast, it is even with the Constitution, because, according to the Constitution, Article 127. The constitution is defined who and how it proposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22776	You're partly right, but under Article 89. The Rules of Procedure also have the right to participate in the discussion. Now, if you want a unilateral debate, not to hear the opinion and members of the government, that's another question. So I think it's much more useful for you to hear the opinion of individual members of the government on the reconstruction of the government, and then you'll get a proper overall. I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt. If you think he's hurt, you can plead that you want to make the National Assembly's statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the place: Yes, I do. ) The people of Parliament, Janko Veselinovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22777	The Honorable Chairman, I can list several members, but I think you have a duty to interrupt the session because there are no mandaters here who propose and explain the ministers who are on the agenda today. Mr. Wolfie, it's not that, and I'm asking you to interrupt the session. You owe it to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22778	I don't think there's really any reason to interrupt the session. The debate can be conducted successfully. If I concluded that the debate would not be successful, in which case I would interrupt. For now, I don't see any reason. National MP Predrag Markovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22779	Thank you. Please, as usual, I'm trying to help everyone. Very clearly, the Rules of Procedure determines who has the right to speak. A member of the government has the right to speak when he asks for a word and gets his word right away. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. Please, there's no reason to be confused about it. At the same time, have an understanding, one is the Rules of Procedure, one is the people. Look at these young people they're the first time in the congregation. Please sit down all the time. Is the promoter present as a member of the government or not speaking? He is in the Assembly, and in this sense there is no reason to interrupt the session, and of course it is your obligation, I understand that you may put names out of your mind sometimes, but it is your obligation to allow in an adequate, decent way, and this will certainly help you all responsible MPs, conduct a discussion of what is important for the citizens of Serbia, which is to give people a chance to come to their seats and that the government is doing its job. If she doesn't do it right, the congregation will take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22780	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, but you didn't tell me by which member you advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you basically said what I said. So, I don't see the Rules of Procedure getting hurt. The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22781	You see, on Mr. Markovic's discussion, he's absolutely right when it comes to the bill. But this is about the government's choice. This is where you work... Please just calm down, (The People's MPs are getting out of place: Which member? ) Member27, because we must take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and this is about the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government. What's this about? You have various promoters in the National Assembly. In some situations, the legislator is the Government and, of course, then a representative of the Government can come forward whenever he wants. You have other promoters, so there's no government promoter everywhere. You've got somewhere to propose the Prime Minister. We do not have that the government has proposed part of the minister, but that the Prime Minister has proposed the government's composition, and if it is the only one, which is Mr. Ivica Dacic, he can discuss here. There's no problem talking about everything, but maybe it's better if we talked about it elsewhere, not here at the plenary session, because at the plenary session we have to respect this, which is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There is probably a need for us to admire all this, there will be times when questions are asked to the members of the government. But right now, only Mr. Ivica Dacic is an authorized promoter and he's the only one who can answer, and he can pick up whenever he wants. So, when he enters the O.R. after every discussion, he can answer and no one can take away his word, but only he, since he's the only one who proposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22782	I'm still at the point where he's not hurt by his Rules of Procedure and he's got working conditions, and we keep working. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22783	I'm advertising the breach of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. It's been three and a half hours since the debate began. In three-and-a-half hours, I've seen, and I haven't moved from the Hall of Such a creation into the politics of a large opposition party, formerly large, okay, I accept that I really don't understand it. If we lost Mr. Chairman in the beginning, an hour and a half, two hours of time asking for people who are candidates for ministers to address this high house, and now three and a half hours after the debate begins, it is not allowed for the members of the government to address this high house, please excuse me, what is this all about? When are you right? What are you representing? When someone who is at this point still a face-to-face candidate for minister, a candidate for a member of the government to address without being able to address the minister. Please, I don't understand this. We've got to stop this lardy. This is only the introduction or continuation of further obstruction, continuing to send a very bad message to the citizens of Serbia. I'm asking you to stop this and get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22784	Mr. Babic, I support your presentation, but unfortunately you took the wrong member, as far as I can see, so please apply the relevant member to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. I support your opinion in this regard, and I believe that the Rules of Procedure are not injured, but I cannot influence the MPs that they are not using the right to advertise damage to the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22785	Mr. Chairman, Article 27. Would you please tell us where the Prime Minister is? We have no information as to why the Prime Minister left the meeting. We got exposés, they were called ambassadors...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22786	Mr. Palalic, just one moment. Please wait. That member's already been advertised, but keep an eye out. That goes for other MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22787	We didn't get any information on where the Prime Minister is? The Prime Minister addressed the National Assembly, threw out a glove, told opposition MPs that he was looking forward to a conflict and political struggle and left. We are now simply caught up in the situation that came after that. It's an important debate, the government is elected. It's the Prime Minister who needs to give an explanation and answers. We have no objection to other representatives of the government, but it is the Prime Minister who announced the debate and the answers to all the questions here. Therefore, I ask you first to give that answer so that we can continue to work normally and see what causes the presence of the Prime Minister to be prevented.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22788	Here's to not answering me, the Deputy Prime Minister wants to answer that question, so if you're not satisfied, we'll move on with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22789	Let me help you. I don't have a problem with that. I realized that this kind of obstruction will last as long as it takes. Seeing as the biggest problem is that I'm talking, I see it's a terrible problem, so don't worry, I won't talk unless there's some kind of replica, I won't speak in any way. It could have been the Prime Minister, and it didn't have to leave a written authority either, but if that's the biggest problem, if everything we've talked about is everybody's concern about whether you're going to hear and get an answer from the government, and in the end you don't need to hear and get an answer from the government, because we want you to get an answer from Ivica Dacic, and before that, you said that someone else who really is the Prime Minister, I apologize for talking to you. I apologize for taking your time. If nothing, I spoke for the citizens of Serbia, and in the future I will use this pay phone just to answer you, possibly replicate and nothing else. I thought it was important to talk about key issues, key things for our country, to talk about it in front of the entire Serbian audience, that all our citizens can hear it. Since I see that I'm not here, would it be an objection to where the one who decides everything for God's sake? When it's not Dacic here, then it's – why isn't Dacic here? Whatever it is, if I had come in a light blue suit, would have been what you came in a light blue suit instead of someone else's? I think that's what the citizens of Serbia saw. It's like a story about strangers, like a story about our smart kids who went out of the country, so they should go back to the country. There will always be enough reason to criticize and attack Leibnic. I have understanding of it and I have made mistakes in this way, and I have behaved in such a way, but always after a while, even before midnight, to make our own decision – it is better that Serbia has a government than it is not. So I ask you to accept my apology for speaking at all, and I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia did not mind what I was saying. You'll get a chance to get answers in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22790	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22791	Article 27. If you'd given me your word on time, when I answered, maybe you wouldn't have spoken like this, Mr. Wolf. Here, LDP doesn't mind Mr. Wolf speaking. We didn't complain about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We asked to hold consultations or talks before this. We are fine that even today, when that was gone, we are talking about it in the congregation session. I don't go into other parties' tactics, I don't care. So I don't mind him talking. In that case, I signed up for the replica half an hour ago, Mr. Arsenovic. We can't come up to talk about it. Take care of how you conduct the session. We were just on our way. I don't mind being told by Mr. Vukic, because I think it actually proves between what he's talking about and what Mr. Dacic is talking about. What is the key observation of the LDP is that future government policy is inconsistencies and inconsistencies. We'll show it a little later on the Mendelson case and how Mendelson fits into what visions are like PUPS or some other actors in the future government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22792	Mr. Djuric, you know very well why you didn't come to the line. I don't see how you've advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure at all. You signed up for the replica, and so far they've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know that people who advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure have the advantage over replication. The word has Prime Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22793	I'm sorry I wasn't there to see your expressions of enthusiasm for my presence. I want to tell you that I certainly didn't come out to do my own private needs. Serbia's government has other jobs. In addition to this, discussions are being held on other very important topics. I apologize for my absence. I would also ask all those who have sought my presence in parliament, and I have been in parliament, to be present for the entire time of this session, because I will no longer go out. I can, but since you want me to be present, I will certainly meet all of it in accordance with your wishes and demands. I noticed that as your enthusiasm declines during the discussion, there are usually only a few MPs left. I'd be very pleased to have as many at the end of the session as there are now. As far as I can tell, we're still dealing with technical and parliamentary issues. I am very happy if these are the biggest remarks you have on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If that's an observation, I'm back and I hope your happiness doesn't end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22794	The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22795	First, Article 107, because you did not intervene when the dignity of the National Assembly was not respected while Mr Babic discussed, and the fact is that at that time he made a statement right after my discussion, when I was strictly procedurally pointing out certain, let it be, inconclusive, not to say a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I am glad that later the first Deputy Prime Minister confirmed that I was right and was later confirmed by the fact that the Prime Minister and Proposer of the Government came here to resolve this whole procedural matter. The fact is that the only promoter of the new composition of the government is Mr. Ivica Dacic. That was the whole discussion. The fact is that before that, the first Deputy Prime Minister, regardless of what was unfounded in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, spoke for about half an hour. I can figure out a minute, two, three, 15, 20, 25, but almost 30 minutes, it's gonna be a lot. That is why, if so much has been said, and there is no basis for it in the Rules of Procedure, I have more than indicated that it is not being violated. Every time one of the MPs exaggerates for 20 seconds, there's already a big problem here why he exaggerated 20 seconds compared to those two minutes of possible replication or pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Again, on the other hand, we have someone who doesn't have the right to speak and speak for 25 minutes without anyone turning their attention that he has no right for a minute, not 25 minutes. If we have resolved these procedural matters, if it has been proven that my discussion was in line with the Rules of Procedure, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22796	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22797	It was a long time ago, but I hope everyone remembers. Here, Mr. Wolfie, let's get this theme straight. As far as I understand it, at least from the media, Simpo was granted a interest-free, short-term loan from the government and paid off the money yesterday, it seems to me, the debts he owes to the republican PIO Fund. Some other debts, such as those claims held by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, are not paid out and come to that part of the acquisition of ownership or additional part of state ownership, i.e. the Government in Simpa. That's not possible. It's economically unsustainable, pointless. The Republic Health Insurance Fund is not a state, not even a state fund in economic terms, and is particularly not legal. Those insurance companies who pay their contributions neatly have nothing to do with the fact that someone else has not paid their contributions. Then the state instead entered the property of Simpa. Although "Simpo" tried to make up for the debt to some mattresses and nightstands, it would be of some benefit to Serbian hospitals. It's no use like this. In doing so, it is not temporary because Dragan Tomic, director of Simpa, publicly states that this is probably a permanent arrangement, since there are no serious customers for Simpo. That's why I don't understand what government policy is in this area. That's why I think there are serious cracks. I agree Mendelson did all that. Before that, he may have been even more significant. He's determined who's going to lead the new laborers. But the three of them did one important thing first. They didn't just top it off and nominally change that party, so when they deleted it from that program that it was still a role model for the state economy, statehood, nationalisation, then the whole party did it. Then there was not one policy at the government level, and another policy, for example, in the exposé as it is here today, it is said – a gradual and responsible reduction in the state's share. It wasn't British politics. They accepted what Margaret Thatcher did, moved on. It's about the automotive industry. They accepted what was broken in Britain in 1983-1984. That's why these examples aren't good. Mr. Bačević does not accept any of this, I guarantee you, Mr. Krkobic, even less.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22798	Time. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22799	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Prime Minister, respected ministers, the JS will support the election of members of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The only objection we have from the JS is the explanation of the exposé that the Prime Minister had first to say what he had inherited, that he didn't know that the full budget was being filled, that the Prime Minister hadn't invented an affair with aflatoxin, and that agricultural production was destroyed on the other hand during those three months and that we were all engaged in this affair, and we didn't tell the farmers that they had received 95% of the promised subsidies. Is that a little or a lot? It may be small, but based on the budget it was the way it was inherited, it's so much. Will there be more next year? Of course there'll be more. If we had been doing a report on what we inherited, it would have been a different debate and it would have been different if all these affairs had been staged over the past year. Then, the affair that the Minister of Education was guilty of stealing the tests and taking it out of the press. It's a blow to the entire government, a blow to education, students, and so on. Those who need to co-operate with Serbia, they see that there are a lot of problems in Serbia all the time, and that these problems are not in these developed countries, and in fact they are problems without facts and without arguments. Also, in your exposé, you said that priority is new jobs. I can tell you, Prime Minister, that much more interest in the last 13 months in the arrival of foreign investors in Serbia than it was in previous years. I built an industrial zone six years ago. I've visited over 15 states. Wherever I go to offer something, they say – okay, but when they consult with their resolution ministers, they say – where should we come to you, they talk one thing when they come to a meeting here in our country, and when they return to Serbia, they talk another. Today I said what this government has done well, and that this is physically visible and that Serbia has an economic interest. Today I saw a column that must have been more than 20 km away, and if there were not 5% of Serbian plates in that column, that these are plates from other countries, and that these vehicles come to cities by the highway, something must be eaten by passengers in those vehicles, etc. What does that mean? There is no longer that fear of big investors from Europe. There is no longer that fear of citizens whether the problem is going through Serbia and going to a country. Even years ago, it wasn't a problem, but they didn't trust our previous politicians. Such a negative label was made in Europe for Serbs, that we and all those who went through Serbia went through other countries. Mr. Prime Minister, how do you get new jobs? Neither Dacic nor Vukic, when they go to Italy to see the Prime Minister to bring in an investor, either Velimir Ilic can, nor can any of the ministers. Why? The Prime Minister won't agree and say - go to that address, I have one investor who owns a factory that wants to go to another country. That's what we should be doing. You did a good job of making a good investment program, and that's one fact. There's no such program anywhere in Europe. You've opened the way for us, but we who aren't in charge have to do what you can't. That's what Mr. Sasha Antic and I did. Sasha, while I'm talking, you have to keep your mouth shut, 'cause I keep my mouth shut when you talk. We've visited more states. In a year, we've been in Italy four times. We were in a town called Vareza, Rome, Verona and we're going to Bari – from September 25th to September 28th and now I want to invite all the mayors from Serbia, who have an industrial zone, to answer the address, they know my phone number, too, to take them. In two or three months, I will no longer have a location to bring foreign investors. I want to help other cities, other mayors and tell them it's not hard at all. How do we do that? We go to that country, we tell what our government is doing, that there is stability and we say – this investor came into that city and, please, sir, stand up and say is it true that everything I said, that our country gives subsidies to so many thousands of euros, that you get papers very quickly, that in several cities you have industrial areas where you get a free location? Yes, it is. Always, wherever we went to a country, in a town, we brought a new investor. The government of the Republic of Serbia should give the country's guidelines, where those who are not high officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can go to those countries and offer what Serbia offers. We found Italy. Italy is currently the largest investor in Serbia and has the most investors that have already created factories, opened businesses, over 600 and something. The new destination is Greece. I ran a business delegation and there were several mayors with me in Katerina. Why is Greece a new destination? Because the tax rates have been increased in Greece and that everything that has been a privilege for 50 years for investors and large-capital owners in Greece is no longer there. We're similar to the same people. When we tell them what we offer, they look forward to coming to Serbia. I gave them two acres of land. They gave us a hectare of land, gave us as the city of Jagodina, where we received another destination and brought Serbia to the sea. We took Serbia to the sea two years ago in a town called Christopoli. We got four acres of land on the coast of the sea and this mayor brought it to us and what it looks like is a project where we can make, whether it's going to be a tourist or not, I don't know what complex. Be assured that this facility and these facilities at these two destinations will withdraw agricultural production from Serbia. It is a Greek climate better than Serbia when it comes to agricultural production, but it does not produce everything produced in Serbia. This is one message, and I ask you that when you turn to one another and answer the criticism, ask those who criticise, what do they suggest at this time? What's it supposed to be in this exposé that you didn't suggest? Mr. Prime Minister, I also want to tell you that wherever I went to any country, in no country have I heard anything bad about our government or about the President of the Republic of Serbia, which was not the case in earlier years. Now I want to invite these opposition politicians not only to go on vacation on exotic islands where one day costs 5,000 euros -- I'm going to Paralya where the 1.70-euro giros is eaten, and there you can get real information about how Serbian citizens live, or most, because they are uninformed, go to places where they go to sheiks, bohemians and when they come here, they don't know that this state is called Serbia and that this Serbia has had a very bad past in the past 10 years, or 12 years, thanks to these and those people who criticise all the time. Then they say -- how do you say Palma, how do you say this, etc? I'd like someone who's opposition and criticises what I'm doing, to tell me where he was born, how many votes he got, and in the street where he lives, how many votes did he get? It's an indicator when someone admits you, when you're recognized by your neighbors, whether you're doing well or not. What's the problem in the state of Serbia? Why didn't the government and former officials know what our priorities were? We've been playing with Europe and with great powers, and that game is costing us dearly. We've had two wars and bombings that we can never recover from. We need to know the messages they're sending us, whether these messages should be accepted or not. I want to congratulate you on fighting Hashim Thaci. When you first left, I couldn't sleep for three days. The third time you had a meeting, I was looking forward to the next meetings because I saw you representing Serbia. This is what you applaud, don't take a nap. Mr. Dacic, you have no idea what responsibility you have. You are also unaware of what you have done so well for Serbia. At this point, you can't see it in an ordinary man's pocket. He did not have an increased salary since yesterday and no pension was raised and the drugs were not cheap and it is not free schooling, etc., but in two, three and four years he will see Serbian citizens making that progress and that fight you fought, Prime Minister of course with the largest party in the government, with SNS, with Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. I did support the previous president of Serbia. He did not win, but it was time for Serbia's president to be from the forest, which was never there, and for the Prime Minister to be from central Serbia. What was I gonna say about that? If I were not misunderstood by people who belong to other nations, never better co-operation was from an area called the Raška area, someone called it some different dictionary, never better co-operation with Vojvodina, with Hungarians, with other nations, never less international problems than the last year since you were the Prime Minister. That's a fact. Is it art or is it your long experience or the winds, the storms that have blown you for the last 20 years? I don't think any of us have that experience, because you were the first man in the 1990s, when the criteria, or the first, third fourth, were very high and big. Today I'm sure the criteria are very high for these people you're proposing for future ministers. I won't talk about individuals, but I also took it so much easier when they didn't tell me this was from SNS, Mr. Tasovac from the SPS, etc., then I would give myself the right to think – well, woe to those who are not members of these parties, and the mayors are in Serbia and the city's water. This criterion, I'm sure, will be very positive for citizens. When it comes to sports, it's a very important role to play in sports. Sports should represent someone who was involved in sports and someone who knows what sport is, not someone who was only in shorts when he was recruited when he went to the army, or ran when the neighbor's dog chased him, and he understands sports. That's how it was years ago. It's a good thing now there's a criterion for people to name themselves to some functions that have a certain result. The gentleman, mentioned as an expert, no one has the right to criticise him at this time. Maybe at first a statement came out, but my God, a man is not a politician, etc. Let's give him six months and we have to give him six months to see the measures he's proposing and whether those measures are better than the measures we've had in years and so on. What's important, Mr. Future Finance Minister? It's important that we don't change tax laws every three months or every six months. That way, we'll scare those who want to bring capital to Serbia. It is also important that you build a network and that the whole of Europe knows that in Serbia is the smallest gross salary and that it is smaller than the states that are over-indebted, such as Italy's most indebted country in Europe. In Italy, gross salary is 2000 euros, and in Serbia 580 and 620, respectively. When you say that to a great employer, a great owner of capital, his motivation is much greater. Also, what's important to foreign investors? As of tomorrow, when you are Minister of Finance, you send an electronic route to export without customs from Serbia to Turkey, Russia and several other countries. From Italy, individual products export to Russia where the customs rate is up to 30%. It automatically has a third of the price based on savings, as it will not pay customs when it is exported from Serbia. That doesn't know 90% of the owners of capital from Europe. What else do you have to do? One day you'll go and be a member of the delegation that I'm organizing. Not that you would learn what I'm doing, but just such a visit and such an organization has yielded results. Please, when you're elected, if you have time, from September 25-28, we're going to Bari to the owner of a large kitchen factory. The factory comes to Jagodina and will employ over 200 workers. The owner had traffic of about 800m euros last year. He will bring us seven more, eight investors and similar areas from Italy, and that you and, of course, the government say which cities to go to. I will not agree with those cities where they say - our cities are not by the highway. It doesn't necessarily mean that your community or city is by the highway. What do you have to do to bring him to Serbia and for three days not to let him sleep, to see that Serbia and the Serbian people are the best people in Europe. Anyone who comes in doubting whether they will invest or bring some money to Serbia or to Jagodin or other cities, three days after spending in Serbia, does not return to the country from where it is. Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to suggest that you go and visit Serbia. Serbia wants to hear what you've been saying today, what you've been doing in the past year. Not all citizens have time to watch the congregations and watch what MPs say. Unfortunately, a lot of stories spoken here in parliament are not true and people are bored with the terms used in this sacred home and they're sending a message about how young people should behave tomorrow, or those who are just standing up, become businessmen, or, I don't know, to do some other business. This government, the previous one, from JS will get four plus with a dot. That's a very high grade. Maybe the citizens aren't happy, but there's also an excuse for that. I don't want to talk about that excuse, but I'm asking you to tell the citizens what you inherited tomorrow, what are your obligations, that there are fewer taxpayers and more users. How do you get new taxpayers? Are these future small and medium-sized enterprises? That's what Suleiman Ugljanin and I know very well, because he was the mayor of the city that was best known as the city where the biggest trade and Texas production was. So wherever I go to some state, I'm taking Mayor Pazar with me and he's already done a few jobs. I have to tell you, it's a very difficult job. Business and finance are very hard to work with. And for the family, for one host who always looks to be satisfied with all the family members, and to settle all the obligations he has to the state. I expect that the old and new government, the new ministers, will continue to work at a full pace. I have no objection to the outgoing ministers. Also, I can't praise the coming ministers. I'm sure they'll do well, but that result has to be visible. A few ministers won't be in office today where they used to be. I couldn't see the reasons, but simply, you were in the evaluation and assessment of who was doing it. I just want to, as your coalition partner and as JS who hasn't asked for a single ministerial post. You offered me and Mr. Alexander Vukic offered me 15 days ago. I said no. Not because I don't want to or because I'm scared, but I trust you, and that's why JS gives this government confidence in the next period of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22800	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22801	I just wanted to warn you, I called earlier, that those who asked me to be in the O.R. at the time weren't in the O.R. No head of the opposition parliamentary club is present, except Dusan Petrovic. Is that how you think you teach others lessons? What urgent business you had, so you got out of here. (The People's MP throws out of place: we have destroyed the government. You took down the government on the street, but it seems to have failed. As for that, Mr. Mikovic, Mr. Palalic pointed out that I was not present. If you've already pointed out that, then it would be your turn to be present during this debate. The People's Messenger throws it out of place. All right. It's your client's policy. Trust you more than your own eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22802	Does anyone advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I don't see the basis for the replica. The prime minister only found that certain club heads were not there and nothing more. That's true. Therefore, I see no reason for replication. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22803	The Honorable Chairman, Art. 106 and 107. First of all, I don't think it's right that you didn't give me your word. The Prime Minister addressed himself in a way that is not correct, our own but also other parliamentary clubs. Dear Mr. Dacic, you are the Prime Minister and you should be there and past your exposé. We came here to say what you did wrong, like the government, and what we resent you for, and why you accepted, in a way, that fact by changing more than half of the ministers. They don't owe MPs all the time to sit in benches. A colleague asked me for 15 minutes to drink water and coffee, and you were an hour while Mr. Vukic was speaking during that time, very planned and agreed, therefore, to bring this debate into the night and that our head of the parliamentary group today could not speak and tell you everything that is the fact for this government, and that it was the worst government since 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22804	Does anyone else advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Jovan Palalic, come in. We need to delete the list, so you'll re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22805	Article 107. - a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I think, Mr. Vice President, you should have reacted when the Prime Minister insulted the DSS parliamentary group. In a statement he said, he spoke very harshly of our party. I don't think that's correct. You supported the DSS when it was in power, when our government together made the best results in the previous period and when it comes to economy and when it comes to living standards and it has led one truly realistic policy. What you just said about us is really incorrect, and it really can't be accepted. And that you honor me for being present or not, I am here all the time, Mr. Dacic. I had a short phone call, and I came out so I wouldn't talk, one minute I got out of the O.R. so I wouldn't talk in the O.R. because now the idea is that phone conversations aren't happening in the O.R. One minute. If that's something you can blame the deputy head of the parliamentary group, then it's an honor. I have reported primarily that the DSS is leading a clear, realistic policy, and as far as we were right, from how you probably wanted to honor us around Kosovo, around the EU, about economic policy, time will show who was right and very soon. What you accepted, our party would never accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22806	According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22807	Article 27. The fact is that there is and there should be a dialogue between the prime minister, so whoever is proposing to us the composition of the government and the MPs. Anyway, when I'm in a position to talk directly to the Prime Minister, it's normal for me to be in the O.R. The truth is, I'm in an O.R. and in any other situation, when Mr. Prime Minister answers even to other MPs, not just me. The fact was, perhaps because of that, Mr. Prime Minister, you spoke to me directly, because it was me who pointed out the illogicality, that practically whoever represented himself here for 25 minutes as the Prime Minister, explaining what the government was going to do and what it was planning, it wasn't in the material. The material says that the prime minister of the government's composition is Ivica Dacic, the president. We had a situation where for 25 minutes, someone else took over the role of Prime Minister. In that sense, I asked. I have no problem, and if President Nikolic would give a mandate to someone else to put this together, but right now Mr Dacic has a mandate to propose it. In that sense, I expected that, not only for me or for DS MPs, but for each other, from the LDP, from the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups. It's normal for the Prime Minister to discuss with everyone. In that sense, I am pleased that all other MPs are in a position to discuss with Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22808	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22809	I don't know what I insulted the DSS for saying that Mr. Palalic wasn't in the O.R., as well as Mr. Mikovic. You called me earlier that I wasn't in the O.R., and I thought it was very interesting to mention that at that moment no head of the opposition party's parliamentary club was in the O.R. If that's an insult, I really most sincerely apologize for all that, but it shows that you respond to the one where someone criticizes you very sharply. Are you some "holy cows" here, which no one can ask? Do you have a secure position? You can say anything here. You know what I said, Mr. Shutanovac, I didn't insult anyone. You know what that means, you're an intelligent man. So I was saying, and you know it too well, that no one has a property protected. Please get to the point. If you have so much to criticize this government, get to the point. I'm sitting and waiting and I haven't heard a single review of the government's work, except whether it's in the Rules of Procedure or not. I told you once again, no one has any intention of voting here at night, working at night. We'll work as many days as you think is necessary. Since I've known about myself, the government has always voted against a double debate, and the opposition has always asked for a double debate. That's how you did it, and it's kind of inert. But anyway, as Prime Minister, I'm telling you, I'm ready to listen to every proposal you make, let's hear every criticism. I apologize for, perhaps, the tone you think isn't enough to respect the opposition, but I'm here to hear what was wrong with the government's work. You said this was the worst government since 2000. I don't know how she did what government. It's been shown in all the elections that the government went through. I don't expect you to judge or vote for us. One who doesn't think the same thing isn't a political opponent. I don't know why that kind of heat when someone says otherwise. Why is it so upset that I insulted someone here, that I threatened someone? Mr. Stefanovic says I'm on the ground floor discussing. Mr. Stefanovic, it really is below the level and renomies of one of the head of the parliamentary club such an intellectual once political party, such as DS. I don't think I was so grounded, perhaps, when I raised my hands and voted for your party. I was probably a world intellectual back then because I decided you were in power, not Kostunica and Seselj. It probably didn't look ground floor to you at the time. So if you're already reporting to react to some of my statements, then really use words that aren't offensive. Otherwise you want us to have double arches. I'm not threatening any of you, you know that. I have no reason. I'm not trying to stop any of you from talking. On the contrary, I can't wait for someone to call me and I'm grateful to him and I've been doing it for 20 years. I went to school for this, people. As you know, I was the best student in the history of the Faculty of Political Sciences. If you have any objections and you don't think that's good enough, I don't mind. But some of the discussions I heard on this side of your party are not in line with what your party's vice president, Miodrag Rakic, told us about a new agreement on the strategic goals. Who do you want to make a deal with? Who are you offering a deal to? Have I been to talk about any projects with the president of the SNS, or your president? What arrangements are you talking about? Who are you gonna make deals with? With the U.R.S.? With the DSS? With who? What is the fundamental difference between our concept of society and yours? Do we have any differences? We have differences between the DSS and us, but if the problem is who's in power and who's not in power, that's a side issue. That's why I think it's time you realized that the Resistance time is over. It's resistance time. Now the resistance is raising revolutions across Islamic countries, causing great damage to our country. You wrote the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Konstantinovic. Everything was the way you wanted it to be. You've analyzed everything. Perhaps you've also analyzed how the opposition has as little chance of obstructing. What you've got in mind, now you have to try until this changes. I certainly didn't have any effect on how the government is chosen, whether or not who has the right to speak, who doesn't have the right to speak. I am here and I urge you to move on to a correct discussion and dialogue on topics, because whoever is in power now or in opposition, if we are discussing this, so do you think it's a turnaround, as Ceda Jovanovic would say, a turning point for Serbia? Is that something new? Is this what we bring forth the best quality in us now, or is the people watching us and what they say about all of us? I'm not a Prime Minister. I'm the Prime Minister and as Prime Minister, you know, you know that I've also wanted to talk to you about some things, and we've also talked about the Brussels Agreement. I'm not saying that that's enough, I'm not saying that people in Serbia are not prone to change, or are prone to change until it enters into their interests. But we can't go into change if it's not a common opinion of our entire society. At the moment, the Serbian government acknowledges it or does not have the majority support of Serbian citizens for Serbia's modern, democratic, Europeanised policies. In this you have given your hand to work together without any party differences. There are people sitting in front of you who we haven't chosen yet, and they're not moving from here either, maybe some have repented that they've accepted by listening to what's being said here, and maybe they're asking themselves what they needed. Personally, I think the division of power, more or less, is irrelevant, whether we want a different Serbia or not. Listening to everything we're saying today seems to me like we won't or we have to force it. That's why I want to correct myself and change my entire game. Wait, is the SPS today what it was 20 years ago? Could anyone imagine this policy twenty years ago, and we didn't lose the electoral body? So everything depends on the leader. So I invite you to talk, to dialogue, to correctness, and I apologize if my words have affected anyone, I just wanted to make an ironic finding that you are not present, and you criticized me for not being present. But I won't answer again. You can go out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22810	I ask the Prime Minister to avoid insulting words and particularly addressing individuals in the debate with the MPs. I don't think we're going to contribute to a constructive debate. I really ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in that sense so that we can work in one, let me say, decent environment. I have to delete the list. I'm asking you a little bit, since I have a full list here, first I'm giving it to those who are advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm going to delete the list, so let's make this a deal. First, let the people who want to possibly advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure come forward, then the replica. So, I'm erasing the list and I'm asking, does anyone have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. Anybody got a tail? Okay, I've memorized the order. They go to Jovan Palalic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Don't remember anymore, please when you have a system. We've got a system and we're working normally. There's no need to remember. Otherwise, it's pointless after half an hour to talk about something from an hour ago. ) Mr. Jovanovic, please don't get out of the place. Sign up so I can hear you. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, from the post: I applied for the Rules of Procedure twice. Mr. Jovanovic, I think I've been very specific. If anyone wants a replica to sign up. You didn't sign up for this one now. I think I've been precise. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, from the post: I signed up. ) You didn’t apply now, so I just did it again, because there were a lot of you on the regular application, and the replica, why don’t you follow me. The word is Mr. Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22811	Based on the presentation of the Prime Minister. I don't know if you understood the Prime Minister's problem. So, the problem was that you were expected to attend such an important session as the Minister's proposal that the Prime Minister or at least get a notice from the chairman where the Prime Minister went, because you announced on the basis of your exposé that you would be here and that you were ready to talk. He got the impression from you leaving that you'd never come back again. That's the difference between your position as Prime Minister and the MPs who don't have to be present at all times or can have a phone call and it's okay and it's cultural to come out. On the other hand, I thank you for pointing out the difference between the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia. I think that difference will deepen even after this reconstruction of yours. I think that the difference will be even more visible, because in your exposé you stressed – a stronger path towards European integration, as you have stated here, a fair solution to the Kosovo issue and the related solution to economic problems. There will be neither the accelerated path to the European Union nor, unfortunately, the situation of Serbs and the Serb people will be resolved justly. We will fight in every way possible to bring these agreements and these agreements, which you have achieved in a political way and between citizens and here in parliament, to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22812	The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22813	Mr. Vice President, with the observation that he's really losing his sense of purpose, when he spends so much time, I mean not because of you, as possibly because of the system's imperfection. Do I need two minutes to answer both Mr. Wolf and Mr. Dacic and all the things that have been said here and that are not true? I'd like to ask my colleagues if they could comment a little more. What's the fact is, it's not true that no one here has said anything concrete. The Democratic Party has had as many opportunities as it has, since the debate began, we have asked very specific questions both to Mr. Vukic and you. We didn't get any answers. That's a fact. We got noise and anger. We got a lawsuit. We got things that, of course, when the debate starts, I hope when it continues in some normal direction, that we can talk about the people you brought here to sit between us and what they're going to do specifically in their domains, as unfortunately, Mr. Dacic, we don't know. And that's the same fact. But what shouldn't offend you in any way, I tell you in person, if someone points to the primal argument that you used and everyone knows, both in this room and who saw that it was true. It's not an insult when you say "primary argument." The insult is what you said and the way you spoke to the Democratic Party's MPs. That's not right. We have no such relationship with your MPs, nor with the Serbian Progressive Party. We are all colleagues here and there is no insult, but the fact is that when we asked for your presence, it is not because we do not want to listen to Alexander Vukic, we are pleased to listen to Mr Vukic as much as possible, because he said more specifically than you, but that is your problem and the problem of Serbia, because he took out his exposé after yours, since you were not in the hall. The man spoke more specifically, of course incorrectly, and of course in a very perceptive way, like you, but at least he was more specific, and you didn't do it. That's why we asked you to come, because according to the Rules of Procedure, you should be here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22814	Mr. Sutanovac, I don't think you have the right to a replica. (The People's Messenger Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: by name he mentioned me! Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please allow me to hold a session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22815	Mr. Prime Minister, we have here a classic replacement of thesis. You've come to parliament to ask the MPs. A little bit of a ton works like that. You forgot. You're our guest here, who brought candidates for ministers, has his own exposés, we're questioning you. That's why you're supposed to be here all day. We don't have to. But be aware that the way you imagined it didn't work out that way. On the other hand, how it works, by inventing an attack on me here just now, then the State Agency conveys that text, and now the tabloids are publishing it, as the truth, that I was talking about some night government. So you've made the whole system tabloid in Serbia, in which they follow what you're saying and then adapt to the needs of the authorities. Third thing, I will explain to you what Mr. Vesenovic said that this government is the worst or worst in the 21st century. You yourself spoke of the last government, while you were minister in that government, that it was the best until then. If we look from then to this day at the state of sports, culture, education, agriculture and other segments of life, you'll see that this government is much worse than it was last year. Besides, why would you replace eight ministers if you were satisfied with that government, and you had those same ministers last year and you didn't change them? When you talk about this government, be aware that you came here because you have a bad result, it's not good, it's bad, and we'll talk about what's wrong, and we expect you to tell us how you're going to fix what's wrong, but not by calling the MPs here, telling us about cows, tigers, and I don't know what not, in order to just turn the reality in which we need you to answer. No, you answer to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22816	Replica, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know what, Mr. Dacic, if all the energy you spend in your absolutely private wars with your former coalition partners from different eras, you've spent to convince us that the people you're proposing deserve our support would all be better. It's really hard to admit, not just to humiliate and participate in this deplorable political theater. You've read the exposés, you haven't said a word about the people you're running for ministers. You have read the exposés and you have not said a single word about the policy that has produced the biggest crisis in our society, and the foothold of that policy is in internal misunderstandings within your ruling coalition. I don't want these two minutes to be spent on what I hope will come at a decent time to tell you as head of Parliament, but try to take me very seriously. It is really hard to sit and be so passive about what you must be because of your obligations to the Rules of Procedure and some elemental order here in the Assembly. Half of our group of MPs came out because they couldn't listen to the expressions of love, to you as leaders, who are identical to the love that they expressed to a previous leader and tomorrow to the future. It's not at the level of the moment of the earth. That's what we need to think about. I hope that our actions have not discouraged anyone among these new people who enter politics, and the greatest discouragement is the absence of the willingness of key parties, to assure us why they are the ones who need to take responsibility for such important jobs as they will do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22818	Time, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22819	As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished government officials, I would agree with that part of the Prime Minister's exhibition when it recognises the current social moment that this is in some way, to say the year apart for Serbia. You said there was a bit of a rumor here about concrete criticism, but I think we live in a country where, as everyone knows, trains move at an average speed of 41km an hour, where adequate medical care can only be obtained when you organize a humanitarian concert to provide funds for that care, where drugs are bought at school, and graduation on the street, where it's better to be a fan to come to Belgrade and get a police escort than a pair where you can't come to that same Belgrade, and where you're punished for burning the field after harvesting, but you don't punish the burning of the mosque. I think it's the country we're living in right now, and maybe we could agree, if it's all the fault of the current government or some of the previous ones, we can discuss it. This is what Serbia is in this sense at the crossroads, and I think that we are ahead of the election whether we are going to become part of a European family or remain the appendix of Europe, and in this sense we understand you best, because Vojvodina has always been part of a Central European space in both political and economic and cultural terms and was based on the values on which today's Europe is based, such as Enlightenment and Antifascism, and these values were represented by Dositej Obradović and Jovanovic Dragon to a large extent, and a little less Alexander Rankovic or Voja Tankosic and Vojvodina is now largely what it was two hundred years ago in cultural and political terms. I certainly welcome the courage of new candidates for ministers to put their biographies in the service of a new reconstructed government, but we must express a certain skepticism, because the only prism through which we will look at the work of this future government is the attitude towards Vojvodina. This relationship so far has not been the way we would like it to be for understandable reasons, largely because the parties that are in power today in Belgrade see Vojvodina in a different way than we do from there. Every time so far as we know, the promises made in terms of the province's status have been betrayed. I'll just list some examples. We are witnessing that agriculture is in a catastrophic state, otherwise we would not have pairs trying to smuggle into Belgrade. Infrastructure is falling apart and some of Podkin's tunnels are promising under Fruska's mountain as the helmets land people in the yard, so citizens are forced to self-organize and block roads. Unemployment is almost 30%. Efforts to eliminate everything that has the omens – Vojvodina; from Elektrovodina to the Academy of Science and Radio Television of Vojvodina, 7% of the budget would not even mention, since it is not respected again, nor from the most developed region of the former Yugoslavia today we are the least developed region of Serbia. In that sense, we will also observe the work of this new reconstructed government, and through a relationship with what we see as the Vojvodina as it could be, we will base our views. I agree in one part of your exposé, you mentioned that there is a need to reduce the level of development, i.e. underdevelopment between different regions in the country, and that all should develop evenly, but not the way in which we will all be poorer. Belgrade on the water, whatever the project is called, is certainly wonderful, but the rest of Serbia is under water in the meantime and I think it must be recognised in some way that there are a large number of undeveloped environments and outside Belgrade that should be given an adequate level of attention, the level of people who will be sitting in your future government. The problems the future ministers face are extremely large, Serbia is an extremely centralised country and I think the level of detail the ministers are dealing with is startling. Many of them can't even dream of what they're going to face, and such problems can't be solved in four years, and not six months as long as I think their mandates are going to last, given that there's a lot of talk that we're going to have elections in March, I'm not a political analyst, but according to the information I have, I'm increasingly believing it's largely true. It's a good thing economic policy is what it pays attention to. You pointed out that there are a number of economic problems you have to face, but if we're going to sell Telecom, if we're going to start aircraft companies that are going to be hard to be profitable, considering that even a much bigger airline around the world is falling apart. If we're going to share subsidies to investors just because it's coming to Serbia, because it's cheap labour and cheap energy, I don't think you had to reconstruct the current government. It's good to develop you say competitiveness and innovation, but I don't know how we're going to do it in a country where the percentage of people with higher education is 6%, the European average is 25%. When we see some concrete measures in terms of improving relations in the region, really working honestly on European integration, making up some kind of agrarian strategy and locating adequate funds for the development of agriculture. We will welcome such activities in every way. As for concrete candidates for ministers, I sincerely hope, as well as my parliamentary group, that, for example, Mr Krstic will be able to finally explain to the citizens of Serbia that it is not a harrassor but a tax that needs to be given certain services and to build a certain infrastructure, rather than the Tax Administration being a state in the country. I sincerely hope that Mr. Udovic will succeed in making this sport more than just an instrument for young people to leave Serbia and for stadiums to be used to gather drug distributors. I hope Mr. Glamocic can at least provide adequate anti-urban protection to farmers, not every time we look into the sky when we need to predict economic growth. I hope that Mr. Mirovic, who is not from Belgrade, but from Vojvodina, will understand the importance of the existence of rural institutions and that local self-governments are in extremely difficult condition. I hope that Mr. Radulovic will be able to recognise the need to help the real sector, which is currently hostage to banks and before collapse, since 30% of the total assets in banks are non-chargeable and that Mr. Tasovac is in addition to being the minister of culture and the minister of information, that he will manage to save public services that, at least as far as TV is concerned, are in the face of shutting down. Until we see, in any case, some concrete results, we will not support the government and the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina will remain a constructive opposition in this regard, and we wish new candidates much happiness in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22820	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22821	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, what I said a few days ago couldn't begin differently, in my opinion, is that the debate about the government has really happened in the last year and that I'm not using these great words of history right now, but major political changes. It is not essential who participates in the government and who is the opposition in Serbia, it is important what happened to our ability to make some important and important steps in life change. These years, it's been a year that a consensus has been established on one important thing, I think the key and the MP club of the ZZ thinks it's a key thing. Citizens who voted for five-six people's representatives, members of this parliament, voted in favour of going to the EU and this is a major change compared to 13 or 14 months ago. About the most important state issue, we are no longer a divided nation. The assumption of that is a deal that you, Mr. Dacic, signed with Thaci in Brussels. The ZZS MP club supported the deal, as did all MPs, except for the MPs of a significant parliamentary group here in parliament. I think the state has done a good thing because it has opened up our citizens in Kosovo the prospect of winning political space in the circumstances that they are and that is why it is important that the more people go to elections now in November of the month. This fact is now the starting point of trying to make a consensus on other things, and that's where the point is starting, a consensus that can be established to create a big initiative in economics or economic policy and a significant initiative in foreign policy. As far as foreign policy is concerned, I think it would be important, it could also be crucial, that as a country we appear as someone who has a clear vision and a proposal that this should look like a region of Southeast Europe, what the Western Balkans should look like, and that we discuss this with both Albania and Bosnia and Macedonia, and with Montenegro, and to represent ourselves as someone who is capable of being a leader. I sincerely believe that until we create an initiative that can basically have a proposal to harmonize agricultural policy, a proposal for harmonisation and transport policy, a proposal for harmonisation and industrial policy, that this region will have much more trouble without it than with us all joining the EU together. Well, when the Germans and the French were able to agree on coal and steel after World War II and establish a basis for what the EU is today, a political creation that has a consensus that it is good to go into it, I don't see why Belgrade and Tirana would not agree on how much subsidies are given for what in agriculture or with Macedonia to agree on. I think it would help the citizens of Serbia, to help two and a half million people dealing with agriculture, to open up the possibility of more money investing here and not having to go individually, as some of us have heard here and bringing investors with their amazing abilities, but to make it a general place because this region will make it safer. Unfortunately, I don't see one such initiative in this exposé that you've brought here, Mr. President, and that's too bad. I believe the basis for such an initiative is the consensus in this assembly and in Serbian politics, at least as we have achieved around Kosovo. For such things, it always takes the government to give the initiative. It will be difficult for the opposition to give an initiative around which national policy can be established. Then we come to life and that big topic that, as far as I can see, the reconstruction happened, which is economic policy. To be honest, I can't quite figure out who it was to get Mladjan Dinkic out of the government, who wasn't up for it, but I see you'll all vote for it. What is a fact is that you all concluded that economic policy was not good, that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy did not produce such changes in life as you expected at the end of July, when parliament voted the new government. Mr. Prime Minister, I read this carefully. It doesn't take too much time for exposés. I don't see a major strategic initiative for a new economic policy in what you have presented in parliament. Mr Krstic announced a quarter or twenty days ago that in these days, which are behind us, he will come out not only with an economic plan or a proposal for economic policy, but that he will come out with a vision of Serbia in the next five or ten years. I believe he had an idea to do it, but something happened, as far as I can tell, in these 15 days, so we don't have that vision in your exposé today. There are slight hints and mild hints. Will you raise the profit tax? That's how I understood what the exposé said. Will the property tax be increased? It seems to me from what you said here was an idea. Will VAT be increased? Taxes on consumption are value added tax. It's in the exposé. Apriori, nothing has to be bad, like nothing in itself is good, but it's a shame we didn't get a clear picture of what you think you're doing with the economy today. You really gave a very sharp assessment of the state of the economy, much sharper than anyone in the opposition. My belief is that it's also a matter that, until we have a consensus, it's hard to do anything. It's too politically expensive for anyone and for your government, as was expensive for the government where you were deputy president. Before that, there were other economic times. In 2006, it is neither like 2009 nor this year, because in the world the economy has changed and it does not depend on us. I am deeply convinced that the assumption of a change in economic policy, of creating a fundamental chance of doing something in the economy to make big steps in the public sector, in the pension system, under one, and in everything that represents administration, public service and public enterprises, under two. The vast majority of people sitting here in parliament, except for new people who are candidates for ministers, have been in politics for a long time. We've all been in state affairs for a long time, and we all know how hard this is. I believe it's impossible to change things in a pension system without consensus. Mr Dacicu, you mentioned - a new economic policy. Here, I support what Miodrag Rakic said most in an article several months ago. You can make a decision not to. I'm afraid the most likely thing is that nothing capital will happen unless we start dealing with these things. Where's the road, anyway? I am deeply convinced that we are using what is our national resource. That's where you gave one hint, but nothing more than that. The state of Serbia owns 800,000 hectares of land. Here's a good thing for the new Minister of Agriculture. A million hectares of forest is owned by the Republic of Serbia. There are estimates that four billion euros, here is something for Mr Bacevic, together for the Minister of Agriculture and him and Mrs Mihajlovic, Energy Minister, four billion euros in biomass per year in Serbia, fall due to poor forest maintenance and because they burn after harvesting and after harvesting. One of the key things about our economy that's a problem is that our external trade deficit is huge because we have a deficit in the balance of current payments. The largest item in that deficit is the oil and gas we import. I don't see that there's a plan to use that resource, just like with state land. It can also be debated whether to put state land to offer to farmers from Serbia with favourable loans, to buy what some MPs are representing here, or to open a space for people who will certainly appear as some kind of technological surplus in the administration and public sector, to go with favourable loans to agricultural production and fruit and vegetables. When the budget rebalancing proposal was here, I asked why no irrigation plans were made. It takes four, fivem euros to draw and do everything necessary by the end of the year for those who are capable of doing so in Serbia, the institutes, those who do so. We can enter 2014 with irrigation projects for irrigation and disposal systems, which are between 150m and 200m euros, another 150m euros for the secondary network and all that is needed for each individual parcel and field, that is 350m euros. That's 1% of gross social product. It's the fourth time we've talked about it in 13 months. For the future agriculture minister, it will also be an important topic to set towards 1,600 or 1,700 agronoms. Many of them must have been his students in Novi Sad, who were disengaged, lost their engagement somewhere last year. My belief is it's almost impossible to establish communication with 450 or 600,000 agricultural owners unless anyone in front of the state is able to communicate with them. It can't be done by 20 people, 200 people, it has to be done by more than a thousand people. I don't know how to call you Mr. Minister's candidate, think about it. It's part of the policy Together for Serbia. It would be a big deal if it came back and we had more effective state communication with that part of our economy where the largest number of people are involved. Serbia today produces food worth 10.5 billion euros. The Netherlands is one-third bigger than Vojvodina. Two years ago, the Netherlands exported 63 billion dollars in food, 17 billion euros in flowers exported to Holland. Someone here has said, and is wrong, that Greece is better for agricultural food production than Serbia. Fortunately, that's not true. Serbia's potential is 100 billion euros. To raise agricultural production, the country must be under irrigation systems, millions and 100,000 hectares. People have to have professional help and assistance. It's a matter of state. It's all private property in America. Private companies are producing nuclear weapons. One of the several functions or things in the jurisdiction of the state is the agricultural professional service, in the jurisdiction of the federal state, because it is a matter of national security. That's how it's supposed to be in Serbia, and that's how strong this world that's finished high school and with you, Mr. Professor, and here in Zemun, is getting engaged so we can raise the profits of people who do agriculture. The poorest part of the people, two and a half million people, with poverty twice the size of the rest of the population. It's an economic issue, a political issue, it's a question of the country's stability. Unfortunately, I cannot see from this the existence of a major initiative in economic policy from this exposé. It's a good thing he's here, "Etyhad," great. If it turns out that we're going to be able to do it, 50m euros that will be saved in the budget, it's a big deal. We said that here in the Assembly, we all think that together, as many of us as there are in our Parliament club, that it's a good thing that Al Dahra came. It's not very popular for one opposition party to say that, because it's not very much the enthusiasm of the people of Vojvodina, especially about that thing, but it's good and I can't say that it's not good for something I'm sure it can make serious progress. As for Etyhad, it is very important that we have a clear idea whether or not we have an open sky problem and with our partners in the EU, such as Al Dahra, is valuable and important for all property issues to be resolved as soon as possible. It is a matter of state and government and it is a matter of seriousness, not only of you as members of the government but of the entire state and of this parliament, which is the cornerstone of Serbia's political system. Behind these initiatives that I've been talking about, I think it's really coming -- the sooner the better. It is the cornerstone of politics together for Serbia. Serbia is not a well-organised country. It is not possible to have strong development while every citizen of Serbia, whether he lives, Mr Dacic, in your Žitorajja or in Subotica, here on Vrakar or in my Sapac, does not have the same capacity for political rights. See the list, in the last ten years, the number of residents in Belgrade, Novi Sad and in the space between Belgrade and Novi Sad has increased. The population has been reduced everywhere. In your neighborhood in Kursumlia there are 85 villages, of which in 53 let no one but fly, now they will disintegrate when the cattle are driven out into the pasture. When we move to Karaburma over water, 70,000 people don't even have a local community. The first power is the president of the Karaburma municipality, which has no authority whatsoever, since the mayor has less and less in his hands. It's hard for these things to trigger people's energy. Our proposal is – each local community has its budget, eight, 10 or 12 thousand points in Serbia that need to have some kind of decision so that people know that they decide the things that matter most to them. It's the only way millions of citizens can open up an opportunity to get into public life. Only by my conviction can Serbia be triggered. The impulse must be given by the government. Unfortunately, it's not in this exposé, and that pulse has to start from the bottom. If we ever get close, then we'll have a chance to vote for some other exposés, now we'll be against your proposals for new members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22822	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22823	Since you called me first of all on biomass, and first of all for the citizens of Serbia, because you're talking about four billion that are lost annually because biomass is not being used, just to remind you of a few things that have been done over the past year and what has not been done before for 10 years. To begin with, these are the first sublegal acts, which is why no one lives in Serbia could even use that bio mass, nor for the production of electricity and heat, and this ministry did. Last year in December, we were here in parliament together, we amended the first law, then passed a sublegal act waiting four years for renewable energy sources to be used at all. The Regulation on preferential prices was then adopted, for the first time and heat. For the first time, biomass and cogenerative plants were placed in that regulation. That wasn't even in the plan. A national action plan for the use of renewable energy sources has been adopted. You have a big opening that happened maybe a month or two ago in Subotica, and about the biomass heat in Subotica from the KFF program. A plan has been put in place to heat in Serbia, with 57 starting to use biomass. All of this is something we've been informed of for the past few months, which was done in the domain of that biomass where you mention billions, but it can't suddenly. Ten years from now, those who haven't been done in a year can't be fixed. The basis that anyone can invest and use renewable energy sources is that there is a legal and sublegal regulation. It didn't happen to exist on purpose. It exists now. The very important thing is that in eastern Serbia, which is rich in forest, which you know very well because you were Minister of Agriculture, a centre for renewable energy sources opens, where the first thing to do is to use biomass. Serbia can make money on that, it can provide sufficient amounts of electricity and heat, and that is, the ministry's plan, which I have been talking about for the past year. I'll inform you one more time, so when you talk about that nothing happened, here's just a couple of information to let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22824	The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22825	Madam Minister, I didn't say nothing was done. I'm saying it's not in the exposé. You say here what you're going to do for the next three years. How many kilowatt hours of electricity will be produced from biomass in the next year and the next three years? How many kilowatts of hot water in heat will be produced in a year and three years? When you come here in a year, let's ask you why it wasn't done or let's tell you -- well done, you've moved things forward. If we import a million tons of oil, I think there's a Bajatovic, 600 billion cc's of gas, how much can it be converted from biomass? Is it or is it not an external trade deficit one of the key things in our economic policy and problems? Let's do something to change it, because they're ours in the woods, and what's going on in the fields after harvest and after harvesting, is also ours, and it opens up the opportunity for farmers to make extra money. My remark is not what you did or didn't do, but why in this exhibition, which we're voting on, voting for new members of the government, there's no number statement of what you're going to do over the next three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22826	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22827	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, fellow MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, who believe you are watching this transfer, will not speak for long on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, because if I speak for a long time and if I speak briefly, everyone knows that NS MPs will support the government of the Republic of Serbia, or its reconstruction. I would like to point out, in particular, several facts and moments that will cause the NS's sincere and strong MPs to support this reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to us that new criteria have been established in political practice in the way of governance. I could characterise that the government and leaders of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are making a reconstruction of nothing, at first sight, secure support in parliament, most secure and every day growing support for citizens in Serbia, but it is obviously an old way of thinking and an old way of ruling. If those who have so much support from Serbian citizens and parliament want to change half of the government, and I want to say personally that many ministers who have been resolved this time, or who have resigned, have not done bad work, but with this procedure wants to show the citizens of Serbia that all of us, both political parties and parliament and government, really in the coming period we have to do a lot to make this government even more successful and that the broad layers of Serbian citizens feel better. I can say that as a national MP and citizen, I am satisfied with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia so far, but also with the heads of our government and we as MPs and citizens of Serbia, I believe, will be even more pleased when that grace is felt on the wider layers of Serbian citizens. I would like to say, and I would like to make a small recommendation, when MPs and politicians and ministers address each other, that everyone in Serbia is living badly, it is not true. We have to say who lives badly in Serbia. There are layers of citizens and a good number of citizens living better than they are living in the most developed Western countries, and that is because we recognize these layers of citizens and help them survive this crisis that is still not going through, both in our country and in Europe. In addition to voting strongly and supporting new members of the government, or future ministers sitting here in front of us and Serbian citizens, I would dare to make a few proposals to some ministers. When it comes to agriculture, we all know and we all swear to the village and the peasants and we know that this is a branch of the economy through which our country could first make and win and general progress. As future minister, Mr. Glamočić, I would suggest, and he knows his plans and programmes, that his first work assignment might be visited by Shumadi, who suffered from the city these days, a peasant who in two days had to collect the fruits of his work, not to say blood and sweat. Elemental disasters have made it impossible and they don't even know how they're going to live for the next year. I would ask you, if you can get out of the Ministry of Agriculture, I think the Prime Minister will agree with that, to return the anti-building protection to the Ministry of Agriculture's vault, although our municipalities and cities, such as Topola, such as Cachak, from their own budgets, may also be illegally acquiring anti-building missiles, but I think the state must make some savings and that anti-building protection will finally be effective. When it comes to finance, everything I say will depend on finance. I want to tell Mr Krstic that the NS MPs will have strong support, that we will vote and that when we do not like something, when it is painful, but we must get strong confidence that in the coming period it will be better for the citizens of Serbia. Reading these days what you said, I strongly support the respect of financial discipline, that everyone pays taxes, but I hope there will be some changes and additions to tax laws in the coming period. I'm not trained to talk about it in detail, but it seems to me that the same percentage of taxes cannot be paid by those who earn millions and tens of millions of euros and those who earn just as much to survive. So, this social moment in achieving tax policy, that is, tax collection, that is, charging the state register, since there is obviously a hole in it, I hope it will be fairer in the next period. When it comes to sports, I think a proposal, such as the proposal for Mr Vanju Udovicic, has not caused as much sympathy as the proposal for his appointment as the Minister of Sports and Youth. I want him to be half as successful as he was as an athlete. Let me tell you, Mr. Widow, I can name you any village in the Chacan municipality, we can build a pool in that village, we can bring you, Filip and the others, and they'll be the champions of the state. What do I want to tell you? I expect you to fight it. It seems to me that Mr. Vukic has said that some of the laws will come from your ministry, and it concerns the privatisation of our largest clubs. Please influence as much as you can in some way, if possible, mass school sports are more funded. It is clear that Belgrade is in every area, including sports, the metropolis, and it will always be and we respect it. It's the capital of our country. But there's a lot of sport and great talent in the interior, so you pay attention to them and get rid of them, if it's possible to finance that so-called funding. Amateur sport, because that's where our greatest athletes came from. As far as culture is concerned, I can also say that the proposal for Mr. Tasovac caused, at least for those people I'm hanging out with, and maybe they're not lovers of the art that he represents here, but they respect what he did with the Belgrade Philharmonic, and I don't talk much, I don't know how many people will understand, but I believe that you, Mr. Tasovac, will understand - the dot point, we want to do it in Casca, we want to do it in Uzica. We're not just lovers of Dragacheva trumpet and cooked cabbage, which is what we're proud of. We know what's nice. From our city is one of the biggest opera singers this country has ever given. I don't know how you're going to do it with 0.63% that was out for culture. I hope there's money to be at least 1.63%. We also want to tell you the same thing, we are aware that Belgrade is the metropolis, that the largest cultural institutions and firms are, so to speak, in Belgrade and it will be, but there is no reason not to be in Užica, Čačka, Leskovac, Kralje and some even smaller places. So decentralisation and culture and distribution of funds to some better days when we will have more money for all together. I'd like to give you a personal message from the citizens of Serbia here -- if you stay in that jury, you'll be a little stricter, if you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22828	Thank you. National MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22829	The Honored President, Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected candidates for the reconstruction of the Serbian government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the SPS has expressed satisfaction that we are in the final phase of the Serbian government's reconstruction, which has been working for a year now. To be honest, we really tried to get a little earlier exposé from the Prime Minister, but since this was not the case, unlike many participants, my colleagues and colleagues in this discussion, I can say that we really listened very carefully today for the first time today, for the first time, to the Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. But in the form of criticism and arguments our colleagues from opposition clubs made, it can be seen that opposition political parties have not yet absorbed what was Prime Minister Dacic's inaugural exposé. The kind of arguments that we've had today to hear talk about a kind of criticism I'd dare call a political recycling of arguments that have been recognizable since the '90s. That is why she would like to remind them of the original settings of Prime Minister Dacic's exhibition a year ago, which gave solid indicators of an economic policy that could lead to Serbia's crisis in the long term. In 2012, Prime Minister Dacic asked a specific question. He said we all need to talk openly about how Serbia is today, what Serbia we want and what a "Serbian dream" we want to dream about. This "Serbian dream", it does not have some national-ethnic connotation, it is modelled by that expression of "American dream". So, what is this future that we can gather around and agree on? I would also, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and our coalition partners, dare to compliment President Dacic and Deputy Prime Minister Vucic, and to realize that this very reconstruction testifies to the fact that the two have indeed managed to bring together a broad coalition within Serbia that does not only follow the logic of political parties. So it's precisely the engagement of extra-party personalities, those people who lived and were born in Serbia, who were educated in Serbia and those who went abroad and achieved exceptional successes, whether in the area of economics, whether in the field of education, or personal study, whether our respected athletes or cultural workers, who are actually the best ambassadors of Serbia, that is why I see this reconstructed government as one broad coalition. The two leaders of this ruling coalition have indeed proved that they are in a position to reach consensus. In his inaugural exposé, Prime Minister Dacic said he wants to gather and unite Serbia's most private people. He is exactly and one of his first moves was to gather the National Council for Economic Recovery, therefore, people who do not have that party membership, because we need to take seriously the way we talk about the biggest problems in our country. In this earlier exposé, or inaugural, President Dacic made it clear what our comparative advantages are. He pointed out that it was agriculture, in this way even the opposition party colleague Mr. Petrovic spoke, it's the food industry, it's the infrastructure, it's energy. And today, and you haven't noticed it because you didn't want to listen to your colleagues from opposition ranks carefully, for comparative advantages, the automotive industry is listed for a year, as well as information technologies. I would also like to remind you that President Dacic, the Prime Minister of the United States, has recently travelled to the United States and has called on investors from precisely this area of information technologies to come and invest in Serbia. What we have really succeeded as the ruling coalition, namely my colleagues and colleagues who are in the position of ministers, is to change the idea of Serbia. Serbia really is good news for the first time in maybe two decades. Experts dealing with the country's ratings say – the moment you manage to raise and fix your party rating by at least 10%, you can expect 11% of tourists to increase the inflow of foreign direct investment. That's exactly the dictionary, and that's the parameters we need to consider when we're talking about economics and when we're talking about politics. The type of arguments and counter-arguments coming from opposition lines also testify, as I have already said, about one disorientation and one lack of an alternative programme. Perhaps our key sin is that this ruling coalition has managed to speed up the processes started by some other people from other political parties, our political opponents and competitors, but indeed within a year are key problems, and this is about resolving the problem of Kosovo that has been going on for three decades since 1981, and the problem of European integration has been significantly accelerated. Within a year, the ruling coalition was able to get a date for the start of negotiations. I remind you that the SAA was signed in 2008 and that a member of the government, from the opposition party now, is simply unhappy with the speed, that is, the slowness at which Serbia cannot win the bid, has resigned. We do not have a problem with saying that we have taken over some points of your programme, but we are very pleased that we have had the courage, that our leaders had the courage to really enter the dialogue on resolving the Kosovo issue, which very quickly raised technical dialogue to the level of political dialogue and that indeed, in this way the prime minister said today in this revised exposé, they managed to achieve Serbia as a respectable and respected partner who holds the word. Serbia really is respected for the first time in this way. It was the most common remark from other countries, that Serbian politicians promised not to execute what was promised or do the opposite. In this exhibition are one concrete economic programme, and these are also concrete indicators for which the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, is in charge, concrete figures that say that a campaign, a major campaign, a broad campaign against corruption and crime has indeed won a major wave. Indeed, everyone in Serbia appreciates it as a great success and concrete figures are listed. Now when you compare the exposures in the last maybe ten years, perhaps Kostunica's government, Kostunica's exposé, or Mr Cvetkovic's exposé, you see that there aren't many figures, or there are a lot of sentences, but here it has really gone from words to deeds, and these are concrete figures and concrete indicators to be mentioned. I would also say that in this coalition that truly appreciates knowledge, and which really appreciates education, which really appreciates the successes that, say, the drunk athletes or our cultural workers achieve abroad, we cannot give up what we may or may not have, which is education. Do not provoke us with some political arguments, to avoid discussion on serious topics and to talk about these serious topics with concrete numbers and concrete indicators. It is high time to raise the quality of political discourse in Serbia. We can learn a lot about the topic in European politics. This may be the key dispute whether we will have an economy of savings or we will have an economy of growth and development or the economy of fostering consumption, and it is a key discourse in the German elections, from our political partners in Europe we can learn a lot, so all together, this particular government made up of experts, from politicians will be able to improve the quality of political discourse and talks on economic issues. We really need to stop talking about the economy in a political dictionary and that any economic interest, any unions, any workers, any employers, are afraid of political colors. In that sense, and what we have as institutional mechanisms, which have not yet been brought to life, such as the economic and social council, such as the three-way dialogue between the government, employers and unions, we really need to liven up. Therefore, on behalf of the SPS, I do indeed express a great faith in people who are not party-bound, because they invest their knowledge and this critical knowledge and that at no time descend to the level of dialogue used by our political opponents, but to impose a much more high-quality, much more serious way of thinking and way of talking about these topics. So let other people, who are not so educated, who simply don't know what European policy or world policy topics are, be in the sphere of economics, or in some other spheres, adapt themselves, read much more. I would also remind you that President Dacic quoted John Maynard Canes in his inaugural exposé. He said that we have a powerful one, in fact, when he talked about the problems of the great depression at the beginning of the century, he used the expression that there was a powerful economic or economic machinery, but that the problem was how to start it? In the case of Serbia, we have one rusty economic machinery, an economic machinery. We remember times, and today when you travel through Serbia and you ask people who are the best times for you, they say in the '80s, so that last decade of socialism with a human character, or state socialism, or time of social agreement. So, this economy has simply been frustrating in the 1990s, and since 2000, it has simply become rusty. So that was the key problem this year, and that's why we've adopted amendments to the Ministry Act, because one person, so to speak, was one minister in charge of both finance and economics. I know it's a custom in both Western Europe and developed countries, but he simply couldn't concentrate on the problems of the budget deficit, to restart that rusty economic or economic machinery. So when I look at the composition, especially when I'm reading the biographies of these people who are candidates at this point for these extremely responsible, extremely difficult resistors, I really have one big dose of optimism. Their biographies are really brilliant. Their biographies send one message to children, students, students, that it really pays to invest in knowledge. Some of my colleagues, here are mentioned different forms of communication, yet the 21st century, some of you, some of the candidates for ministers, are using these social networks. Politics is not as much talked about through Facebook as Twitter, and I can really say that they are such sparks, sparks in conversation, but simply there is no solution, and we need to talk about economics and politics with extremely serious, extremely professional arguments. I am convinced that precisely these experts entering the government and experts will provoke a new quality of economic discourse in Serbia. So we can't discuss politics and economy the way it's discussed in the papers. Now, let me not underestimate my fellow journalists or colleagues, so I can tell the tabloid newspapers, but Serbia and we politicians and economists and experts need to get serious, send a new message to Europe and the world. That is why the moment these more active EU membership negotiations begin, it will turn out that many of us politicians, whether in power or in opposition, do not know the dictionary of modern politics in Europe. Perhaps some of us will be in the future members of the European Parliament and then will only see how much we have not invested in our own education in these 20 years, because education is not a commodity, education is a big investment and no one here has yet calculated, and usually counts on how much brain drain costs, how much ignorance costs. Ignorance and ridicule of knowledge is a major and serious problem in Serbia. So, the SPS expresses one satisfaction that the reconstruction was done, however long it lasted, in this way, which the government's reconstruction comes at the moment when the new phase of the talks entered, the historic phase of the Kosovo problem, which has been painfully solved in the past three decades, which has opened the door for Serbia to Europe, which is our athletes, which our cultural followers are truly appreciated in the world, which politicians from Serbia are truly respected and appreciated both in Washington and in Moscow and in Beijing, especially in Brussels. So it's a new era and a new phase and we don't need to miss that third historic chance right now. If we Socialists missed that chance in the '90s, because then we were in power, if the former DOS members missed that chance from 2000 to 2012, I hope this government, composed of experts and people from the world and people from the profession, won't miss that chance, because we don't have any more time. The Socialist Party of Serbia and I, on behalf of the SPS, are very pleased to support all proposed candidates for ministerial posts in the reconstructed Serbian government and in voting day, we will give full support to this reconstructed government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22830	Let me just congratulate you and express my satisfaction that we have a lady as president of the parliamentary group again, and I hope we have more. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22831	Mr. President, I'm afraid you may have been caught up with my report. It's magical that all those previous reports aren't recorded. I volunteered to speak as head of the parliamentary group, not because of the replica. I think there was a problem with the system, at least that's what they told me. So I have no reason to argue with the head of the parliamentary group. I answered because it was my previous turn. It's a fixed rule. (President: It's okay, just keep going. Mr. Dacic, I hope now is the time for a more concrete conversation. I'm not going to say that all of what we said earlier during these, more or less, extorted polemics was inconclusive, but it certainly wasn't the answer to those fundamental questions that our society faces today. First, Mr. Dacic, you and Mr. Vukic, who later spoke after you, did not answer a key question that must be answered during the debate over the election of new members of the government. Why did you decide to reconstruct? In your exposé, I don't think that's understatement, you said that you chose the widest, most extensive reconstruction in the recent history of our political life without being forced into such a thing by the pressures of the opposition. Maybe from your perspective it looks that way. Especially if you are making the difference between the opposition that exists here in parliament and the opposition that is equally visible within your ruling coalition, since it is a traditional division in Serbia, not in power and opposition, but in enemies. It seems to me that you have bigger problems politically with your coalition partners than with any opposition party. This is not because there are some special arrangements between, say, your parties and the Liberal Democratic Party, but primarily because we have a sense of what we have so far tried to describe as a public interest, well, these were the motives that moved us in previous years, in an effort to convince the majority of both the Assembly and Serbia that the path that is moving is not the way to find their happiness. It never occurred to us that in your performances, not only in your own, but also in all the representatives of your ruling coalition, we are looking for less or more of the skillful quotes that we have been making, for years describing the Serbia we live in, describing the Serbia we want to create, criticising what is wrong in it, supporting what is good. But today, Mr. Dacic, after six months, in which the government was far more concerned with itself than anything else in the country, you are obliged to say what you have even entered into reconstruction. If you don't say it, then it will be left to us to analyze and draw some of our conclusions. It's arbitrary, and in this time we have no right to it. The second question, so when you answer why you've defined yourself right now for reconstruction -- on which criteria has it been implemented? Because you concluded that maybe some policy was wrong, and then you decided to change your policy and you were aware that those who had implemented this wrong policy couldn't change, so as you or Mr. Vukic, which we support, we don't condemn it, but they just can't. On what criteria did you propose 11 new ministers? I think we'll agree on one fact, which is that in this time in which we live today, it's crucial to the elemental order of society, the trust that citizens should have in people and institutions, who decide on their fate. Trust comes from personal seriousness. Does it seem serious enough to you, Mr. Dacic, when you propose to us in reconstruction, without reason of reconstruction and guidance of the criteria, 11 new ministers most of whom have nothing to do with the work that will start working tomorrow? I'm very careful here. I'm not saying they're not capable of doing it, they just haven't done it yet. It may be great and we will also help, because we do not see our interest in the total collapse of finance, in an even greater percentage of the companies that are in bankruptcy or pre-fashion process, we do not see our interest in the collapse of privatisation, but in its re-affirmation, we do not see our interest in the collapse of the Belgrade Philharmonic, when the director comes to the place of the culture minister, but in the expansion of that mentality established there on some other institutions, but it is not enough for such a serious performance as must be the performance of the Prime Minister who is seeking support for his policy. We make the biggest speeches when words lose every sense. We talked best about Kosovo on February 2008 when Pristina declared independence. Back then, we had the most sense for mistakes in the past. You're talking about lost battles now. But we must remind you that, despite all the support you have, not in solving this Kosovo problem, but in trying that this society is facing what is the real picture of Kosovo and the relationship between Kosovo and Serbia, that it is not enough. That's why we have a problem with the Kosovo elections today. We have always supported our people in Kosovo and asked him to participate in the elections. Now that you're trying to organize them, you often do it the way other leaders, in Croatia or Bosnia, have done it, looking for some of their Martice, Babice, Egyptians. The key question for this country now is not to extract from the hats of some individuals who will save us with their brilliant personal biographies. Everything that has succeeded in Serbia has succeeded despite Serbia. We didn't find some talented guy in Nis and said you'd go to the best university and then you'd go back to the country to be her minister. We didn't help Tasovec survive in the Philharmonics, but he did it despite his surroundings. We didn't make him a world champion in the wind polo, we couldn't get them a pool, premiums to pay them, tickets on a decent plane to buy them, to come back and sleep on a plane, not travel across the world and play a game tomorrow. The key question is the question of our ability to look at ourselves and tell us what we really are, and you're throwing us out of the opposition over your shoulder. That's not enough. You must tell us tonight – on what criteria is your cabinet being built today? Meanwhile, Serbia could see that we were right when we were on the night of July 2012, not saying the night because the night government, but then we talked, said it wasn't enough for Serbia to form a ruling coalition on principle -- let's see Boris Tadic and DS back. When was the issue of reconstruction of the ruling coalition updated? When it became tight for all of you, when one party within the ruling coalition came to support the citizens she had never had before, she sought space for herself. There is a feeling in Serbia and this should be faced, that it is not normal for the Prime Minister to be from a party that does not have such convincing support in society as there is another party in the ruling coalition. To overcome this problem, why not apply to yourself what you suggest to all of Serbia, which is fine? Why don't you respect the principle of solidarity? Is there solidarity between you and me? If she's not in the government, why would she be in the company? And if there is, then what we see is not the solidarity that Serbia needs. It seems to us that one of the MPs of the ruling majority here has said the essence, commenting on this delay and delay in the candidates of the ministers from your party - we will not interfere with them in their choice, they are not us in ours. Do you know where the problem is? It may be party logic, but you said it yourself – you are the Serbian government's president. You didn't leave room here for us. How can we support you, except that we go back to some consultations when the water comes over our heads, and then we say, yes, it's not the Minister of Finance's fault that we can't spend what we're not creating anymore, it's not the Minister of Economy's fault that we can no longer pay for companies that don't create anything, and we pay them not to rebel, it's not the Minister for Regional Development that we don't have a state. We haven't created it yet, we have no idea about it, and it seems to me that the president of your party is speaking occasionally. Can we get out of this exposé, this is the second exposé, so you called it, the second big speech and the program performance of your government, to figure out what our country's goal is? Shall we go to NATO, Mr. Dacic? We can't sneak in there. We're not going to join NATO because NATO bombed us, but NATO will protect Serbs in northern Kosovo better than us. That's why we have a problem. We want foreign investors? Here, you count, Vice President, all the names, I have nothing to add, let each of them come. Is there a rule here that can be passed along with them? Can we establish these rules here in our society? Maybe they'd become competitive then. Do we want to fight corruption and crime? I don't know any politician who's gonna say he doesn't want to. But with this fight against corruption and crime comes something we shouldn't ignore, which is a kind of atmosphere that today, in this time, establishes those rules that once existed and that cost us dearly now, so it would be good to avoid them. Each era had one of its own on-call culprits, whether they were artists or dogmat politicians or reformers politicians or was Karic, or was Miskovic today, always someone who is responsible for what needs to be answered for, but, as a rule, it serves to avoid the essence of the problem that produced it. It's not a fight against corruption and crime to bid with the number of charges. It's a topic for the prosecution, possibly for the Justice Committee, for some others, not for us politicians. If we want to face such an organised state, then we must say that we will change the country, narrow down the number of rights politicians have, free it. It's a fight against corruption, because corruption is in our genes because we always live with a boot behind our necks, so be obedient to the boot I'm going to let go, raise your voice, I'm going to crush you. You, Mr. Dacic, speak for yourself about the great experience you have. That's not controversial, but from that experience, if we can at least get answers to the moves you're going to make, is that your antithesis experience of everything that we're talking about, mostly, to the greatest extent. Everything but these last year, and those four years with Tadic in the coalition, and before that, the rise of the minority Kostunica government, I'm not talking about that time from the '90s. Can we at least get signs of what you're going to do? You're boasting about course. We can't talk to two ministers, and tell me how you think you can raise exports to Serbia, if cumulative inflation in 10 years is 170%, and our national currency has devalued 70, so it's double undervalued. How are we gonna compete with that? You understand that, Mr. Cross. Do you agree with the idea that we have a cemented course the way it is, and we raise our exports. How can we be competitive? Do you agree that political instability affects our financial perspective? How we will enter political stability if every government comes with a new plan every year for the next 10 years. You didn't tell Mr. Dacic, and that's a very important question for us - Why was Mladjan Dinkic removed? Mladjan Dinkic, he did not conduct economic policy alone. This is where we talked during the budget rebalancing, and we said very clearly in the debate that this rebalancing would not last until October of the month. Since transcripts are quoted, someone who suspects to look for transcripts in the ministry will be able to read such a thing. Is Mladjan Dinkic removed from the SNS in the pressure in which you were exposed or replaced by bad economic policy? If he ran a bad economic policy, he couldn't run it himself, so did others. As far as I can see what Mr. Krstic is talking about today, I apologize that is a television show and mostly an interpretation of the newspaper. It's all actually within the framework of some continuity. The harsh tax policy, the tightening of the belt, there were projects that we naturally strongly criticized, which we could never support, but what is the essence of Mladjan Dinkic's policy in the past year remains in force today. This policy is directly contrary to the efforts of the economy minister. How's that gonna work? I don't think I'm quoting someone's attitudes that doesn't matter much anymore, the texts that are written, the statements that are given, but it's too much antagonism among yourselves, and this is how you're so opposed. Can you put yourself in the position of someone making a business plan for the next six months? What can he expect from your government? What's the plan? Whether to invest money in some company in restructuring or in a bankruptcy company that comes out on auction, or sits on the sidelines and waits and doesn't know what. That you go and someone else comes. A lot of questions. 'You're talking about our country's international position. I don't agree that he's the way you describe him. I don't mean the question of trust. I think our international position is very difficult. Because she's changed the paradigm that makes everything work and that no one has time anymore, or ambition to let us parasite on what he's creating. It was written off to us, we were given two-thirds of the debt 10 years ago, and in 10 years we arrived at 60% of GDP again. Only someone on the side can interpret it as our inability to live in a sustainable system. I don't think any of us need to point out the fact that you're now chasing money every month to pay wages and pensions. No one in Serbia will find happiness because you won't be able to pay once, it'll just be a bigger mess. No, more order, less people will listen. But because of the Minister of Agriculture who is here now, come on, say it in your exposé – people, we have four million acres of farmland, we process so much and so much, we don't process this. The time has changed, we bring in those who are willing to work and give up work. Yeah, we bought a hotel on the Kopalnik, we gave two million, we sold it for a million and a half, so whoever gave it a million and a half more to invest and see somewhere in a perspective will benefit. The alternative is that we have a General Staff from Belgrade in Kopalnik, but say it, that's what we should say. Well, say, we appreciate those who hire people, we appreciate them. Don't let your parliamentary majority here lecture me every day because I can do more than they can. Because if we hadn't raised the failed factory, no one today would have reduced the price of flour by 20% and hired and paid people their wages. I can't do that, it won't be done by anyone but the people who exist here. Where we see more problems in this performance of yours, Mr. Dacic, in that policy. You know, there are some symbolic points and you've avoided them. For us, the key question is the issue of organisation of the country. We've been solving problems for two decades that have arisen from your inability to reorganize in time, to start meeting events. You know, what's happening in Kosovo right now, it's crisis management. It's a calming ground, so it's painful. The Krajis' return to the Pala, to the sentence – what will be my welcome, I am still a criminal. It's one message, at the end of a political life, a resignation. It is crucial for you, Mr Dacic, to tell us what order of action you are making, what kind of a vision of Serbia, to talk about this Vojvodina, to talk about southern Serbia, to talk about Sandzak where 70% of people are out of work. Let's start thinking about the way we got to the situation we're in, about the fact that we have half a million people in state services that we support by spending what we don't have. It's true, someone's selling salt, and then it's paid down to Simpa, we can't let the factory go down is the only one that works, then they'll rape everyone from there and come here to Belgrade to Gilas. That's all we have to tell them. Then why do we need the state? You quote liberal economists, so apply. Understand the essence of liberalism. It's not just an economy, it's an individual's right. Start thinking about it. There was too much coughing fire, and too little light needed to light up the space ahead of us. Your exposé unfortunately, he fits into something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22832	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22833	I will try, since I have been mentioned several times to answer some questions raised by Mr Jovanovic. Why did you want a reconstruction? Since there is a question already many times in the public and from various parliamentary groups, it is concluded that the SNS has put some kind of pressure to take on greater control, greater power, to formalise its political strength. I just have to say for the citizens of Serbia, and also for those who sincerely want to hear the answer that's not true. And when you talk about solidarity, relationships between people. Could we have had the election? Could we have destroyed this government now so we could go to the election? Well, we could, it wasn't any problem. But was it Serbia's interest? It wasn't Serbia's interest. Do Mr. Dacic and I, I don't know how and I don't know how much we love each other? It is not our obligation, nor are we doing it, nor are we going to make historic reconciliations as a debt, but it is our obligation to work in Serbia's best interests, and therefore our occasional disagreements, and we have disagreements in our political parties, everyone has them, it seems to me that in a democratic and civilized society something that is perfectly normal, seems to be working decent, and I would say by the results good or something better than it did in the previous periods. Why did we want a reconstruction? I tried to answer that question, the answer to your MP, the honourable Mr. Djuric. So there are different goals and different interests. As for the excess power in all those places you'd say were important, significant, powerful, no one from the SNS came, absolutely no one. I handed myself over to the Department of Defense, to someone else, it's true, which is a member but certainly not a SNS official. The others are not members of the SNS at all. As for our motivation to do this. It is primarily to achieve as good a result as possible. Let's say we've done some results, but we're certainly not happy, we want to strengthen the team. We played the League of Europe, but we want to play the Champions League. We won't even settle for it, we'll go as far away as possible. So that's what led us. We will never say that we are satisfied or overly satisfied with our results, because it would not be fair to the citizens either, and the citizens would know that we can't do it anymore. Those who were always satisfied and pointed out that in our modern politics, I would say that they were first of all wrong, because they underestimated people, and people saw that they were neither dedicated enough, nor sufficiently engaged, nor energetic enough. It's our desire to have better results. That's no shame. We are proud to want more and to impose this idea ourselves, and to start it ourselves. We were talking about passing times at first. I'm telling you now, we're gonna have a new time. We'll have new time and see how the minister worked. Recently, on the main board of our party, I told those who stayed in the government not to think that they had cemented their seats, primarily thinking about our ministers. What do you think that means now that the rest of them are in the government so for the next six months they can't show up at work, or work enough? That's out of the question. I accept your idea that I don't always put out fires and stuff everything in a well, and we don't bury holes we can never bury. With that, we'll have problems for you, and for me, and for everyone in this country. I'm just asking everyone else not to attack us every day when we don't. And I'm not saying that about your party. You didn't mind today when I spoke, unlike some others, who I suppose, out of their obsession, they see nothing but hatred for me, or the party I'm leading today. So we'll have countless problems, countless problems. It'll be such a pain. They'll come before the government, they'll come to different places, but we'll have solutions. We'll have a solution that will be different from the ones we've had so far. We talked today after many days of work about what it is that should be in the economic sphere of our plan and programme. We agreed not to go out until we arrived with full measures and before the National Assembly and in front of the parliamentary groups. You'll be notified and everyone else. So, we are expected by a very comprehensive, I would say, comprehensive reform in the area of the economy. We'll try to do something few countries have managed to do, but we're not satisfied with the small results. We will make major reforms in the field of labour contributions, so tax cuts for producers, especially for exporters, to encourage them in this way, and those who have the most, or convincingly, the most additional tax. We're going to make big, significant and huge reforms. I'm sure you'll support them, too. I'm sure you'll be able to support them, even if there are some things you disagree with, I know that somewhere, even if you can say quietly, let this not be as bad for our country as you said about other things. So I was talking about some things that I was completely convinced we had enough knowledge, capacity, power to get the country out of the crisis. Our country is in a difficult state, but our country is not the worst country, nor are we without a chance, but we have to change ourselves and our behavior, and I am fully convinced that those rules that you've talked about, that we need these rules and these systems to start introducing ourselves into this country and we're going to fully introduce them. Anyway, as we had, I can't even explain to you what stupid problems we had with providing the "bosa" what we promised. I can't explain what stupid problems we're having in our conversation with Mercedes. You know them as well as I do, talking to these people. It's unexplainable for me to object, because you don't want to go to an English-language test, and you want to work at the most powerful regional company, the airline, but it's also Serbia. That's the thing where we all have to participate together, try to change it, and I think people understood it, and that's why people are looking for co-operation, so they're looking for conversations, so we didn't have a problem telling us when to talk about "Belgrade on Water". What's the problem with us having to talk to our political opponents, because we have to speed it up and they sit and talk, our teams talk to each other two or three times a week to speed it up. It seems to me that these are things that we have to think about and things that we have to think about in a different way to see the future. I said this, not because it's an expression of our weakness, I don't want to talk about percentages that have political parties or I don't know who. I'm telling you this because I think Serbia has no other way and will not have a future. We need to be objective, not to support some of the protests that we know are unwarranted, or to support them, just because they are against our political opponents, just as we have done unequivocally. As you can see, it's not hard for me to admit, therefore, as far as constant opposition is concerned, yes, we will, we have, we have, and we will have different opinions. About most things we have consensual opinions, which seems to me to be visible, but I'm sorry, I don't live in one mind, it's perfectly normal for us to express different attitudes, we belong to different political parties, and I think these differences show something that we can do faster and better forward. On the other hand, I just want to tell a lot of people and ask, that's not a question for you, Mr. Jovanovic, I ask everyone in the room to think about their leaders. Just imagine, when you're already talking about a permanent jag and a desire for authority, I don't know, SNS or anyone, just put yourself in a position to have the kind of popularity or the kind of support in the people we have today, and since 1990 it hasn't existed in Serbia. Just ask yourself, who wouldn't ask you to be prime minister or president, and as you can see, we're not asking, because we think it's much more important how the government works and how Serbia works.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22834	The word is "Ivica Dacic." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22835	Let me answer what Mr. Jovanovic asked. First of all, this is not a choice of new Serbian government. In today's exposure, I did not cover all segments of politics and all segments of society and what the government would do in all these fields. This government is not a negation of the previous government, this government does not deny what we outlined as our goals 13 months ago. What's the difference? The difference is that we wanted to see if we could do better, can we get better results? We plan to define in the next period for each ministry certain priorities that the ministry should achieve in the next period. It will be the subject of analysis in the next period. As I said in the exposé 13 months ago and now, as Mr. Vukic said, as president of the largest party in the coalition, the results are you, and it is success that brings this crucial assessment to whether one government is successful, whether it achieves the result or not, is it successful? We have achieved the goals that you may have set ten years ago. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic said we would join the EU, I think in 2007, if I remember correctly. Also, many of the previous governments set off on this path, did not come to the point when, although they had on their billboards, they "is feasible", but later concluded that they should not go that way. We have shown that it is really possible, that it is possible to win, to open negotiations on Serbia's EU membership. We expect that there will be a lot of difficulties in the next period, difficulties and implementation of the Brussels Agreement, difficulties and in the negotiating framework with the EU, that there will be difficulties and that it will be a great success if the negotiations start in late December, when I say, I think of the first intergovernmental conference to be held by the end of January at the latest. But we're only on the first step. To move on, indeed Mr. Jovanovic is right when he says that we are coming now, only now are we actually left to ourselves when we get to this level, because as we go on, it depends on how ready we are and how much we have built society, institutions, system, to open and close certain chapters. We expect these two judiciary chapters, 23 and 24 and Chapter 32, which are financial control, to begin the explanatory screening by the end of this year. That screening's gonna take a year and a half. So we have to organize ourselves now for the tasks ahead of us. It's true that the people we've proposed, many of them haven't done this job that we're talking about because they just haven't done this job. Of course I want to thank them here for taking those calls in general, not talking about our party people. If you look at, indeed, of all these proposals, I've already said since the 11th proposal, it's all I think five that are, I say, party members and party leadership. This was also a major risk for them, but also a challenge. They trusted to enter this Serbian government and it is also a great honor for us to accept it. The only thing we asked them to do is to do everything we can, to make Serbia a normal country and that our people, our children, have a future like all other countries in Europe, to show and give the best we can of ourselves and of course to measure the result over the next six months, a year, etc. When it comes to Mr. Vukic and me and our relations, I would really ask everyone to leave these relations with us, and in any case, I don't see, I don't know, maybe someone's fighting for affection, and then there are so many, I didn't even know, Mr. Vukic said a few times a week that certain consultations are being held about some joint projects, and I didn't really listen to some big public enthusiasm with this policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why it's important, too, that the SPS is in the city-level coalition, so I'm saying that this situation might be clarified in the next period, in any case, it would be the order. I'm a little bit of a joke, but there's a bit of a joke in every joke. I agree with Mr. Jovanovic, we need not fire extinguishing, but strategic things, but we can't get to strategic things. We cannot have a serious discussion on all these topics because we are only dealing with inter-party divisions and some pointless issues that lead us away from the essentials of Serbia, and Vojvodina, and southern Serbia, and ultimately, the concept of a society that we stand for. It is normal for us in the Serbian government to have different concepts. Mr. Vukic's party belongs to the national coalition at the level of Europe. Your party, Mr. Jovanovic, belongs to a liberal orientation. My party, Mr. Krkobic's party, Rasim Ljajic, belongs to a socialist, or social-democratic option, together with the DS and of course we are not... We haven't talked in decades about the concept of society that we stand for. Please, it's not easy for people who come to work on this, because it's being debated around the world, which is the concept of economics, whether it's going to be tighter or more investment in development. Of course, it will not be easy for us, especially that Serbia cannot be measured with some other countries. I'm sorry, Mr. Jovanovic, for realizing that I was looking over your shoulder, but I wasn't really setting up this pay phone. I don't know why she was set up like this. Maybe turn her towards the opposition. I also spoke from there when I was elected Prime Minister, or Prime Minister. It has nothing to do with the relationship to political opponents. I think it is important here to say this: inside the Government of the Republic of Serbia sometimes there are different concepts, which may be more visible, because we don't actually have opponents right in opposition. I'm not talking, I have to say, about opponents when we're only talking about a national issue, like the DSS, about topics that we'd run that aren't day-to-day political. Otherwise, our commitment to work together has never been questioned. When the government was formed it was such a relationship between political forces that DS and SNS had the largest number of MPs, and the SPS, PUPS and JS had about 15%. Today, the relationship of power has changed. Such a relationship of force on the political scene certainly can cause and change in the government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why elections would be necessary or our mutual political agreement, but we have defined ourselves together, and it has never been disputed on our part, to continue working together and try to do more for Serbia at this point than for our parties, not to share power among the parties, and that it is at the expense of Serbia's interests. In that sense, I am also grateful to the SNS in terms of understanding the situation we are in, and as far as our relations are concerned, I think that, unfortunately for you, this government is working on very strong grounds and it will last as long as we want it to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-30-0.u22836	Thank you. This is where we interrupt work and resume tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 133 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Milorad Stosic. In accordance with Rule 87 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have appointed an extension of this session exclusively for Saturday, 31 August 2013, therefore, beyond the date of a specific Article 87, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to select members of the Government as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the promoter, Mr Ivica Dacic, the Prime Minister, to be attended by all other members of the government, the Secretary-General of the Government, candidates for new members of the government, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia. I'm continuing the search on the 1st item of the agenda, the election and the order of the members of the government's oaths. National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
