ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25362	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all sitting agenda points, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday, October 31st, 2013, starting at 11.25 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a LEGALIZATION LEGALISATION After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on legalization of objects to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – 40, abstentions – one, did not vote 15, out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Nedje Jovanovic to Article 7; Katarina Rakic to the article. 8, 24, 26 and 36; Susane Spasojevic in Art. 13 and 20; together Bojan Kostreš, Djorđa Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karola Čizika and Dragan Andrić in art. 13th and 16th; Susane Grubjesic in Art. 13th and 16th; in the same text, Susane Spasojevic and together Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Veličković and Ljubice Milosevic respectively. 15 and 16; together with Aleksandar Senić, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić, which is added by the new member 18a and to the article. 21 and 22; together Susane Spasojevic and Dejana Radenković to Article 28; Jelena Travar Miljević to Art. 19th and 31st and amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Article 32. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Olgica Batic submitted an amendment to the bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 176 out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 175 of the 184 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – two, abstentions – one, 178 of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 170 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and Bojan Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 156 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 176 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 182 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with corrections, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 177 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 179 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic and together Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 177 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 184 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 181 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 157 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 183 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – 27, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 23 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Velickovic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – 184 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 155 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted—178 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—179 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 180 out of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 186 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Olgica Batić, Suzana Grubjesic, together Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenović and together Aleksandar Senić, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mechandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, with a correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – 13, the abstentions were not voted by 49 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – one, the abstentioned did not vote 151 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Suzana Grubjesic submitted an amendment adding a new article 8a to the post-Article 8. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 185 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Olgica Batić, together Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenović and together Aleksandar Senić, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić, submitted the MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that the vote has been voted by 27 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, the abstentioned did not vote 179 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 184 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare; for -29, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against them, has voted 185 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment is jointly attended by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare; for -29, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare; for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 182 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Velickovic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that -31, against - none of the abstentions voted 155 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare; for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that -22, against - none of the abstentions voted 162 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment with correction was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapcevic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare; for - nine, against—no one, the abstentioned, voted 176 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare; for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare; for - six, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I ask the MPs who are not in the O.R. to get their cards out, since there are objections related to the quorum. Please do not allow us to be able to establish an emergency quorum, that the cards of those MPs who are not in the hall are removed from the parliamentary units, and those who are in the hall, please do so, because they cannot complain about damage to the quorum if they do not have a card inserted into the system. I can't have a conversation with someone who's not legally in the O.R. It's also a business obligation. I ask the MPs to insert their electronic identification cards to determine the quorum. I find there's a quorum for further work. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – two abstentions – there is no, 144 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 155 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olga Batic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment, with a correction. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – two abstentions – no, 162 of the 181 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 162 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 176 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 178 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 163 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Before we continue my work, allow me to welcome the students of the First Belgrade High School, who are currently following today's session from the grand hall gallery. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—179 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 162 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 181 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 10 MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 158 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 176 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against – one, abstention – there is no, no vote – 176 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted—177 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 160 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 159 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 176 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 182 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoltan Peck, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted—178 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – 176 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 165 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 168 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Suzana Grubjesic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 21a be added after article 21. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177, out of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one abstention – there is no, 169 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 160 out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapcevic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 171 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 173, out of the 178 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160, out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Allow me, before we continue to work, to welcome, on your behalf and on my behalf, members of the Association "Let's Be Together". This is the association of sick and treated women of breast cancer who came on behalf of all women suffering from this severe disease. Please, this is how the National Assembly supports the fight against breast cancer. National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 162, of the 177 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 166, out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Suzana Grubjesic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 24a be added after Article 24a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Olgica Batic and together Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 160 out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 161 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Olgica Batic and Susana Grubjesic submitted to the 28th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olgica Batic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and Bojan Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by a group of 10 MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 156 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment in the same text was submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic and together Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, no one, with abstentions, voted 147 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Shin has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 32a be added after article 32a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 173 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Olgica Batic and Susana Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Olgica Batic and together Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 119 against – four abstentions – no, 50 of the 173 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 150 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Some colleagues have found that the popularity of the National Assembly seems to be growing today. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 169 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 163 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, with a correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 165 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th and 39th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nejko Jovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – 28, the abstentioned – no, 22 of the 171 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting amendments by the MPs Susana Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic to members 5, 8 and 34. Proposal for a law, the situation referred to in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of these amendments, gave rise to the need for the committee responsible to submit new amendments agreeing the amendments adopted with the text of the draft law. I therefore set a ten-minute break and ask that the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendments, i.e. reports. We continue work at 13.10 p.m. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for decision-making. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, submitted an amendment to Article 32. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, submitted an amendment to Article 39. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 23 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Since we have concluded our decision on amendments, we now approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on the legalization of objects in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – 24, the abstentions did not vote 11 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the legalization of objects. The second item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON TRANSFERATION AND THE FUND OF IMPLEMENTATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and the lease of immovable property, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 16, the abstentions did not vote 14 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the Bill's proposal in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments: to Article 7 submitted jointly by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic and to Article 7 who together have been submitted by the MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, the abstentioned, voted 153 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 9th amendment together. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, no one, with abstentions, voted 37 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Velickovic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added the title and the new member of 26a, was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment with corrections was brought together by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and the lease of immovable property, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -129, v - 20 abstentions - there is no vote, 17 of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and on the lease of immovable property. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular on the 3rd point of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the intervention of exports and imports of dual-use goods, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that -126, v -11, abstention - no, 29 of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the People's MPs: Donke Banović, member 2, Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric, members 3, 8 and 19, and Donke Banović and Milice Vojić Markovic, member 14. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the 166 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 166 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 9th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 31st amendment. At the meeting of the National Assembly, during the search in particular, the president accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted 33 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on export and import of dual-use goods, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, 34 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a law on exports and imports of dual-use goods. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ELECTRON TRADE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the e-commerce law, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – seven abstentions – no, 31 of the 164 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Government to Article 11. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Together, MPs Dusica Morčev and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Proposer representative Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, accepted the amendment during the search in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 27 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 34 of the total 164 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF CONCERNATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not 33 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to Article 2 submitted jointly by the MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic, to Article 3 submitted by MP Zoran Babic and member 22, who submitted a group of 65 MPs to the SNS Group. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—no one has voted— 156 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 155 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović, Branka Karavidić and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 154 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment On Article 8, in the same text, the MPs submitted: together Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic and together Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – 148 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – seven, against – 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – seven, against – 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović, Branka Karavidić and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted— 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who has been abstained—no vote— 159 of the total of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević submitted together to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 161 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović, Branka Karavidić and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 155 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who has been abstained—no vote— 159 of the total of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – nine abstentions – there is no, no vote – 30 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for a law on the approval of international agreements (points 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda) I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of information and communication technologies, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 22 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on mutual incentive and protection of investment, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – nine of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the establishment of a mixed commission on trade and economic and scientific and technical co-operation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 17, of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstention – voted 12, out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 15 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions on the selection of judicial officers, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(2), paragraphs 12 and 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on the choice of judicial officials by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to a decision on the proposals for decisions on selecting legal holders, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 30, of the total attendance of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Administrative Court, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 27 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Commerce, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 27 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I'm putting the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Major Criminal Court, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 27 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstention – voted 28 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Nis, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 27 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 27 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are elected for the first time in office, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 25 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate the Presidents of the Court and the Judges on their election on your behalf and on my behalf and wish them success in their work. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the number and election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – two abstentions – there is no, no vote is 27, of the total attendance of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend the Decision on the number and election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly by majority of the votes of all MPs. As we now move to a decision on the proposals for decisions on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international parliamentary institutions, i.e. the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on these proposals by a majority vote of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision-making decision, in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, number 02-3254/13, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 14 out of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, No 02-3292/13, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted 17, out of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, No 02-3570/13, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – voted 17 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes of all the MPs, the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, No 02-3601/13, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes of all the MPs, the motion for a decision. On the occasion of the apprehension of the MPs of the Rules of Procedure, I remind you that this is what the National Assembly declares in the day of the vote without a search. We're moving on to a decision. National MP Vuceta Toskovic, at a session on 2 October 2013, at 12 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 63, against – one, the abstention – there is no, they did not vote – 93 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 10 October 2013, at 16 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, there is no vote – 147 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 10 October 2013, at 17 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 103, 107, 127 and 128. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 146 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 12 October 2013, at 12 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 107 and 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 148 of the total of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 24 October 2013, at 15 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 27 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who has been abstained—no vote— 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 24 October 2013, at 16 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 51, against – two abstentions – there is no, they did not vote – 103 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the first session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. (The session is closed at 14.25 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25364	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The fourth session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 31 October 2013 (The session began at 14.25 p.m. The session is chaired by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present and that there are a majority of the total number of MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, shall have the right to request information or explanations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Does one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25366	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today I want to ask the Minister of Education. Please, Chairman, can we have a little order? Can you give me back my time and establish order? (President: May I have your attention, please? ) I ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, and the question is – what will the ministry do for a stable and sustainable financing of the Petnica research station? The truth is, I want to say that outgoing Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic made a decision in July of this year to provide funding for Petnica. The fact is, those funds went astray somewhere along the way to Petnica and didn't reach them. Also, while these ministries were headed by the ministers from the URS, and the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Information Society, Petnica was financially assisted. However, I do not think the real question is – does the finance minister separate the money for Petnica, because at least in the URS, we have witnessed how lightly some ministers have transferred responsibility from their portfolios to the finance minister. Please, Chairman, a little order, if possible. Please keep in mind this time, when I'm really fighting for a vote. [[(President: I ask the People's MPs for order in the O.R. I'm almost not listening.]] Therefore, the finance minister must take care of the sustainability and stability of the entire system, and some ministers must set priorities in their portfolios. My question is, is Petnica a priority for the Ministry of Education? In last year's Petnica, then alumni Petnica, not dreaming of being a finance minister, he wrote an article titled "Poor, but Sexy", alluding to what Petnica is like. She is a witchy, smart, innovative, creative, and therefore attractive enough, so she doesn't have to be rich. But this isn't about wealth, it's about survival, because this year Petnica won't be able to enroll new students. In this context, for me, who know at least twenty brilliant children from Leskovec, who are present or former students, associates of Petnica, for me, for them and their parents, not only is it unacceptable, but it is an offensive offer for Megatrend to enter a partnership with Petnic. This is about two different systems of value. The state has to say that Petnica is not for sale. Five and Megatrend are two different things, at least because of one fact. There are no starlets and folk stars coming to Petnica to get a degree, at least for the reason that the Petnica graduates... My colleagues, I believe this subject is of no interest to you at all, but please allow me to speak. So, at least for reasons that Petnica doesn't give a degree or a certificate, Petnica doesn't even give the knowledge, it gives the ability to acquire knowledge and to answer. The Petnica held 2,500 seminars and courses for 31 years of work, with 40,000 participants and 6,000 lecturers passing through it. In the last year alone, 94 seminars were held in Petnica, with 1,877 participants from 209 schools in Serbia, as well as 47 teachers and 500 visiting associates. In Petnica, CERN held the summer physics school of particles. UNESCO supported Petnica. Israeli teachers trained at the leading school for talent at Petnica. A summer international camp was also held where children from all over the world were taught in Petnica. The training of Croatian teachers and many other international activities was held. What do I like most in my pen book? These are their yellow sides that show how they take care of all their students and at all times know where they are. It said that last year, Petnica received seven new members of SANU, three extraordinary professors, 70 new diplomats and masters, as they say, as well as 14 PhDs. Two of Belgrade University's top students are "Petniks". Nine of them were employed in Microsoft last year. Also, another 60 masters, PhDs around the world have been defended by Petniks. They got a job, a profession at the most prestigious universities around the world, from China, across the UK, to the Netherlands, Finland, America. That is why my question is Minister – what will he do for stable funding? In one answer the Ministry of Education gave Petnica says the Ministry of Education doesn't know exactly what Petnica is and that's why she can't finance it. If you don't know what Petnica is, ask Mr. Sergio Bertoluchi, director of the CERN Research Programme, who visited Petnica last year to establish co-operation with her. It is not a question, Minister, how will you introduce a poor education system of Serbia into Petnica, but vice versa – how will you bring Petnica into Serbia's education system to make him better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25367	Before we continue to work, allow me to welcome in your name a group of educators from the Serbian High School in Budapest, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Since my colleagues have warned me that we should, I apologize for the technical error, before asking questions to determine the agenda, because from that moment on we have a fundamental session, we will now move on to setting up the agenda, and we will return to asking questions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Zoran Bojanic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Dr Danilo Nikolic and Neđo Jovanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Ljiljana Blagojevic, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013 and the 7th Special Session of the National Assembly in 2013. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 7 October and 10 October 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 7 October and 10 October 2013. I put to the vote The publication of the 7th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 16 October 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 7th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 16 October 2013. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly has proposed to put on the agenda the proposal for a decision on the termination of office of the Public Prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 127, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda an emergency procedure draft law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the E763 Motorway Construction project of Obrenovac-Lig by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Business as the borrowers and Chinese "Export-Import Bank" as the lender submitted to the National Assembly on 17 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Educational Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 17 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 130, against – no one, with abstention – voted 23 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 29 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 30 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 October 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 122 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 35 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 15 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and Destroying be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 33 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs Djordje Milicevic and Zoran Kasalovic proposed putting on the agenda an emergency procedure to put forward a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -34, against -one, abstentions - no, 121 of the total of 156 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 65 MPs from the Serbian Progressive Group suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 October 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, no one, with abstentions, voted 34, out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 October 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 33, out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic under Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) of Articles 170 and 170. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: First Joint Principle Search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors. Second joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Code, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, Proposal for a Law amending the Law amending the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Foreign Affairs and Trade, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Fourth Additional Protocol under the European Convention on Extradition. The Third Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Detective Action, Proposal for a Law on Private Security, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and the Republic of Austria on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD) in Vienna on 1 June 1993, supplemented by the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the modification and extension of the validity of the ICMPD signed Agreement on the establishment and operation of the ICMPD of 27 March 1996, the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the amendments to the Agreement on the establishment of Serbia and the work of the ICMPD signed on 26 April 1996, as well as the Third Amendment to the Agreement establishing and the work of the ICMPD between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia on the Republic ofCroatia 's Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia to the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic to the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic to the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic tothe The Fourth Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Stock Reserves, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation on Strategic Economic Co-operation and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No. 2. Agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. The fifth Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Agreement on the Main Internal Waterways of International Meaning (AGN), Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the area of Railway Traffic, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in the field of rail transport of passengers and things. The 6th Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for a Credit for a Preferred Customer for the Project of Construction of the E-763 Motorway (Obrenovac-Lig) between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Business, as the Borrower and the Chinese Export – Import Bank, as the Borrower, and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to Income Taxation; and the Seventh Common Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision on the Termination of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Kragujevec, the Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of the Deputys of Citizens, Proposal for a Decision of Members of the National Educational Council, the National Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, the National Assembly of the Republic of the National Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Parliament, the proposal for the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the President of the Republic of the Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of the Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Parliament of the Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the President of the European Parliament of the President of the President of the European Parliament of the President of the President of the President of the Republic of the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Parliament of the Republic of the European Parliament of the Republic of the European Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted 32, out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Before declaring the agenda in general, I remind you that by letter 03 number 011-2785/13 of 28 October 2013, the government has withdrawn from the assembly procedure: Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Extradition. Those draft laws are set out in the proposed agenda of this sitting as a point. 16, 17 and 20. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted 32, out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Prosecutor's Law, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, 6. Proposal for a law on detective activity, 7. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Stock Reserve Act, 9. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, 10. Proposal for a safety and interoperability law of the railway, 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation, 13. Proposal for a law on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women, 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Foreign Delivery of Court and Non-Court Acts in Civil and Commercial Matters, 15 / 15 Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Making of Evidence Foreign in Civil and Commercial Matters, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on legal aid in civil and criminal matters, 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Fourth Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition, 18. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and the Republic of Austria on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD) in Vienna on 1 June 1993, supplemented by the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the extension of the ICMPD Agreement on the Establishment and Labour of the ICMPD of 27 March 1996, the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary amending the ICMPD Agreement between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland, signed on 25 June 2003, the date of the date of entry into force of the Agreement on the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, signed on 25 June 2003. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on readmission (returning and acceptance) of a person whose entry or stay is illegal, 20. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on police co-operation, 21. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry and stay is illegal, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for a credit to a privileged buyer for the E-763 Motorway Construction Project (Obrenovac-Ljig share) between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Business, as a borrower and Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation on Strategic Economic Co-operation, 25. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of Annex No. 2. Agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. 26. Proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on the main internal waterways of international importance (AGN), 27. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of rail traffic, 28. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the area of rail traffic, 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Australia, 30. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic on international road transport of passengers and things, 31. Proposal for a decision to suspend the public prosecutor's office in the Kragujevac Public Prosecutor's Office, 32. Proposal for the National Assembly to make a decision establishing that conditions for the termination of the post of Deputy Protector of Citizens have been met, 33. Proposal for a decision on the election of Deputy Protector of the Citizens, 34. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Education Council, 35. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the National Education Council, 36. List of candidates for the election of one member of the National Educational Council of the Order of the Serbian Orthodox Church, 37. Proposal for a decision on the selection of two members of the National Higher Education Council, 38. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, 39. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 40. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 41. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act, 42. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. We return to the questions that MPs have to ask on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first to be declared is MP Bojan Djuric. Here you go. It might be good to wait 20 seconds for the MPs to split up, but, well, I hope you hear me. So I'm asking the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it's very short. Mr. Stefanovic, please. I suggest we just do it, I'll give you back your time because there's no point in me taking this time away from you. I ask the People's Messengers to allow the People's Messenger to speak. Please sign in one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25369	Once again, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I ask the question to the Prime Minister, and please, by the way, there is a very strange practice in Parliament when we ask parliamentary questions, I ask a lot of parliamentary questions that I have asked, i.e. requests notices, I get an answer from some authorities or state institutions that I have not referred to. I hope this issue is delivered to the Prime Minister, and he will answer it. The question is very simple – is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the fundamental constitutional principle of the division of power in Serbia at this time? Why am I asking that? The president of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, as you all know, was on an official visit to Russia yesterday. During a meeting with President Putin, Tomislav Nikolic, the president of the Republic, the other head of the bicepal execution, said an amazing thing, that some of the government's conclusions would be abolished, or he and the Russian side believe they are not in line with agreements signed with the Russian Federation. I ask the Prime Minister, in which exact member of the Constitution the President of the Republic from which exactly the member of the Constitution the President of the Republic draws constitutional authority to decide whether the acts of the Government will be amended as part two of the executive authority? This isn't just a casual remark, it's a question of breaking the Constitution. Serbia's constitution makes it clear which state authorities have any jurisdiction, including jurisdiction for the adoption of legal, sublegal and other acts. How does the President of the Republic have the authority to comment and especially to say that an act, or government opinion, will be abolished? The second question for the Prime Minister is, will he in any way oppose the practice he established, among other things yesterday, Mr Nikolic in Moscow, that he publicly criticises ministers in the Serbian government before officials of another state? Mr Nikolic criticised yesterday the behaviour of some ministers in the government by arguing that they do not work in accordance with the agreements we signed with the Russian Federation. No one in this country is naive. We all know what this is about. It is that Mr. Bacevic cannot make his own decisions in favour of the Russian side, as he mostly performs as an agent of the Russian side, not a minister in the Serbian government. When resistance arises in the Serbian government in some other ministries, then the president of the Republic gets involved beyond all constitutional powers and tries to make decisions instead of those authorities that are responsible. It is a serious issue for both this parliament and the Serbian government. The president of the Republic has very clear powers, has no authority to change the views of the Serbian government, nor has he the right to exert even that kind of political pressure on the government. That scene was very unpleasant yesterday. In the end, President Putin said that relations would be resolved friendlyly, and the president of our country, President Nikolic spoke of some ministers not getting along, making decisions that are contrary to the agreement, etc. The second question is for Mr Bacevic, when he returned to the country – did he ask in Moscow yesterday when the commission would be cut, i.e. abolished, or intermediation in gas imports, and did he fight for increased ore rent? That's what citizens of all Serbia ask, and above all, ask the citizens of the duchy towns and municipalities of Zrenjanin, Kickinda, all those places where oil and gas are extracted as if it doesn't exist tomorrow and a 3% rent is paid instead of a legal 7% rent? These are my questions, I hope that in this part of the session after 16 hours and from some of the ministers or prime minister or prime minister, I will be able to hear the answer to some of these questions. Why are these important questions? Because while the President of the Republic and some ministers thus lead foreign or economic policy, in Serbia on October 30th and 31st 2013, the topic is lurking among students, and according to some information and schools, mass poisoning, and the fact that our universities owe, i.e. the University of Belgrade, and some universities owe 50 million dinars for heating. This is also a question for the President of the Republic and for the Prime Minister and for the Minister of Education, how are you going to introduce a Finnish model while colleges owe you for heating, the subject is lurking and we don't know exactly what the conditions are, how is it reacting in the situation of poisoning? Since the minister asked if this is the bottom, I'm telling him it's not the bottom. The bottom line is that there are thousands of toilet-free schools, so these mass poisonings will be increasingly common and the president of the Republic should worry about it, not about whether or not we will be attacked by some first-world workers. No one's going to attack us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25370	Xvala. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25371	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the chairman, these days we are witnessing the passing of Serbian citizens who are desperate for their job they have or do not have a desperate or disturbing salary, watching what FAP workers do, blocking rail traffic, seeing protests and blockades in Kragujevac, Smederev, bridge over the Danube on Smederev, in Zrenjanin hunger strikes. Three or four years ago, it was initiated by cutting off a worker's finger in Serbia's interior. So all this time Serbia is going down and people are getting worse and worse. These protests Serbia faces are not protests from people who are politically instructed, and you in the government know it very well, but are protests from desperate people and measures they take on the street, on the bridge, on the rail line are desperate measures. What is interesting, when they hear what they want, whom they call the first Deputy Prime Minister to talk to him because the first Deputy Prime Minister and his political party are really fascinating campaigns, I must say, because this is something that Serbia has not long seen in the campaign, when it comes to propaganda, about the way they present themselves about the importance of their functions and the work they have done. So they call him someone who's the first vice president, the first self-proclaimed genius to get Serbia out of trouble and trouble. How does he suit them? I heard that today that roadblock was stopped, I heard, we saw on the TV that the first vice president of the government went to meet FAP workers, but that communication, the way it's going, the way that this play is happening in Serbia, doesn't suggest anything good. We are not for it, nor can anyone normal be for it to advise workers to protect their rights by blocking the roads, by blocking the roads, but we must as people who are chosen by the same citizens to sit in this home, be prepared to understand their cry. What's behind that? The economic recovery program? Is there behind this a complex of measures that will be taken, based on which these people who are really in big trouble will see some light behind all this? A large number of people see that behind the plays, behind what lies behind these powerful show programs in various arenas, great myths, many people believe that light sees it, and they actually see only a very well-directed show, a very sweet promise that people love. People like to be promised something sweet and nice, but those who are in real trouble, and they are progressive in a geometric sense more and more in Serbia and will not love it anymore. He won't even look at it and listen to it anymore. Why did they call the first vice president of the government? Why him, first of all, and before everyone else? Because it's the man who made the impression on all those parades that someone who's there is willing and able to solve the problem. But, dear people, it's not going to be solved that way, but it can only be solved if we have a complex of measures to recover the economy and it has to be clearly put to the knowledge of people. There is no communication in any of this, even the measures that have been taken in the financial sector, and the measures are not complete and nothing but forced savings stands for them, and this savings itself is extremely harmful for economic motivation because one large sector of people outside the economy, which is unfortunately the main employer. That's what's not good, but it's a fact, it's a fact of life in Serbia, and we won't even be able to start production on that. What do you say to these people? What do you say to those who block bridges? What do you say to those who block the railroad? That there's a big cowboy coming to save them. I'd like to ask the government a question -- when he thinks he's coming out with a concrete set of economic measures, but I don't know who to refer that question to anymore? Whether to refer to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance or the first Deputy Prime Minister, who obviously changes everything and there's a card for everyone. Children in primary school in the first grade or in preschool age will begin to think that the biggest function in the country is to be the first vice president of the government. I really admire and the skills of those who can make a good show and sell themselves well, but behind that must be work and economic reform so that these people have something to live on, which will be in a year, two in an even bigger accident than they are today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25372	Thank you. Mr. Zelenovic, I'll give you my word, just send me an application to ask MPs questions later.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25373	Thank you. I would like to ask another one in a series of questions from health ministers to Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. That's the next question. Is the Ministry of Health planning to come up with a new plan for next year, or a new act on the plan of a network of health care institutions? Then, will the law be respected, and will we really welcome by the end of the year that Serbia's health centres are deformed, i.e. to homes of health, hospitals, health institutions of territorial protection, as it stands in the law? Then how long does it take for the Health Ministry's staff to make some kind of decision and inform the institutions seeking some information about it? The fourth question is – why so centralised? These are issues that seem to be four different issues, which are actually referred to one ministry and are very importantly connected. At this point in Serbia, we have entirely unequal conditions, inaccessibility of healthcare for citizens depending on whether they live in small areas or in large cities. We have a situation that in most cases our citizens living in small areas cannot be treated and health care is not available to them in the same way as others. Of course, the demographic structure of the population has changed, but our outdated plan for a network of health institutions hasn't changed in decades. I believe that a change is necessary, that it is necessary to respond to the challenges that today provides and allow everyone to be treated on equal terms. Among other things, the important thing for this is the flaw that currently exists, and this is the inability to make large health centres in Serbia, such as the one. finds in the King, Užica, Valjev and other cities have not yet been shared by these heavy, large, bulky systems doing bad business. That's why it's happening to us that we've got a problem with the Prepolje having no reagenas, so you can't run a basic lab analysis. We have a situation where we've been waiting months for a decision on whether or not some doctors are going to get a job, and that decision from the Staff Committee is not coming. We have a situation that in smaller cities like Baji's Garden, you don't have any agreed dentists. I ask the question – why is that? How is it possible to make such a personnel plan in cities or small cities, such as You don't have any agreed dentists, do you? How can this happen, and how will dental health care be provided in such cities and municipalities? A large number of primary health institutions have made demands to the Ministry of Health and the Staff Commission to enable them to employ medical staff, nothing beyond norms, all in accordance with the norms and human resources plan, but months ago these health homes did not receive answers. Then who's going to treat our citizens? In June of the month, a staff plan was put in place for this year. I really expect that a once-in-a-year staff plan will be put in place in the year preceding that year to which the Staff Plan applies. Imagine the situation where we plan something in 2013 by deciding on it in June of the month, that is, half of the year. Then the mass of health institutions submits amendments to the plan and the possibility of hiring some medical staff and medical staff, since the fact that there are insufficient numbers of doctors in small towns and then people wait for months to get the right answer, and the answer never arrives. In all that time, no one heals the people. For citizens, health care is completely unavailable and all they have left is to travel to larger centres, spend their own money, their own time, and even those who are now much less, who have certified health books actually wonder what they are doing and what kind of healthcare they get in the name of such certified health books. If we consider all of this, we have a situation that leads us to one absurdity, which is that today in Serbia, we have or do not have a health book, you have to pay for your treatment. When we talked about the Health Protection Act, then I said that it would be a problem that the ministry's competence in addition to drawing up a human resources plan is extremely centralised and the idea of separating the centres provides opportunities for smaller environments to have more competences and that we will bring the needs of citizens closer to funding. This is what I expect from the health minister in the future, to respect the opinion of small municipalities, small homes of health, city hospitals and to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25374	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25375	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a country where almost nothing works in most areas, it is a big problem to choose a topic to raise as a parliamentary question and a minister to whom to refer the issue. I had a big dilemma about whether to ask the Minister of Economy today, a gentleman who had just recently entered office, who announced that 100,000 people would be out of work, since the beginning of the year 27 firms went into bankruptcy in restructuring. People are on strike. Laws are announced that strikes will practically limit people's ability to protest. I was wondering if I should ask a question mentioned by some of my colleagues in the field of health care. The fact is that there are no drugs, no machines, mammographs, CTs and other apparatus that are important for health and for the lives of citizens, especially radiation machines, that we have a very controversial decision on the purchase of supplies that have not been used anywhere in Europe, issues that might be referred to the Prime Minister or the first vice president – who pays the show that is being organised in Serbia these days, the type of aircraft accompanied by aviation, flights to Emirate, etc., charging halls with Serbian citizens' money? However, I have decided to ask the question to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, but also to the first Deputy Prime Minister, and to the fact that the President of the Republic was on a private visit to Moscow yesterday, at a meeting that was hour and a half late, and probably none of the others are random, nor is it private, nor has the meeting been delayed for an hour and a half, which I could say deeply agree with, that ministers in the government are making wrong decisions, and I quote, because they do not find it, and sometimes because members of the government in Belgrade are not careful enough when they make decisions. It seems to me that all of these things that I have listed before and mentioned as possible issues stem from the fact that the ministers in the government are not careful enough, unconcentrated, and that they are not able to do their job. For this reason, I ask the President of the Republic exactly to which the Ministers of Government thought, is it for Minister Mihajlovic, whose job is energy, is he responsible for the President of the Government of Dacic, who, according to his office, is responsible for all areas and is he in charge of the first Vice-President of Mr Vukic, who is in the practical state of affairs in all areas? Are these ministers careless, do not cope and make decisions that are bad and that cause bad consequences for the citizens of Serbia? I ask the President of the State, the above-mentioned ministers, the Vice-President and the Prime Minister to make it clear to us why they haven't been able to handle it for a year and a half and when will they manage and when will they solve all these issues that exist in the country that they haven't been able to solve so far? On the contrary, all problems are deepening from day to day. These are not only the problems of relations with the Russian Federation, but they are relations with citizens of Serbia, whom, for God's sake, are threatened, because Serbia is said not to agree to blackmail. From who? From the citizens of Serbia? So how can Serbian citizens blackmail Serbia? Do some recognize it in that phrase: “The State, it’s me” and is it again on the scene the fact that we woke up an hour later than in time, and that we actually woke up 20 years later, that is, in time 20 years ago, when even freedom of speech is not allowed anymore? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25376	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) unanimously Decisions of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 2, 3 and 4 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. You've received a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25377	The President-in-Office, I would like to announce the violation of Rule 155 of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the National Assembly and the Government are delivering reports, i.e. opinion, as a rule, not less than five days before the start of the session of the National Assembly at which the bill is being considered. Today we have a joint principled search on the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Unfortunately, we didn't get the opinion of this committee. I'd like to have anyone from the SNS to ask where that answer is, but, as you can see, if the camera showed, there's only one SNS MP sitting here, so I don't think this kind of attitude towards parliament, this kind of degradation of parliament, is almost seen. I understand it's been a tough vote. I understand that people may be hungry, that they have barely counted the quorum, that they may have gone to the register, because there was no daily for them, but that we should still set a break in work and wait for questions of the government, because in this atmosphere, discussing such an important law is really inappropriate and best paints the relationship of the SNS to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25378	Thank you. Mr. Milivoevich, just to open the session and then we'll take a break. We won't discuss this until Monday, and by then the committees will have their opinions. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25379	With regard to Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also have direct knowledge of the session of the Committee on Justice and State Administration, because as a member of the Committee on Justice and State Administration today we tried between 9.30 and 11.00 hours to implement the draft laws that are practically included in the agenda today. On the side that the Committee itself had entered the agenda were those draft laws that were not on the agenda of the plenary session at the time. This totally went beyond the practice of the National Assembly. So what's not in the picture and what's not in the proposed agenda is coming to consider the board where we're in an awkward situation because we don't even know how to prepare for it to be. This aside, in some ways, we have been deprived of the right of MPs to participate adequately in the Committee's work, but in addition, on unofficial information, the Committee on Justice and State Administration should meet on Monday, and yet, according to unofficial information, the National Assembly should continue to work on Tuesday. I don't know if it will or won't, but that's why I'm telling you, and I'm asking you, since you're in charge of taking care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure and in view of Article 155(4), that the committees and the Government are delivering reports and their opinions, as a rule, not less than five days from the date of the start of the session at which the bill is being discussed, if there is a committee on Monday, don't schedule a session of the Assembly before Saturday next, because it's usually five days. If there's any reason earlier, here, we were ready to talk today. (President: Time, Mr. Mikovic. ) Mr Nenad Konstantinović and I were and were ready...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25380	In order not to violate the Rules of Procedure, it's been two minutes and 30 seconds. I thank you. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors. Given that it is now 3:25 p.m., that at 4:00 p.m., the government's presence is expected to continue with the session, I'll just let you know, and I'll answer your question, that next session will be held on Monday at 10.00 p.m. after this search. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25381	Article 27. You've opened the agenda point and at this point, when you've opened the agenda, we don't have the Committee's opinion, nor do we know when the Committee will be scheduled. The Justice Committee, whose member I am, has not yet been scheduled. There was talk that Monday would be the Justice Committee. When?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25382	Mr. Mikovic, you're telling the same story.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25383	No, you've opened the point, so I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25384	Yeah, I opened it. We won't start arguing until you get a report from the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25385	But you've opened the dot.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25386	Yeah, I opened it. (Hope of Kolundji, from the city: That's when you broke the Rules of Procedure. I'm setting a break by 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25387	We're going back to work. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome in your and my name the students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, who are currently following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. Given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia informed the National Assembly that the next members of the government were unable to attend today's session, where the government was asked parliamentary questions: Aleksandar Vukic, Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister Ivan Tasovac, Culture and Information Minister Milan Bačević, Minister of Natural Resources, Mining and Spatial Planning, and Aleksandar Vulin, Minister without portfolio. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refer to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister, or to a government, out of their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The Government, or the Minister, must answer the oral question immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, or if they have to explain it immediately, and send the reply to the MP in writing within eight days, from the date on which the question is asked. If, in the preparation of the response to the parliamentary question, it is necessary to establish certain facts, whose determination requires a longer or more complex analysis, the time limit for responding to the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. The competent minister shall address the National Assembly for the longest five minutes to answer the question. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question, or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replication and apportionment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to submit applications for questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly by giving a change of word first to MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first is MP Riza Halimi. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, my question is linked to the recent tragic event in Bujanovac when a police officer and the atmosphere that was created unfortunately on that occasion, about a flooded one, let me say, the atmosphere of various articles and false information about the largest village with the Albanian population in Presevo Valley, Velika Trnovec, about whom unfortunately again, it is not the first time, that creates a fake image as to the Balkan drug centre in which, as it is said in these incorrect inscriptions, I can find tons of drugs and in which there are probably no more than 7,000 inhabitants, it is said that there are more than 6,000 drug traffickers. It means maltenes that both children and students and teachers and doctors and all in a row, and even executives, and even the president of the municipality, are all drug traffickers. Here is the question – what leads, where does it lead, and who needs to create this tense situation, and why does the authorities not give the appropriate answers, especially when next to this twisted picture with drugs is a parallel to another play, and again not for the first time, that the police allegedly cannot enter the Great Trnovec, which is a notorous lie? It's been quiet for a long time. It's only now that it's embarrassing to hear a statement that there's still one police checkpoint there and that the gendarme two, three times a day passes through the Great Trnovac, and I'm adding that at least 15 police officers, local police officers live there. What's the idea of not getting the police into this big neighborhood? Now I'm afraid in this situation... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... In line with this situation, I ask the question -- why is the identity of the killer not given, and if it is true that the killer has moved on to Kosovo's territory, has EULEX and the Kosovo police been formally asked to definitely process this serious incident? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25389	Does anyone want to give an answer? The word has Prime Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25390	I'm not going in now, ladies and gentlemen, to explain this whole case. According to information that the MUP and police have on the event, the perpetrators are in Kosovo's territory and intensive work is under way on additional information. It's about people who participated and who are part of this illicit trade, the truth, not narcotics, but cigarettes. Anyway, I support what Mr. Halimi pointed out. I think we should work on establishing as much trust as possible in that part of our country. With that in mind, I received a delegation from representatives of Albanians from the south of Serbia. The Serbian government also adopted conclusions on Zoran Stankovic's proposal when it comes to the three municipalities of southern Serbia. The ministry will work to make that deal happen. What is important for Serbia is that it is certain that Albanians living in southern Serbia should fully integrate into Serbian institutions and Serbian society and that all the problems that exist are solved through dialogue. Surely that does not mean that various criminal acts or hostile actions may be allowed, which is related to the violation of our territorial integrity. There shouldn't or shouldn't be a village in our country where the police can't come. We should work together to determine the full truth about this case and all the others that happened in that part. There are many murders among Albanians or crimes that have not been solved in the past. Serbia's government is ready to discuss and track down what was discussed and negotiated ten years ago after 2000, when problems in southern Serbia broke out. In any case, tensions need to be avoided, the situation needs to be calmed down. The police have not issued a statement in that sense in which you spoke either. Those were more media reports, and official statements will be issued when the whole case is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25391	Thank you. Riza Halimi, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25392	I thank you for the notice and for the information in which, in my view, there are many things that I did not know until this moment without further knowing that there is a common interest, that the role of the MUP and the police is fully realised, as in every other part of the state, and that is why it is required of all factors in society that this area is treated the same in all domains, both economically and socially and politically and in every sense. It should not be said of this area, as so far, only when there are incidents, that there should still be a second cause, that there are positive things. I believe a process has been initiated, what the prime minister just said, in which it should take a long time to solve the accumulated processes. Since the first meeting with Mr. Vukic and this last one with Mr. Dacic, now the two most responsible heads of government and the state at all, they promise that things will go in a positive direction. I don't think it should allow any weakness of the state authorities, in this case, for the police to cover their weaknesses over these sensational issues. Let it be seen whose responsibility it is, because for a long time this instruction to be expected to drive with a huge amount of drugs, and the police send only one patrol, I think it was absolutely illogical. It's time for the authorities in this case to provide more detailed information, so there's no room for different interpretations, which would create unnecessary confusion. I'm in favour of solving this case as effectively as possible and that one or more persons, as far as it's involved, get the fine they deserve, because it's really a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25393	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25394	I've got three minutes and a lot of questions, so I'll be on my way. I expected there to be more ministers here, those who should hear my question, but still. Mr. Dacic, why is it that in bringing in suspects of economic crime, he acts by humiliating and insulting their basic human dignity? I saw Peter Matijević, a respected businessman, incarcerated with handcuffs, bowed heads, pressed to look at the ground, as if he were some big villain or drug dealer. Petar Matijević is a good businessman. He employs two thousand people. His estates have been modeled and there's no reason to treat him like this. What's being treated like that for? The second question is for Mrs. Mihajlovic. Has Serbia given up its commitments in Kyoto, that it will reduce the use of fossil fuel combustion and replace them with biorenewable fuels? I'm asking this because the biodiesel factory in Shid is not working yet because the excise duties have not been abolished, which has been imposed on imports of biodiesel from Germany. That's why imports stopped and at pumps in Serbia, drivers can't buy biodiesel at all. A question for Mr. Finance Minister Krstic. Your previous colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, decided at this time last year that revenue from the Land Administration, the Water Administration, the Forest Administration, is being expunged and introduced as revenue from the budget, giving money to the spoon for their projects, in a significantly reduced volume. And this year, work in these three areas has been significantly reduced to a smaller extent. Is there any chance that money, these original revenues, will return to these administrations, that they can normally finance their ventures? One more question for Mr. Glamocic. This year's 2013 sowing, the most important business task, will be done worse than we expected, because peasants have no money, sowing their seeds that are less born, have no money to buy fertilizer. I suggested that the Reserve Directorate be granted a short-term loan in the dinars, to lend to the warlords, to buy fertilizer and seeds. This would be returned in 2014 by delivering grains, of which Serbia could have a large foreign exchange income for exporting perhaps millions, two million tonnes of wheat. Is there any chance that this can be introduced and resolved before the term of the seed is over? Otherwise, what a crop, such a harvest. The set is bad, so there is no chance of a larger breed in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25395	Does anyone want to give an answer? The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25396	Here, Zechariah showed how he could ask everyone in three minutes. First of all, I'd like to say that today is present, I think 13 members of the 21st government, and I think it's a very significant number, given some practice in the earlier period. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: You were gone for half a year. It's not up to us. You know how much I like to come to the Assembly. Therefore, if you have such desires, whenever you address me, I will come. I'm absolutely not running away from it, and I really don't think it's any problem, on our part. I've heard there will be changes to the Rules of Procedure, that it may be more than once a month, twice or so. We're absolutely in favour and supportive. After all, the essence of political struggle is controversy, different attitudes, and this is the best place, with elected representatives of the people. When it comes to what Mr. Trnavcevic asked about the arrests, it certainly must be taken care of by the dignity of the people. No one's guilty until proven guilty. Unfortunately, there have been different cases in our practice. It was always about the other way around. I can absolutely agree with that approach, if he's comprehensive. It's not good to think of some people just when it comes to them, like someone else doesn't have their dignity, like someone else doesn't have their own family, and it's like the rights of individuals are affected only when one of them is on the agenda. I guess we should systematically fight one of those practices. I'm not talking about this particular case right now, I'm talking about it in general. You know, there are times when someone complains that there's a media link against someone, and while others were exposed to the same media link, I haven't noticed that anyone was giving any kind of reaction. Let me give you an example. You know I acted whenever someone was threatened, always, and gave orders to the police, etc. and politically reacted that no one in this country should threaten anyone. I didn't hear any of you plead, that he made any statement about what happened, for example. He's been threatening my kids for months. What now, you have families and I don't? Be correct then to everyone. We're fighting violence. Being rude and violent is not a matter of democratic principles, it's a thing for the police. When it comes to the rights of people who are arrested, detained and tried, I absolutely agree that it must all be in accordance with the law and respecting their dignity. Institutions are important and the way it works is important. I've always been against it. You know, I've told the police several times that, in my opinion, when it comes to the footage, that it should be, and when it comes to classical crime, all this other thing should be taken into account in how it can be misused. I'm not sure that's what the police always do. The police won't let go of that footage, but there's that somewhere. We need to create a system that will be equally just for everyone, whoever is in one, second or third position. When Dragan Djajic was arrested, few people reacted in such a way, very little.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25397	Mr. President, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25398	I agree with you, Mr. Trnavciæević, but don't you find... I don't know where you found Mattievich. I didn't notice that his video was... What? (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the place: What did you not notice? The police didn't record it. When it comes to that, it should also be discussed with the media. Let me tell you one thing. The way the police act, it's meant by law. If they broke the law, they know how to handle it. If they haven't broken the law, whether or not someone is tied up, it's a matter of assessing a competent police officer doing so. It's not a question of human rights or not. The second question is the recording and publishing of such recordings, and the third question is the publication of full names and last names. You have a situation where the biggest thugs and criminals are published under a pseudonym, and some under a full name and last name, but that's now the thing to deal with RRA.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25399	Time! Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25400	All I'm accepting is what you're saying is that it needs to be systemically resolved. It's such an old thing, I'm surprised it hasn't been solved yet. In this case, it doesn't matter, Mr. Dacic, who recorded it. Of course the police didn't record it, but they recorded journalists, photographers who were. They didn't record the moment the police raided Mr. Matijević's garden, as if there was really an operation where there was a risk that Matijević would escape, etc. I didn't ask, and you also know that there's been a violation of the right of suspects, which is that they were held in an investigative prison for several months, much longer than the nature of the offence itself demanded. It is wrong and the Constitutional Court has admitted to Mr Miroslav Miskovic that the investigation prison was too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25401	Thank you. Since the electronic unit's not working, I'm uncomfortable, but I have to ask you to change the place. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25402	Dear Mr Trnavcevic, away from Serbia giving up any obligations when we talk about protecting the environment, not because it is an obligation, but because we have to take care of it. So, according to our national plan for renewable energy sources, excise duties will certainly be removed in 2015. That is how it is determined and it is in accordance with all the directives. In the meantime, there's a rule about tuning. You probably know all about it. So that's the period that our economy needs to be able to use at all. But it's not just Serbia, let me tell you right now, it's mostly all the other countries of Southeast Europe. One more thing. Speaking of giving up any of our obligations, knowing that certain things are a process and that everything we do, especially in this area, which is one difficult area and area in which, ultimately, we have to prepare ourselves for opening negotiations next year, Chapter 27. You should also know that Serbia adopted the so-called "Energy Community" last week. The LCP directive, in which also fossil sources, when we first talk about thermal power plants, by 2027, will either slowly or have to become completely clean electricity producers or, if too many hours of work have been online, they will have to be removed. At the first moment, let's say, that directive was set for 2018, so it was realized that it wasn't possible, because the whole region would, for example, run out of thermal power plants. What I'm trying to say is that it applies to this as well. I understand your question for one company, I understand why you ask that, but, on the other hand, there's a plan and a strategy entirely in line with our capabilities, but also with what's called our obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25403	You're entitled to two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25404	I cannot help but feel that in this case Serbia's fiscal interest has surpassed this environmental interest and the obligation to expand and increase renewable energy production. It is said that both the oil lobby and the foreign "Gaspetrol" etc., which do not want this kind of competition. I don't see any reason to wait in 2015 and to lift the excise duty on imports of biodiesel from Germany, as I don't see any reason to wait until then, and not tomorrow, this hour, with one of your decisions and excise on domestic biodiesel and that the factory in Shida is starting to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25405	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic. The system doesn't work very well. I know that first he should have, before Trnavčević, but we won't miss anything if Mr. Minister uses his two-and-a-half minutes. Don't react to that now. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25406	I'll just take a minute. As far as your own income is concerned, that's one complex question. As for the Water Administration itself and others, it is also a complex issue because it is necessary to find the right balance between institutions that have previously realised their own incomes, which actually collect these taxes and other things, being motivated to continue to do so, but on the other hand, we have to consider the fact that all these revenues, especially those coming from monopolies that the state has defined to certain institutions, must be kept at the state level and simply prioritize where we need them. It's basically the essence of the conversations we've had with all the institutions, including water management. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25407	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Andric. (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the place: I am not satisfied with the answer. Mr. Trnavcievich, you have no right. Please, sit down. Does Mr. Dragan Andric want a word? Then there's the word of Parliamentarian Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25408	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you. The "Bird of Broken Wings" was erected in 1994 in Subotica, in memory of 852 civilians executed in 1944 and 1945. This monument was stolen ten days ago, exactly two weeks before "The Day of the Dead" the day when the Hungarian national community remembers its innocent victims from 1944 and 1945, and the same time of course we remember the victims of other peoples or nations that died during that period. A specific question for you, Mr. Dacic - why did the government not answer about the shameful act of stealing the "Bird of Broken Wings" monument in Subotica? When does the government want to react to this event? I want to tell you that we do not view this event as just stealing, even less, we consider it to be an attack only on victims and their families, but we think it is a message addressed to the Hungarian national community that can disrupt the process of improving relations between the Serbian and Hungarian people. That's why we think the government should react. The second question, Mr Dacic, is why has the government not yet made a decision to put two decisions out of the legal force since 1945, which all residents of both the Hungarian and German nationalities of the three Vojvodina villages declare collectively war criminals? I would like to remind you that at the end of June, this National Assembly adopted the Declaration on the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in 1944 and 1945, that the day following the adoption of that declaration by the President of Hungary, Mr Ader once again apologized to the Serbian people, here in the National Assembly of Crimes was committed in 1941 and 1942. That you, at a joint press conference, promised publicly that the government would soon put out of legal power and three decisions from 1945. It's been a long time, and that's why I'm asking you-- when does the government finally want to put out of the legal force these two decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25409	The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25410	As you said yourself, the monument in Subotica was set in 1994 and all the indications the police have are not aimed at having an international or political background. 400 kilos of bronze was stolen, but there were other plates on which the names were fired. The Subotic Police Administration has formed a special group to shed light on this crime, and of course they would be very pleased if the perpetrators were discovered. Otherwise, the tendency in Vojvodina is that the least criminal acts committed on this international basis are these years, that this number is reduced year by year, and that this certainly contributes to the atmosphere of political tolerance and conversation, dialogue, not only with neighbouring countries, but also in Serbia, including the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. Be assured that the Serbian government, or the MUP, will do everything, that, as with other crimes similar to those of the species, the perpetrators are found. I mean, since 1994, we've had a lot of difficult international years, the truth not in Vojvodina, but when the tension was much higher and higher so I can't believe that today 2013 was done for international, political or religious reasons. In any case, of course we strongly condemn such acts. When it comes to the second issue, the Government, or the General Secretariat of the Government and, personally, as prime minister, we wait that, as I said then, someone should prepare those decisions. To deliver these proposals to the Ministry of Justice so that it could be decided. Since one issue of political decisions and the declaration that has been made here, and the other question now is how do all the legal facts that once had in some way undo it, but to make it all just and in some ways be part of what was done when other peoples were concerned. In any case, at all Serbian citizens, we are going further towards normalising and deepening our relations with Hungary. I think our relationships are on the rise and that was when the two presidents met the Republic. It was an integral part of the whole event, and I hope that this act will be in the cabinet session very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25411	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25412	Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you for being here in front of the public in the National Assembly, saying that you strongly condemn the theft of that monument, but I think the government should have done so in good time. Right away, to make it clear to everyone what the government's message is about such an act. I don't want to be imprecise, but please answer me clearly – what if such theft, for example, happened in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija? Would the government react then? I think she'd react. I think she should react, and I think in this case she should have acted in good time, too. I want him to react immediately. On the other hand, I have asked these questions to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, not the Minister of the Interior. Thank you for sharing information with us about the fact that the police are doing their job, we had no doubt about it. But I think that message is the most important, and the message has to come from the government, it has to be clear and it has to be judgmental about this act. You are, of course, right when you also list a declaration of condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population and a common sacrifice in front of victims in Curug of President Nikolic and President Ader. But on the other hand, there's still no government decision. I think it should have been made by November 1st and it would have been a real message then because it is the government's technical decision, but not making that decision unfortunately carries political and negative political messages. As for the 1945 decision, I just want to quote one sentence in that decision from January 29, 1945. So I quote: “The State Commission for the Identification of Crimes of Occupiers and Their Assistants finds that all inhabitants of the Hungarian Nationality of the Municipality of Curug, a cut of the Froglski in Vojvodina, are responsible as perpetrators, instigators or helpers for the crimes and declares them war criminals. ” What can be disputed, Mr Dacic, in 2013 regarding the fact that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia there cannot be one decision that speaks of the collective guilt of all members of a nation in three villages in Curug, Frog and Moshorin? I expect answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25413	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25414	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the government, dear fellow MPs, I will try as well as Mr. Zechariah Trnavcevic to ask as many questions as I can in the first address, and since we have spent a lot of time I promise not to report for further explanations that as many people as possible might be able to ask the government's representatives a question. My first questions concern the Ministry of Defence, Mr Rodic, I would ask – what are the plans of the Ministry of Defence regarding the Bodrog ship and will it be in use soon? My second question also to Mr Rodic – what all of the Ministry of Defence has done in the plan to solve the housing problem of members of the military since July 2012 i.e. Since when has this government been formed, and what are the plans for the future when it comes to solving this, for a long time, burning problem? I just want to tell Mr Rodic that you have the support of our MP club, only because of how you acted, how you worked at the place you worked until you came to the Ministry of Defense, and I hope that you will continue to work in this ministry as well. My next question is the Department of Justice. Unfortunately, the minister of justice is not here, but if there is a possibility perhaps the prime minister could respond, or I will settle for a written response. It refers to the law on the origin of the property, as far as it came with the making of the law on origin of the property, and when is the law expected to come to parliamentary benches? We believe that the adoption of this law is extremely important, especially as this government has shown its commitment to combat corruption and crime, but without adoption, as you yourself said, that we must fight systematically, you have just told Mr. Trnavčević, we are just sharing your opinion, when it comes to the systemic struggle with crime, and we believe that there will always be space and bitter taste that this fight is and has some priorities, that it is selective until we see the law on the origin of the property, and as long as things are finally called the right name. I would use the presence of the Minister of Sports, Mr. Udovic, and since I still ask the President of the Assembly, who is not here, but I would like to appeal to you to help us, when it comes to solving a problem that may not be large but we believe it is useful. Namely, always, i.e. In the last few terms, there was also a Radio Committee on Sports and Youth in the Assembly. I think that this committee worked great, that we had great communication with the competent ministry, that we MPs had great communication, that we normally cooperated, that maybe one of the few committees where there was always a quorum, and where there was no party, political bickering and politics. I would ask you to help us jointly to influence the President of the Assembly, to relive the committee with our work and to be sure that we will help you greatly in all those problems that are not small and that you are facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25415	I just want to remind you that today is a matter of government, ministers and a representative of the government. Does anyone want to give an answer? (Yes) The word has Professor Dr Nebojsa Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25416	Mr. Gojkovic, thank you for asking. As surprised as I was by the question, I was so surprised when I met the problem of the boat that "Bodrog", I must tell you first, I found it interesting why I even named a boat "Bodrog", because it was a corridor made in 1904. I must tell you that it will not be used and will not be part of Serbia's military fleet. It is about a corridor that is not for exploitation and is not for use, and it was built in 1804 in a way that in 1914 the ship was used to fire the first grenades on the city of Belgrade, early in the great war, that in 1918 the ship was submerged by Austrians, that after three years it was removed from the Danube. The same fate came upon him in 1941 when he was drowned again but this time by the army of the kingdom of Yugoslavia. In 1994, it was submerged by the natives of Croatia and was exploited until 1963. Since 1963, this ship has not been actively used, today it is located, it is part of our history I must say, it is completely difficult to explain and acceptable, on the coast of Dunava near Ada Huja and serves as a dock, serving as a dock for the passage from the ship that is tied to the mainland. Legally, it is owned by the company "Dunav group of aggregates" from Novi now, contrary to the legal rules that were declared culturally good of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 by the resolution of the Museum of Science and Technology of Belgrade, which was established under the number 234/1 in 2006. He wouldn't be able to right now, because we don't have the resources to get him back on board. It's a reality and a great shame, since only 10 ships like that were made in the world. Our plan, and we delivered a letter to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that this trough, this ship, is drawn to the mainland, to be located at the mouth of the Danube, in the same position as it was in 1914 at the very beginning of the great war and to serve as a museum. In this way, I think that we could put it into operation in the time period of July 28th 2014 so that by November 11, 2018, when the end of the great war will be marked, we have as a museum. To take advantage of the opportunity when you raised the issue that at the same location we would set up a mini-mask that belonged to the Serbian Army, wishing that in this space used by the Serbian Army, we would make an exhibition space that could be interesting for the young generation, i.e. those who are only able to see it in some video, as was done on Serbian television a few weeks ago. I must say that I have personally visited the ship, seen it and that it represents, blaming myself, a reflection of our relationship to cultural goods, given that I was able to see how our neighbors managed to restore it, to put it into function and to be floating, which we will not, because of absolute material inability, nor do we intend to do. I think it's quite enough to get the ship out and make it a museum space where everything that happened in Belgrade and Serbia would be looked at in 1914-1918. That's what I could tell you when it comes to a boat called Bodrog, named after the Bodrog River, which springs in Slovakia, and intrudes in Hungary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25417	Have you answered again, Mr. Gojkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25418	If we can just get an explanation for the apartments, since it's still a more important question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25419	The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25420	Respect, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to thank you for your advice. By my appointment, I realized that one of the committees that wasn't here in the assembly, in a conversation with the president of the assembly, we agreed that it would happen in the next period. As far as I'm concerned, today there was a vote on the formation of the Sports Committee itself. I hope it comes soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25421	The word has Minister Rodic. You have three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25422	If I may give a brief answer. So, during the time period when this government meeting was established, up to today, in Serbia, 1572 people resolved their housing issue by one of the regimes used under the rule. What we intend to do according to the master's plan is assign a total of 625 apartments using real estates that will be participation and concession for building housing units on the principle that has already been used and which has proved to be respectable when it comes to the Army of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25423	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25424	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have three questions. The first question is for Minister Lazar Krstic. Let's do some preventive measures to save this fallen economy. Foreign banks have been destroying Serbian businessmen in recent years by forcing credit users to sign a contract that says they are granting an autonomous right to the bank, if it has some conviction that the commissioner is not sure in the future, that he is blocking the economic account, even though the businessman pays both time and credit. We have several groups, A, B, C, G, I don't know how many groups, credit users, or committees, and that banks are working to harm the Serbian economy. Please answer that question – will it be a reduced deposit with the National Bank of Serbia? I don't know how, but the behavior of these foreign banks has to be stopped. It's a question for the Minister of Industry. Mr. Minister, we also need to react urgently to begin the contractors in Serbia to be Serbian factories, Serbian businesses. We inherited it, it was years ago, but over the last year and a half, all the tenders that were published, all those tenders that Serbian businessmen went out to have lost because they either had no bonus or had to produce something, kilograms, meters, so much so that all the factories in Serbia that do not have that amount of necessary goods or I don't know what in the tender and that slowly, and certainly, we are shutting down those companies that don't have restructuring status. We need to see how these companies can be helped. Given that companies that have that status, in March of the month, or June of next year, that status of restructuring is lifted, and we're going to let them run down the water and they don't know how to swim. Please, don't just deal with the measures that we're gonna do. Of course, we should also deal with this, but how can that money that is allocated from the state budget from the city budget be the municipalities of the Serbian company's works. These others, who are contractors, engage subcontractors, Serbian businesses, at a lower price of up to 45%. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. I was in Vienna for three days and took 600 students to Vienna. I went around... (President: Mr. Markovic, please... Let me finish. I've got three more sentences. I went to the green market in Vienna and saw what agricultural products sold at the market in Vienna look like. Serbian agricultural products are ten times better quality, I won't say nicer, but how can we help a Serbian peasant? He's just looking for a secure buyer and in time for his money to be paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25425	Mr. Markovic, I suggest to you, from good intentions, since the answer to the question is only five minutes, you cannot get an answer within these five minutes. So I suggest you ask your questions in two parts and then you get an answer. Do you understand? You have two other minutes when you can ask a question. Like this, I'm afraid, you won't be able to get an answer. Does anyone want to answer? The word has Minister Lazar Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25426	As for the banking sector, I believe that there is competition in the foreign banking market, as well as domestic banks and that the companies seeking credit can ask different banks for credit. These contracts are made by themselves. I'm not aware that there's a member, nor do I think it's in accordance with the law, but a member of that contract can be that the bank itself makes an assessment, and without the client not settling his obligations, to put them in a blockade. It's a matter that's negotiated between committees and banks, either side, whether domestic or domestic, and domestic banks, you know perfectly, as well as foreign ones, are equal on our market. As for the mandatory deposit policy of the National Bank of Serbia, it is a domain for which the National Bank of Serbia is responsible, not the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25427	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25428	I have a question for the Minister of Economy. He needs to answer my question. Should I repeat the question or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25429	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25430	I didn't hear that the question that was asked to the Minister of Industry was, since you referred the question to the finance minister. It is a plan to restructure all businesses, to place them on healthy feet in terms of being cleared from debt, so that they can continue their normal business, to find proper management and to find investors who will help the company continue to operate. You've well noticed that we have a big problem with taking credit for jobs that go to foreign companies, not domestics, losing a lot of money, losing the growth we should get in gross social product. To get to that, we need to put these companies on healthy feet. That's the plan for all of them. We know how we're going to clean up these companies' debt, so they can keep doing business. It is likely that some companies will have to come together, since they will not be able to survive in themselves, but that is, the focus of the Ministry of Economy, the laws we are changing are also intensively needed to enable this process to be implemented more effectively. These are the key questions we're working on today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25431	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. You have three more minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25432	I have an additional question, that is, to repeat – how can we help farmers? It's a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Will we protect agricultural products in Serbia from being imported in quantity, how much has been imported in recent years, and cause direct damage to agricultural producers? I suggest, Ministers of Agriculture, that you organise several trips and take farmers to Europe, that farmers take their products in bags, bags and show those who buy some agricultural products from some other countries in Europe that Serbian products are the best. Since we are told that we will not enter the EU for 20 years, so the Serbian peasant will not fail in 20 years, but will destroy villages and no one will live in the country anymore. All those estates will be empty. It's a question for the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25433	The word has a Minister Glamocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25434	I thank Mr. Palma for asking. Of course the Ministry of Agriculture is the main goal of protecting our producers. That's exactly what we're working on and we're taking a series of steps to do it. What our producers need to be aware of is that we cannot prevent free transport of services, that they must increase their productivity, to offer at better prices, to make products as high as possible. But anyway, we work on our side with incentives, with grants, with regression, with insurance, with a number of measures in our domain, that part we encourage and will certainly have our help by the ministry. If you have any concrete suggestions, we are at your disposal at all times. You can announce yourself or manufacturers who are interested, we are at our disposal to work together on this. We have a common goal - our strong agricultural producer and we are aware that if we do not prepare, our agricultural producers will be threatened when we open the market. Every year, the market is increasingly open and open.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25435	Minister Aleksandar Antic has three and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25436	I would like to answer the question asked by Minister Radulovic, since I did not hear that in that part of my colleague Radulovic looked back, and it is about the participation of domestic firms in tenders and the possibility of them doing certain projects. First of all, I want to look back at infrastructure projects. Unfortunately, a huge number of these contracts have been signed in such a way that mostly foreign companies' consortiums have taken these contracts and, in most cases, they generally provide project management, and a good part of the job is performed by domestic operatives, but in such contractual situations and options that they work at 30% or 40% below the agreed price, in an attempt to provide themselves with any job. The policy of this government will be to try to ensure such conditions in the tenders in the coming period so that domestic companies can perform on them. We're going to promote the option of them going out together in consortiums on these kinds of jobs, and we're going to try, first of all, on these credit lines, to make sure that we don't get what's been happening to us in the past few years. We take from some government or some investment fund credit, we do a project under their terms, the job gets their firms and that money comes out of this country. In the end, I have to say that if there's a good example, and I think it's a good example of what we did about the Beška Bridge. That job was given to the Alpina. The "Alpine" went bankrupt. We have managed to ensure such tender conditions that the Bridge, a domestic company, a state-owned company, gets the job and the Bridge has just completed the reconstruction of the Beška Bridge and it is a good thing for our construction operation and it is a good reference for the Bridge for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25437	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25438	Mr. Agriculture Minister, farmers need advice on what to meet next year. They have no statistics on what has been deficiting in Serbia since agricultural products this year. It is one request to say in December – next year the state recommends that the agricultural producer sows here and that culture. Let me ask you one more time. You know that apparently milk has been infected with aflatoxin, and it is not true that Serbian food has been poisoned, that some have tried to destroy the Serbian producer and that we have to organise, whether it will be a summit or a different set, you as a minister of agriculture, large European consumers of agricultural products to come to Serbia. Here, I am reporting as a host, to have this meeting in Jagodina, to make a presentation of agricultural products and to tell them that Serbia has the best agricultural products in Europe. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25439	I must remind the MPs that the MP has the right to ask a question in three minutes and an additional question in three minutes, and two minutes has the right to comment on the answer, not to ask a question. The minister has the right to answer the first question, i.e. the first question in five minutes and the second one is asked another five minutes. Please behave like this. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25440	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected to the public of Serbia, I am asking the same question again, although this issue has been present in this house for several years since the Prime Minister Cvetkovic's time and I am referring it to Minister Radulovic and Minister Krstic, although I am not sure what the right address is at the moment, but I certainly expect an answer and I expect even a written answer after today's debate, because the issue is that it requires a more detailed, more concrete and accurate analysis for Serbia's public. In fact, Serbia is in an economic crisis, we are all aware of that. There are various ways to overcome the crisis. In 2010, a solution was offered, which was then announced as the right path to Eldorado. We have found a way to solve problems, and all of us will envy that, about everyone will prescribe that recipe from us. With the already existing diplomacy that we have in the world and which is representative and which truly shares Serbia's fate, the particularly difficult economic situation of Serbia, we also figured out that we should send economic ambassadors. Namely, they will be tasked with bringing investors to Serbia, raising Serbia's economy to its feet, and then Serbia should flourish, unlike everyone else in the environment. I think that's where more than 190 people are sent to different destinations. Even though it has been asked several times, I am the one who asked the government at the time, to this day we do not have the results of their work. Serbian citizens, since we are very often asked, are interested, following this ghastly announcement that they will bring salvation to Serbia, how much did they cost? How much did this economic adventure or financial adventure cost the Republic of Serbia's budget? How current is it now and what are the financial effects of economic ambassadors in the world? It's a question I think the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance should have an answer. I don't know how that jurisdiction is now redistributed, but in any case, we expect the answer. As far as the figures are concerned, I don't think the ministers can tell me these details about their business, but we certainly expect and we'll publish what we get in response from the ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25441	Does anyone want to give an answer? The word has Minister Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25442	We've done many projects in the past that we haven't worked for or analyzed in advance, or followed their implementation, or followed the effects that we've actually achieved. So we didn't announce what we were going to get with that measure, nor followed up on whether we got what we expected. I think it's time behind us, and that's how we're not going to run economic policy anymore. When we spare taxpayers' money to spend on some kind of program, then we have to say in advance what we expect from that program and then follow up on whether we're getting the effects we're expecting. Unfortunately, we've had very little effect on this program and I don't think this program will continue. On the other hand, the foreign ministry certainly plans, as the Serbian government's definition, to deal more with economic issues in the future. This also applies to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the use of our embassies in the world, so that even in these contacts that I have so far, the staff of the embassy that is already there, which is engaged in representing our country in our countries, will pay a great deal of attention to precisely economic development, representing Serbia and thus attracting investors. I don't think we need any extra spending on economic ambassadors or other similar programs. I think we should go back to some basic things, just like other countries in the world do. It is not necessary to invent hot water and to deal very carefully with taxpayers' money, especially because when you take money from a taxpayer and give it not some programme, you have done some damage somewhere and the question is whether this programme we are taking really gives value to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25443	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25444	Mr. Minister, you just answered the question the way I thought you could answer it. So it was an economic or financial adventure. So, without research, without serious thinking, we put more than 190 people, I said, to expensive destinations on the cost of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's very important. I know it's history, but that money was spent and you said yourself that the effect was not there. We're all aware that there was no effect. We are interested, above all, in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in how much they spent money in that period, how much did they cost us? Second, where are they now? Where are those people now? Is this economic diplomacy still living somewhere? Does it continue to spend money in any way, since it is still something that is extremely relevant to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Everyone now in Serbia is worried about every day. We have a great responsibility to give them adequate information every day on where the money from the Republic of Serbia's budget is spent that citizens are having a difficult time collecting.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25445	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25446	We'll try within this legal deadline of eight days to deliver this information on cost analysis.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25447	Thank you. The word has Minister Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25448	As far as the Ministry of Economy is concerned, that programme will be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25449	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25450	Dear President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions for the Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Mr Mirovic, and, indirectly, for the Minister of Economy. It is, in fact, that the strategy of equal regional development, which was adopted in 2007, expired last year. I wonder if the minister, of course, together with his team, is working on a long-term strategy that, in the opinion of the party I belong to, should be defined for the period until our country's framework entry into the European Union, which is defined by 2020? When it comes to balanced regional development, this is a priority issue for our country, which is whether we will execute and do economic democratisation of our country and that without even regional development, without equal opportunities, when it comes to regions and local self-government in our country, there is neither equality nor equal opportunities in national, nor in any other context or level. Here we as a party have defined two very important points. It's an education. I'm just going to give you a few bitter facts, which is that, let's say, in Jablanic and in the Pcinj County, 13% of the population doesn't have any education. So there's no profession, no qualification. In the environments that are university centers and where there is a developed form of education, that is not the case. I think you should focus on the development of secondary vocational education. I'll give you an example of Bor where from a few years ago with as many as seven classes in high school, where students have been educated and qualified to work at the Mining and Topipier Base, so far there's only one class left, and that's the picture by other undeveloped parts of our country. The second issue concerns companies in the restructuring process. As a party, we will have one proposal to educate the social foundations modeled in Austria, which would do professional diagnostics, through training to permanent employment or the definition of transit jobs, rapid response formations, the promotion of matches between municipalities at the level and the job of attracting investment and a healthy competition where we will be able to achieve balanced regional development in one quality way in a short term. My opinion and the attitude of the party I belong to is that... (President: Time, Mr Marinkovic. I thank you. I'm done. We need a factory in every major center, a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises. Please tell us what your plans and strategic directions are in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25451	Thank you. The word has Minister Igor Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25452	Thank you for that question. The Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government shall, above all, follow the law on regional development and, through the appropriate regulation, measure and analyse the degree of development of all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, hence all our areas or all of our regions. You're right, there are huge differences between certain municipalities, certain parts of our country in the degree of development, so that even the appropriate regulation treats certain municipalities and marks them as municipalities in so-called municipalities. the devasted category, therefore, such as those of the municipalities which, through that rough but in the appropriate regulation, the applied term best describes the situation in certain municipalities. After the appointment, I tried, above all through the Ministry's daily activities, to change my attitude towards priorities, when it comes to funding projects in municipalities that must, such as municipalities that are in the devasted category, and also in the fourth or third categories, which are under a degree of underdevelopment or a degree of development at the bottom of the scale of the Republic of Serbia, to put in place such priorities to give priority to these municipalities precisely to develop local, municipal infrastructure, but also to encourage overall local economic development, their degree of development. They will be the most important priority in the work of the Ministry of Regional Development for the next few years, and until we even down at least partially their economic parameters with the parameters of developed municipalities. In this regard, the National Regional Development Plan, which will see the light of day or be in the National Assembly, is also being prepared, I believe, within a very short time. Probably until the new year. Of course, we will wait for the other ministries, because it is a very complex document, to give their objections and consent to one such document which, when it comes to the Ministry of Regional Development, is in the final phase. We approach with the European partners and the strategy of decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, we join, for this is also a working group, amendments and the Law on Regional Development with a desire to form, above all, the economic poles of development and that, above all, when it comes to local economic development, we switch to the poles of development. These must be cities and municipalities that naturally represent administrative centres and regional economic centres and that, as half of development, with the help of competent ministries, time and more European funds, indeed signify one more quality economic development, especially underdeveloped. I managed for a short time to, I think, do a few things, which is to eliminate political criteria in the ministry's work. I keep talking about it on behalf of the ministry, I believe, and on behalf of the Government, that political differences can't be a criterion when the funds for local economic development are allocated to local self-government and I think that for the time being, I've been partially successful and I've managed to point out that your question is significant, and you point out that there are municipalities and cities, and especially municipalities in the Republic of Serbia that require much, much more attention from the state precisely because, if that attention remains, these municipalities will no longer exist for the next 20, 30 or 40 years. They will be devastated to that extent, so that they will no longer need the compensation of their minds and their help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25453	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25454	I thank you for your answers. I have a few more questions. The first question concerns this, the SDPS is very interested in the problem of infrastructure, the problem of road maintenance, especially now in this upcoming winter period, and concerns the Regulation on the categorisation of first and second-class national roads in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They were transferred to the jurisdiction of local self-government. We are interested in how and how will these roads be maintained and, of course, the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government in the domain of coordination and co-operation with other relevant ministries on strengthening infrastructure? You yourself just mentioned one fact that many devastated parts of Serbia do not have any infrastructure, no educational, no travel, no economic, so neither economic. I have even been, working several development strategies, taking part in these teams, in villages and parts in southern Serbia where people still watch TV over stabilisers, because they don't have enough power voltage, so I'm interested in the following – if it's not possible to bring to every village a good road or highway, which is, of course, in many cases, the desire of this government and the competent ministries, so we can bring "your-faj", so we can bring wireless internet. It will be one of the roads for young people in these places, in these devastated areas to have a way out into the world, not to be isolated, to be able to learn, to be informed, to work. That's what we can do. I think that, in good coordination with the Ministry of Trade, Telecommunications and Information Society, such projects can be implemented, and all in order for our young people to be as informed as possible, to be as educated as possible, and to have the information that over 35% of young people do not have jobs, that over 80% of young people as their priority have employment in government and state institutions, that this aspect that is most important for our party, the most painful in our country and in our economic life, we make it better and thus help young people, but also those who live in underdeveloped areas that they also stay down and that they can develop like those who live in developed areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25455	Does anyone want a word? (No) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25456	Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is actually about, I think that's the most urgent thing for the Minister of Education. You, Minister of Education, said or asked the public yesterday whether this was the bottom when you were faced with the situation that almost 100 children in Belgrade would be infected with bad or unhealthy food during the afternoon? Do you have the same question today, or have you come up with an answer? If you ask me, I don't think it's the bottom. I don't think the bottom is waiting for us until the moment you face the fact that you have 1,000 schools without an elementary toilet, they're making running water, and there's going to be another disease that's going to get worse in that situation. Three days ago, Mr. Jovanovic, you said it was your desire to implement the Finnish model in this country's education system. Yesterday you realized that some colleges at Belgrade University owe you for heating up 50 million dinars. How do you plan to settle that two models, Mr. Jovanovic? That is the same question for you, Mr Krstic – how do you suffer in the legal economic order of a public institution that owes public heating suppliers? What is the moral right then of the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, of your fellow Minister of Economy or of you to expect absolute financial and business discipline or to deliver ID cards from the FAP leadership and to ask FAP workers, and if FAP workers did not appoint this leadership? It is the first question for Mr Jovanovic and then for the Prime Minister and the finance minister. Now, I'd say a key political question, Mr. Dacic. Yesterday you were in London, and I don't know if you were able to see what the President of the Republic who visited Moscow did to you and your government. Did you clarify with the President of the Republic what order he gave to change the government's conclusion regarding co-operation with the Russian Federation? Is there a constitutional order, Mr. Dacic, in this country? Who can change the government's conclusions? Where exactly does the Constitution say the President of the Republic can do that? What is this manner of doing this in front of the president of another country who, by the way, had to wait 90 minutes, which is a humiliation to this country and what is a clear message for this country? Have you asked the President of the Republic that the Ministers are criticizing for you? What ministers of your government say they don't know each other? If you can't ask the President of the Republic, did you ask your minister, a member of your Government Milan Bačević? I don't think he means him. I think he means Mrs. Mihajlovic and some other members of your government. Who runs this country, Mr. Dacic? (President: Time.) ) Are FAP workers expected to put pressure on leadership to deliver ID cards, and the President of the Republic is allowed to annul the acts brought by the Government and what conclusion is this? Please let me get an answer to that question. It's very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25457	Does anyone want to answer? The word is made by Minister Tomislav Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25458	Dear Mr. Djuric, thank you for asking questions. I'm two months in an extremely complex system that employs nearly 150,000 people in the entire Republic of Serbia and every day gravitates about 2 million people, a system that is inert, but which we need to speed up. Of course, the efforts of all of us who participate in education, at the head of me, are to draw closer or even with an ideal called the Finnish model. That's what the fact is. But the fact is that every year we have problems at the university, the primary University of Belgrade, that a number of institutions, significant institutions in Belgrade, colleges have a problem with elementary things, with heating. The problem is solved every year only when the problem arises. I was at my initiative yesterday at the Belgrade University Senate and we talked openly about all the problems. One of the problems is the grumbling. I think we're going to solve this problem together and what I've referred to as the Belgrade City leadership today, a memo to try to solve together. It is a proposal from the University Senate to try to treat Belgrade's University the same way as the relations between the universities in Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad with city structures. The University of Belgrade's contribution is of equal or exceptional importance, not only to the Republic of Serbia as a national university, but also to what they want to be, and rightly so, especially with the references they possess and the status that they have, not only with us, but also in the world, to recognize both the city of Belgrade and to value these results, at least in the way that other universities, the city of Kragujevac and the City of Nis and the City of Novi Sad, are worth, not on a commercial basis, but on the basis of other cities that represent university centres. In the end, an unfavorable event that cannot be repeated, and that really represents the bottom of something that it does. Someone took the right to poison us yesterday over a hundred children. I am extremely pleased that the Belgrade Health Service has reacted in order to prevent serious consequences. 91 children were taken care of in two Serbian health institutions, adequate assistance was provided, and we will do everything we can to make sure it never happens again. This is what must not happen in Serbia, should not happen in any country in the world. In six different schools in different parts of Belgrade, children were in contact with contaminated food. Fortunately, it ended without permanent consequences. This has caused terrible damage to the education system of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's what I answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25459	The word has Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25460	I thought the minister and the prime minister wanted to answer, so you're denying them the opportunity. You know what, Mr. Jovanovic, thank you for that answer, but I think it's an obligation for both you and the professors, or members of the University Senate, to follow the political news around them. If you agreed to address the city authorities today, somehow I think it's normal that you looked at the news and that you realized a month ago that you destroyed the city's power and that there is currently no city authority in that sense in Belgrade, so I'm afraid you won't be able to get a positive answer. Secondly, let's speak Serbian. When you say it's not regulated on commercial grounds, does that mean they have cheaper heating? So who's gonna pay the difference, Mr. Jovanovic? Do you understand how contrary it is to what Mr. Radulovic, Mr. Krstic and Mr. Vukic are talking about? In Serbian, that means, the difference between the full price and the subsidized price, that's how FAP occurs, that's how railways come into existence, and that's how "Srbigas" occurs. That's what this is about. That's why the Finnish model can't, because the Finnish model has a price, it depends on the size of a social product, it's not possible in Serbia. And let him solve this problem for you at Belgrade University, for example. Member of the University Council – Minister Bacevic. I think it's a shame that the university that gave the honorary doctorate to Vladimir Putin kubura with the heating. Maybe you don't think, I think it's a shame. When Putina waits an hour and a half, she can devote part of the conversation to it. The doctor, of course, didn't take it, which is a relationship to this country. Mr. Krstic, when you say we have to balance, we have to take the maximum of those public revenues that come from the monopoly, the explosion of oil and gas is a monopoly. What did you say to President Nikolic and Mr Bačević when he left for Moscow – is it okay if the mine rent is 3%? Or, if you prefer to talk at the level of numbers – how much is your estimate that in 2013 there will be damage to local self-government, an autonomous province and the Serbian budget than the rent is three and not 7%? Without that, without explaining or answering these questions, there is no solution for FAP in Priboj. That's what you and those who send messages to FAP workers understand. It would be a more convincing requirement to get off the rails, so you can show them as the director of the Railways person who was elected to the competition and the person who meets the conditions that Minister Radulovic announces in his interviews. This is how it seems unconvincing. Mr. Radulovich, you're looking for IDs. Tell me, please – what is the "Serbian Railways" ID card? What will the citizens of Serbia receive for the 130,000,000 euros they will give? If they didn't give 130,000,000 euros, they could take each of us 20 euros and probably pay a cab, given how much they drive over the year. (President: Time.) ) Tell the citizens of Serbia what it is for that money. From you, Prime Minister, I expect an answer to the question – have you spoken to the president of the state?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25461	I must ask the MPs once again, if you want to get an answer, given the time available, then don't ask ten questions and these significant questions. You can deliver in writing. I agree, okay, you'll get in writing. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25462	I'd separate two segments of what you were talking about. Surely, in the parliamentary system, the Government and the President of the Republic play their part. Both organs are part of the executive government. The government of the Republic of Serbia determines and manages internal and foreign policy. Therefore, any suggestion, a proposal, criticism by the president can be considered, but the government is autonomously making its decisions. Secondly, I would like to point out that the Serbian government is committed to implementing the Agreement with the Russian Federation. You know that agreement wasn't signed during this government, it was signed years ago. On the other hand, it is our interest that such types of agreements strengthen our political alliance with a number of countries. Unfortunately, Serbia cannot boast of a large number of allies, and it would be very irresponsible for the Serbian government to interrupt or end any deal with the Russian Federation, at a time when we expect them to be our main political allies, when it comes to the UN. These contracts must be taken into account, because we are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on Serbian interests. I hope that the policy we're leading will lead to us no longer talking about what was five, six, seven, ten years ago, but to see what our economic interest is at this point. The realisation of the South Stream, due to begin in December, is worth 1.7 billion euros through Serbia. That's our interest. Also, financing the construction of the South Stream through Serbia will now be financed by the Russian side, and will pay Serbia back years later, part of the compensation Serbia needs to take from the gas flow. In any case, the minister will explain the documents. There's no problem here about the strategic relationship to the Russian Federation. I have to say, I wish I could have the English Prime Minister, the German Chancellor, the American President waiting 90 minutes, but we haven't gotten to that situation yet, because before that, Jahjaga or Thaci will get to her, but me. So, watch out, let's not break up the friendships and alliances we have. It shouldn't be the subject of different politicizations and there's no division. I think it's a bad impression that someone in the government is in favour or against co-operation. The Allies are getting there, and that's why we do everything we can to have it both with America and with Germany. I have to tell you, I don't think DS should be too loud when it comes to all these countries, especially Germany. What was your relationship with Germany, Angela Merkel's visit, which was the worst visit I've ever attended. Although you were German favourites in a certain period, we came to the conclusion that they had made a condition for us and were the first to mention the abolition of parallel institutions in the north, and we had and have with them the largest volume of external trade. (President: Time, Mr. President. What have we got? Did we get the support of the U.S. administration that we sold Sartid for $20 million? I don't know. Anyway, now it's costing us a hundred and something. But the Russian Federation has no political interest or military interest in our territory. We shouldn't expect from the Russian Federation. It is my criticism and our politicians, who say – we will now breast-feed Russian shoulders. It won't work that way. They want economic ties, friendly relationships, and I think we should go that way. Investment in NIS, I think, will be profitable in the long term and of interest to all Serbia. So, I'd like to develop cooperation with all countries as we started with the Russian Federation. I am not talking about a concrete agreement and an agreement regarding an energy agreement, because we were not involved in this. The Energy Agreement was agreed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica along with Boris Tadic. (President: Time, Mr. President. That's it. We are implementing an energy agreement, and it was signed by the only cohesive factor with the government, Velimir Ilic, indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25463	Thank you. Some MPs react because of the cost of time, think it will not come to order, but at the cost of an extension of three minutes that I will give Minister Mihajlovic to answer one very, for me, important question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25464	I won't be very long on the very case of half-private visitation and even commentary, etc. I'd say that this time Putin was more of a reaction, but I'll tell you what document it's about. The document was adopted on 9 August of this year and is called exactly - the initial basis for the alignment of the business plan and the long-term NIS development strategy. What did we really want? We wanted all those people who represent the Republic of Serbia in NIS, and we have 29% in NIS today, simply have the frameworks in which they move, that they can no longer happen to represent Serbia, and that maybe they don't work in the interest or work, or that they don't fight to use and preserve 29%, to fight for that NIS to do the best they can in those conditions. What the document contains can be seen. I think it's already been posted on the Ministry site by then, but now it's become interesting. I don't think anyone can mind, on the contrary. We worked it together with the people of the Oil Industry, from that someone representing Serbia would definitely advocate and increase revenues, expand NIS, increase production, possibly increase the number of personnel from Serbia, etc. So these are the things that we put in one such document. I'm not sure the real information came to the president when there's any problem with such a document, but I think this is the first time Serbia has said it - we have 29% there. That's very significant. Serbia's oil industry is a big charger of our budget. We want to keep it, and we want someone representing Serbia to make sure we don't lose that 29% tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25465	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25466	Such is the Rules of Procedure, obviously there is no time for Ministers Radulovic and Krstic to respond. At least, Mr. Dacic, you were talking about what I asked you about. You said - I don't mean a concrete agreement, and I asked you for a concrete agreement. It's not a small matter, it's a matter of the country's economic and energy sovereignty. When we lose it, we have nothing left. I listened very carefully to Minister Radulovic talking about the solution to the issue of "Serbiagas", says that "Serbiagas" has some debts, i.e. that some have claims towards "Serbiagas" and is talking about the conversion of capital claims. I heard you saying that "Serbiagas" owes the Russians. You know what, we're serious people and we can add one and one. Does this mean that the Russian side will also take possession of the "Serbiagas"? Well, since they owe the "Serbiagas" heat, does that mean the heat? I hope everyone here in the O.R. understands that, if members of that, I would say, the private political family delegation that was in Moscow don't understand. I don't know how there's been a confusion so the President of the Republic won't hear the real information. I doubt Mr. Bacevic, who was the only one there with him. They'd better have talked about a channel study than this serious stuff. So these are important questions, Mr. Dacic. I'm not going to ask any new questions, because you don't have any more, I think, according to the Rules of Procedure, the opportunity to answer me, but this is too serious. While you were in London, the President of the Republic was saying that we would be attacked by some First World War allies, how we would address Russia and Greece. That's why we can't get to Obama's turn, or because we misjudge that it's wrong before the election, so we lose the election? But these are the experiences of some others, not to repeat these mistakes now. (President: Time.) ) It doesn't matter at the end who turns out to be a shaker and who doesn't turn out to be a shaker, but thank you, Minister Mihajlovic. You have to understand that the president doesn't understand. He believes women must be hectic and scribbled.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25467	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25468	Respected members of the government, the Honorable Prime Minister, the question I ask is addressed to the Prime Minister, with regard to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. So, it is the turn that in this Assembly on this fateful matter, which will happen in two or three days and which threatens to forcefully deprive Serbia of at least 130 or 140 thousand of its citizens, it is the turn to say something about it in this Assembly, at least the tenth speaker as I am today. Namely, these elections are the elections or the anti-elections that are clear to everyone. There is still no record of the electoral list on which these elections will be held, and no voter's list is known and what will stand on it, two or three days before the election. As far as the government is concerned, Mr. President, it has managed to create an atmosphere of fear in Serbs in Kosovo, and in Serbia to create an atmosphere of disinterest. This may also be my question as the tenth speaker on the matter as a result of such an atmosphere created in Serbia, but it is much more dramatic than the one created in Kosovo. People are simply afraid, terrified, and most of all of the government's threats and threats to the government that drive them to these elections that they won't go to. They are driven by various blackmails and various messages that, if they do not come out, they will not receive salaries, lose jobs or various kinds of profits and receipts received from the Republic of Serbia, of course, by its laws and by its legal regulations. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you a question that will be very simple, and it's very important because you've never said a concrete thing about it, or a concrete answer. You've talked a lot about this since 19 April, when an agreement on normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina relations was signed, about many things, and we've talked about it a lot. We've had some claims about the character and nature of this agreement and it's clear to the public. What's not clear is what I'm going to ask you, so you just have a chance to answer it briefly and clearly now. The question is this. If it were to happen after these elections, whatever they were, they were to establish Serb municipalities in Kosovo and build a community of Serb municipalities, in which state would it be municipalities and community of municipalities? Please give me a more concrete answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25469	Does anyone want to give an answer? The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25470	Of course, I don't want any of our politicians banned from coming to Kosovo. But as far as I could hear, you spoke in Kosovo Mitrovica yesterday, in northern Mitrovica, calling for a boycott of the election. They didn't forbid you from leaving. Those who call for the election to be banned from going to Kosovo. Why? It is clear to all - because Thaci is responsible for the fewer Serbs coming to the local elections or for winning those who will listen more to Pristina, not to listen, but to co-operate with Pristina, but with Belgrade. That's why you're absolutely right when you say that a strange atmosphere is being created, but not fear of Serbia, but a completely wrong picture and atmosphere has been created that someone who comes out to local elections is coming out to help Thaci. I just want to remind you, this government did not put into international documents of the Serb institution in northern Kosovo, they were placed at a time when Germany first started talking about it. It is clear that Serbian institutions cannot exist in Kosovo. Are we aware of that or are we not aware of that? Now we need to tell that whole story over and over again. Serbia's institutions can't exist in Kosovo and Metohija in a peaceful way, with international recognition. We do not recognise Kosovo as an independent state, but we recognised it as a special territory by Resolution 1244. It was also done by your government by signing an agreement with the EU on readmission because it did not refer to Kosovo's territory. You are now asking me in which state this community of Serb municipalities will be. We have not recognised an independent state of Kosovo. We are interested in how the Serbs in Kosovo will build their institutions? Why have we come to this situation that Serbs today, 14 years after NATO's arrival in Kosovo, do not have their regional institutions in Kosovo? No, we had politics – even Kosovo is ours. From this policy – even Kosovo is ours – we got a policy that certainly even Kosovo is lost. There are great differences, Mr. Professor, between what is written in books and what is in real life. It's easy for us all from Belgrade to give a lecture on what needs to be done. I don't judge anyone, everyone will decide their fate. Everyone will decide whether to go to the polls or not. But is it in the interest of Serbs to have their own leadership? Is it in the interest of Serbs to have legal and legitimate bodies that recognise the international community now? Is it in the interest of Serbs to have their own office in Brussels? Or is it in the interests of Serbs to sit around and pretend like nothing's happening? And when he fires for the first time... I've heard enough of that. I've heard a lot of "heroes" in my life, under quotes and sitting on Andric's crown. Well, when it broke down in Krajina, the official explanation was -- well, we're not going to war there for those mountains, are we? It is my interest as Prime Minister and members of the government to help our people. You know, when a man is sick, sometimes he has to take his medicine. We do not apply any force, nor can we threaten anyone, but what is this way for Serbian civil servants not to implement the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They can do whatever they want in private businesses, but they can't be civil servants. Besides, if this country had been smarter, it would have had much better solutions for Kosovo and Metohija. We had politics like some during World War II – we should wait. Wait, wait and wait. And what are we waiting for? Some of the Second World War are still waiting for allies to land not in Normandy, not in Sicily, but in ours. Some of our people from 1999 are still waiting for the Russian S300, but it's been 14 years. We'll be gone. We won't have anything to fight for anymore. Today, Kosovo is not killed because only crazy can be killed. Today, Serbia's Kosovo is being voted for because you get your authority and your president's community of Serb municipalities. This is what you advocate will lead to the fact that northern Kosovo Mitrovica can be Albanian rule. The Albanian government, if the Serbs do not come out, will be Albanian and Muslim parties in power. And what are we gonna do after that? Of course, we don't admit anything. I'm sorry, but you complained not to talk about Kosovo. Now I want to talk about Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25471	Mr. Samardzic, would you like to ask a further question? Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25472	Mr. President, you can give me your word, but first you have to take away the word from the speaking speaker or draw attention to him to stop. So I want to answer now. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister, I asked you this simple question just to clear up or help clear up the language and explain all this. The whole problem with Serbs in Kosovo is that they actually feel and know what the government is doing but the government won't tell them. It is clear to them, of course, that they are not illiterate political ones and have lived for 14 years on very difficult occasions. They understand that these elections are being held under Kosovo's laws, and they understand that the solutions were supported by the Serbian government. They understand that these elections will be abolished institutions that have existed so far and have been directly linked to part of Serbia's local self-government system. They understand they're moving from one country to another. So they're not in trouble about what's going on with them and who's working on their heads, but they don't mind the government saying that. And what the government says next, what you have now repeated -- we will not recognise independent Kosovo. You know what, maybe there's your deal with these new sovereigns of Serbia starting with Germany, which is what I've heard now that Germany is the new sovereign of Serbia because she said there are legal institutions, so that's how you acted both in the first and second terms. It may happen that they and some other requests also submit to the rest of Serbia so that we act the same way. You know that problem is in a clear position, and the problem is next and they know it very well. If that's the case, then you say it, but don't rub coward's eggs on them. So, they need their votes to confirm that they are entering another country, that they are changing the institutions of the Serbian state for the institutions of the Kosovo state. So, that they vote for it and that you stay clean before history because you, my God, claim that you should not recognise Kosovo's independence. That's what this is about. So the question is brief and clear, it wasn't you that finally told me what it was about. But you're afraid that if you say so, your fig leaf will fall and the emperor will be naked. So let it be naked because we all know what you're doing. That's what this is all about, and that's why it's so simple. You can't answer a question that simple. You're telling a big story about history, about engagement, about books, about teachers, etc., and it has nothing to do with this. You know I've been personally, practically on the subject since 2001, independent of my profession. To give you the opportunity to say one more thing, I'm going to ask another question, which is important by looking at those choices. It's simple again. Do you, as the Serbian Government, have or will you have any insight into vote counting and showing the results of these elections? I'm simply interested in that because in your agreements with Pristina, which are not so transparent, it doesn't appear in the agreement and in the implementation plan. It is not clear on why the Central Election Commission will declare the results, and are they subject to control, any control from our government or any hay service?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25473	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25474	Good afternoon, Mr. President. You know what, now that I'm listening to what you're saying right now, it seems like you're innocent, like you first faced the question of Kim. Can I just ask the local MPs here? When was KIM's independence declared? What year was that? Who was in power then? Is it your party, Mr. Samardzic? What have you done, Mr. Samardzic? It is your obligation under the Constitution to take action to defend territorial integrity and sovereignty. What did you do, except break the trades and set the embassies on fire? What have you done? Why didn't you run it? Did you have an army? Why didn't you do the mobilization? I guess it's clear to you that we Kosovo can only be restored by war. Don't lie to this people and tell them anything. When they go to war, they desert. When there's a war, there's a war coming up, and there's the best for a runner. When there's peace, there's bad news for the chase. That's why ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you one thing: Angela Merkel didn't sit with me in the same parliamentary group of factions, so IPP. She sat with you ladies and gentlemen in the IPP. She wasn't sitting with me. She was sitting with you from DOS when you came to power in 2000. To whom you say now, the fig leaf will fall. And you're clean before history. Let me tell you one thing, you can talk about Milosevic whatever you want, but at least he tried to defend Kosovo. You, when Kosovo's independence was declared, you were so angry that you brought down the government, and that kept you clean before history. And not to mention other issues that are related to other parts of our country. (The People's MP Milos Aligrudic throws out of place, but it is not understood, and MP Zoran Radovanovic, from the scene, throws out: Shut up, you peasant. ) No heat and no polemics. We're polluting... (President: I pray to all colleagues that we do not have such outbursts. )......................................................................................................... Mr Aligrudic and I have been here for years, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I just want to tell you next. I don't argue with you, what might be best for Serbia, what would be the most just, what would be a divine solution, but let's argue that you can't call the people to sacrifice for something that you know in advance is not possible. We need our people to survive. Because if there are no Serbs around Gracanica anymore, we will never be able to call on such a thing again. That's why I call on the Serbs from KIM not to listen to politicians looking at this to just get political points, but to think about themselves, to think about themselves and their fate, because tomorrow, Kostunica, or Dacic, or anyone else, will have to defend you, but you will have to defend yourself down there. God forbid. Choose your power. He who does not take power when offered will pass as DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25475	Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25476	Mr. Prime Minister, you not only lost the compass in politics, but you lost your head today, because you're not answering questions, and what you're saying you've repeated here at least 30 times on different issues. You have a chorus, you have a record that you keep turning around, it's a broken record, but use it when it's necessary to distract, just like these Serbs do with your story. Re-comparate the incomparable things. We know in the history of the phenomenon of occupation and secession, and all that, and sometimes it can't be affected. Both Serbia and the Serbian government cannot influence that. What can affect is that he does not accept it voluntarily. So here we have an exorbitant act that you compare with a voluntary political act, which is the signature of an agreement on normalisation of the relationship that teaches Serbia Kosovo. That's the difference, Mr. Dacic, which I don't know if you'll understand. But that's what you do. That's the problem, and that's the main difference. So you're in power, it's an honor, but you've used all the resources to stay on it, and so on. the international community i.e. You're giving the western countries a pedestal that will help you stay in power. The Democratic Party of Serbia had such a choice but did not take over. When it comes to choice, Mr. Dacic, and when it comes to elections, there should still be some right to choose, there should be. Why do you keep talking instead of those Serbs? First of all, they are citizens of Serbia. They should enjoy all rights under the law, including the right to receive from the Republic of Serbia. So, you, for them, and in Brussels and here in the Assembly, are saying what their interest is. Well, it's not like they're underage. They lived for 14 years under the conditions under which they live, so they were defined to continue living, and Serbia is obliged to help them do so. So, from high political issues and protection of rights to funding. Now you have suddenly come to the conclusion that the Serbs in Kosovo are a burden to all of us here in Belgrade and Serbia, and that we need that burden to get rid of ourselves as roach bugs in order to go to the EU and that you will remain in power because you would become the favorites of such a single structure. Don't cover all sorts of stories that have nothing to do with the subject we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25477	MP Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25478	I thank Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that all in Serbia are clear priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One of the top priorities of the Serbian government is certainly the normalisation of relations, the continuation of dialogue, the peace process and implementation, and the implementation of what is contained in the Brussels Agreement. The second priority is economics. They cannot be realised, one goal cannot be realised by the government of the Republic of Serbia without economic recovery from the state. Mr. Dacic, my first question, I had no intention of asking him, but I'll definitely have to. You were in KIM space and when many in this hall politics when it came to the KiM issue led from Belgrade's headquarters, or from the headquarters of their parties in Belgrade, above all I think of the day when one-sided independence of KIM was declared. You, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, were in the KIM area a few days ago, and spoke to those living in KIM consider Serbia their country. Mr. Dacic, my question is simple. What do they think you're talking to? My second question. The government of the Republic of Serbia, before a certain period of time, came out with a very clear proposal for a set of economic measures, and I would like to say that we believe that this shows that in one responsible and serious way the government has seen what the current problems are today, and that it has offered responsible solutions that are in the interests of citizens, which are not the burden of those socially most vulnerable categories of the population. I would say that this proposal is part of a comprehensive and systematic response to what are the obvious problems today and this shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a concrete and clear plan and that this proposal is neither programmable nor political, nor economic declaration, you have very clearly calculated, precisely defined target results that will be realised in the next period of time. So this proposal is a reality and it is a real need that we all need to stand for together. Several features of this set of economic measures. There are, above all, rational behaviour, household spending, restrictiveness, or state-level savings should be and must be priority priority, because it cannot be saved where there is no, but where there is, therefore, savings at the level of the state. The government has gone on its own and shown us how responsible we must be in this regard for the next period of time. I want to say that this is a brave and economically but also a political move that should lead to the recovery of the economy. My second question, Mr Dacic, is also for you, who are these, we will have this set of economic measures formulated through legislative proposals, amendments and amendments to the law here in front of the republican MPs in the Republic of Parliament, but after adopting that, which are the next steps of the Government of Serbia that will lead to economic recovery and economic recovery of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25479	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25480	The shortest, of course, is that the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, or Serbs living there, above all, as here, of course, when the elections are in one of the municipalities, are currently the target of inter-party outwitting and bickering. I think the largest number of them have realized that this is not about which party is now going to win these local elections, but that it's about one thing, is there a state plan or not? What do we want and what path do we want to achieve? We made it clear what the plan was. Local elections, a community of Serb municipalities and a fight for further, for our rights and for a fair solution to the Kosovo problem. If there's any other plan, if he thinks that plan can be fought for the legality and legitimacy of the international plan, first of all, and why do I say it on the international agenda? Because I guess it's clear to all of us that we here can work out whatever we want, but from our decision to the realization of all that, it's a long way to go. I keep saying, we shouldn't underestimate our forces, but we shouldn't overestimate our forces. If someone thinks that the resolution in the National Assembly is enough to bring Kosovo and Metohija back into constitutional frameworks, I don't think it really deserves in a serious way to deal with politics, it's more of a romantic society that thinks it's true what they think it is. Repeat once again, don't mind me, when Russia entered Czechoslovakia in the 1960s, a party committee in Kolasin sat down and concluded that Russia must immediately withdraw from Czechoslovakia. Then one of them answered and said, "What if he doesn't back down?" The president says we'll schedule the session again. I'll tell you all the time, because you're constantly making appointments for this committee, and we need to realize that this committee no longer exists, and no one's asking him any more questions. Kosovo is being debated around the world today, but it seems that we cannot discuss it and give ideas on how to solve it. So, my opinion in different parts, there's different direction, or people's definition. There's a lot of pressure going on, a lot of pressure being put on to boycott the election, rather than going to the polls. Much more pressure is being put on, political pressure. You know there's an idea that your representatives of the DSS are talking about down in Kosovo and Metohija, the SRS, that everyone who goes to the election to share the aces. Why? You don't think that's a bigger threat than anything else? When it comes to economic measures, there are ministers here, this is just the first part of what we think needs to be done. There is no success if we base ourselves solely on saving, we must cultivate a growth policy, so I think now there will be measures that are just about to boost growth. There was one question today, I think Mr. Markovic asked that question, you know, we took so much credit from abroad, which were of an investment character, we talked about that they would encourage our public works, and we didn't even have 1% of social growth, we didn't have growth in industrial production. Why? Because that job wasn't done by our companies, or they were doing it at dumped prices, foreigners get jobs for half or 60% of the value of the job given to domestic companies. From that, apart from getting the very buildings that are being built, which we're going to pay off with a loan, our economy has no effect whatsoever. I agree that this must be one set of measures, but as for Kosovo. We can watch calmly as we sink into living mud, or we will do something before it is too late, and that is why we have decided that the two key policies of our government, European integration, because it is good for Serbia and another, economic stabilisation, i.e. the consolidation of public finances and the growth of employment and living standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25481	The word is Mr. Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25482	Thank you. Mr. Dacic, I completely agree with you. Saving is good in a period where we all feel the negative effects of the economic crisis and it's good to save at the state level, but saving in itself isn't enough. We need to find a way to develop, to increase revenues, to create, to improve the investment climate, to create an attractive investment environment and to continue with structural essential reforms, without which we will not be able to feel positive effects. Investments and projects are solutions, and that is how Serbia develops, you are absolutely right. During the previous period, you also had significant international visits to attract foreign investors. A few days ago, you also opened a Serbian investment day in London. My next question is very specific, is it also to what extent is improved, what is your opinion, the investment climate in Serbia today, and what is it that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do, what is it that we, as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, can do to create the most attractive investment environment in Serbia that will be far more attractive to foreign investors?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25483	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25484	Frankly, profit is the main incentive for foreign investors. None of the foreign investors come to Serbia to save Serbia, but to earn something and I guess that's normal, they're not from humanitarian organisations, but they have their own company. On the other hand, whether someone will come to work in Serbia depends primarily on political stability and depends on what kind of people associations they have when the word "Serbia" is mentioned in international relations. Therefore, for us, the key issue is the positioning of Serbia, the image of Serbia, whether Serbia represents a factor or not in international relations. If you want me to give you an honest answer, I think we're only at the beginning of a completely different positioning than what was in the last few decades. That's why both the level and the volume of foreign investment, especially these direct ones, isn't particularly large, I think, at this age, but we have to do the same to encourage domestic investment. What is a sure assessment, of which no one can escape, is that today's picture of Serbia is much better than it was. It's the only way we can... People's MPs are getting out of place. I don't know who just said it and threw it away. I doubt it, it doesn't matter who I suspect. Srdjan Milivojevic, from the scene: We are always suspected. That's justifiable doubt. I'm kidding, of course. Everyone will say about their authority that she's the best. It doesn't matter. I wish Serbia could be more important today in international relations than some small, pygmic, dwarve countries in our environment, which do not represent any strategic interest in these large countries in the region, but they have fought for it, and we have stayed away and we have lost any possible support without which we cannot solve the problem. If you want to solve a problem, the basic approach is to influence those who make decisions. We, unfortunately, were unable to have a decisive impact on those who made key political decisions on the fate of the former Yugoslavia. Without this change, we can talk about what we want, there will be no foreign investment, because Serbia was once practically a pair in Europe. We were untouchable. Time is different now, and that's why we can't miss the chance. Two chances are missed – Dayton Agreement, October 5. If we miss this, I don't know when the next one will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25485	The word is Mr. Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25486	I'll take the opportunity to thank you for your answers and I won't waste any more time to allow other colleagues and colleagues to ask a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25487	As you can see, Mr. Milicevic, your speech is welcomed with applause on both sides. That's good. Mr. Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25488	Dear Chairman, thank you very much for your insights, gentlemen, from the position that we will be able to ask one question tonight. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr Dacic, how did you say - small Pygmies countries in the environment? Do you, Prime Minister, probably not respect our opinion, think they're subjective, but I suppose you respect the World Bank's opinions? Following yesterday's World Bank report, "doing business 2014", all these small Pygmies countries are ahead of us, including Kosovo that we do not recognise together, is it, by all the measurable parameters the World Bank has. So, according to the report, Serbia has fallen seven places under business conditions, Mr Dacic, since the time you took over as prime minister and the entire coalition. In the area of tax pay, it made business difficult, as it increased the corporate tax, Mr Krstic, you probably knew that when you took over the finance minister's bat, you knew that the previous minister had raised taxes to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It increased, of course, the profit tax. Next, there's a dozen parameters. When it comes to accessing electricity, Minister Mihajlovic, that's where we fell 10 seats. How did you do that, Mrs. Mihajlović? How did you manage to keep your minister's account and account for three months from issuing and sending orderly payments? As you have succeeded, this is an official report, that the possibility of joining electricity in Serbia falls, that Serbia falls 10 places on this ranking list. It's one of the most important conditions for someone to start a business, to have electricity. I ask, of course, Minister Radulovic too – how many workers will be fired in the next period, 30, 50 or 100 thousand? You've been providing different information these days. I ask Minister Krstic – did you, Mr Krstic, pass the VAT increase, which one day said, that my grandmother would know, increase the VAT from eight to ten percent to food, to milk, to all that ordinary citizens benefit? Is there another measure, computers, say, from eight to 20, catering services from eight to 20, which would fix the next World Bank report? Do you have any plans on that plan? Mrs. Dejanovic, since you are here tonight, I highly appreciated you, you have done the job of the President of the Assembly very well, we are very dissatisfied, probably the entire opposition and citizens, as you do the work of the Minister of Health. They don't work machines, CTs, mammographs, no drugs, we import, do they, Chinese valves? I don't mind Chinese valves, but we do have serious health problems, Mrs. Dejanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25489	You've asked questions to a large number of government members. Now we'll see who gives the answer. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25490	I'll answer that part, unrelated only to the possibility of power connection. I completely agree that everyone should have the opportunity to join. Why this fell for 10 places is certainly, I would say, the reason for the functioning of the EPS itself and the attempt to make the problems that exist and which have been observed long ago, and the connection of electricity, ownership, and who is building, who is paying, who becomes the owner, etc., something that we will change by amending and supplementing the Energy Act, which will go into public debate and end by the end of this year. So you're absolutely right. That problem isn't just happening with us. It happens elsewhere. I am not happy that this is so, as I am not happy that "EPS Supply" was not formed in December 2012, but was founded in August 2013. These are the things that the EPS didn't manage, because exactly the possibility of joining electricity, let's just say that we're not talking about the company that I mentioned, is one of the basic things that is necessary when we're already opening the market and when we're talking about having a completely different situation next year. We tried, as Government, to make certain decisions, to make these decisions more quickly. They weren't implemented any faster. We still have an EPS that is not ready to go out, or open the market. As for the "Serbian Gas", which will enter into reformation, the EPS will also have to change the way it works. The government will bring additional measures very quickly. What the state does, what the ministry does, which is my obligation, is to amend the Energy Act, that in that sense we have different property when we talk about network connection and who will own it. The biggest problem, right now, is that we have with investors who need to invest and build into renewable energy sources, whether it's wind parks, etc., that's the problem with the possibility of joining. I deeply believe that changing the law will solve this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25491	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25492	I was in a dilemma whether to answer it at all. This was mostly a discussion, not a question. Once again, I would like to reiterate that the issue of the organisation of the work of the National Assembly is not the issue of the government of the Republic of Serbia. You bring the Rules of Procedure. I don't know when this current Rules of Procedure was brought in, was it at a time when Slavica was president or something was changed? You could have made a Rules of Procedure that gave the opposition more opportunities, but you didn't seem to count on you to be the opposition. Anyway, I don't mind if you extend the time, so it's more common, to be before. Don't make it look like someone's deliberately making it impossible for you to ask a question right now. I can't wait for you to ask me a question. I really don't understand. Do you think we're avoiding dialogue with you? Do you think we're afraid of controversy with you? I don't understand. But also, if we're talking about who's guilty of what right now, I'm listening, if I were going back in time... I think Zoran Zivkovic said that we would be members of the EU in 2007, I remember, about, or in 2006, something like that. We've lost a lot of time. In all, the situation is bad and I'm not surprised where we're at by different criteria. Today, the Hungarians asked me about this monument in Subotica. You saw what happened to Joanne Broz and the theft that happened. It's a picture and an opportunity of the state we're in, an unsettled state. Zoran Djindjic may have written about the current state, when he wrote a book in his day, it seems to me "Yugoslavia, an unfinished state", something like that. In any case, we are not running from criticism, nor are we saying that something is ideal, just don't make it look like all the problems are now that Lazar Krstic came or I don't know Sasa Radulovic. Nor were all the problems created at the time of DS authorities, because if we go like that now, and DS usually says – all the problems arised in Milosevic's time, then it ends up as a child's game - nobody's fault. I think we have a chance to put Serbia on sound ground and we need to consult each other in this, see if there are any good proposals, better proposals. We're really completely open to communication in that sense. Today I saw that Gilas said he had a solution for FAP. Gilas, to buy buses for Belgrade, ordered FAP buses. I'm only going to remind you now, when was the city council? How long ago? A year ago, she made a decision to buy Polish buses from a loan. We just remembered. Where have you been? What, until Slavica arrived, was there a paradise in our hospitals? While Tomica Milosavljevic was, it was so nice that they couldn't wait to go to hospitals. Please don't. These are non-serious political debates. I'll take it if someone's responsible for something specific, if someone's doing something wrong. I support all those who will do their part of the job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25493	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25494	Mr. Dacic, you've had doubts about answering your word at all. You'd better not have answered because you haven't answered any of my questions. My question concerned the fact that you said that the countries in the environment, as you said Pygmies, tiny, etc., are all currently on the World Bank's ranking list, preferably investment ahead of us. So Montenegro is 44th in place, Bulgaria at 58th, Romania at 73rd place, Kosovo will skip, Croatia is at 89th, and we are 93rd in all parameters. Mr. Dacic, why did we fall seven places in just a year? What is it that this government didn't have as conditions in its hands? Which ministers, according to President Nikolic, are distracted or something when making decisions in the government? My question is very clear – what will you do if Serbia does not touch the bottom in the next period, because we are now very close? We are, for example, among the 10 worst-placed countries in several areas, such as the process of obtaining a building permit. What have you done in the last year to simplify the process of obtaining a building permit? What did you do on that plan, Mr. Dacic? Is that how you attracted foreign investors? When it comes to buses, Mr. Dacic, we've been very well prepared for today's session. Here is a letter of 30 November 2012 from the mayor of Belgrade to the Serbian Government, in which, among other things, he says – this way I am informing you that if the state of Serbia can finance the production of the bus of domestic producers, the City of Belgrade is ready to buy 100 solo buses under the same conditions as the conditions for obtaining EBRD credit. They recommend it to be gas buses, not diesel. In this way, Mr. Vukic could sit there instead of going to Priboj. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25495	The word has Prime Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25496	From what you've read, it's clear that you can't get out of the old dress. Can the state fund and help? You now want the state to finance, and you're talking about it earlier -- subsidies, why is this, why is it, that the state finances buses. You know we were against that decision you made. You're telling me some rank lists and everything. It's all right. I also want to accept that maybe on some rank list, it's probably gonna be worse. That's where it's going to rise. Let me tell you, it's hard to talk like this. I think the rank of our citizens is far more important. You're nowhere on that ranking list at the top. As for that, you're saying that this country is getting worse than it was a year ago. You're saying this country hasn't made any progress. You're saying this country is in a catastrophic situation, and that's why it's falling more and more. Such grades don't stand, they just don't. First of all, in the international community, I've never heard a single cry, let alone a moaning after us. Secondly, how is this situation in the country bad and catastrophic, and Serbian citizens convincingly favour two parties or coalitions that are in power? According to your researchers, Tadic is still president, because they announced before the second round that he has 16% support for Tom Nikolic. (People MP Srdjan Milivojevic throws out of place. ) I voted for Tadic, that's true, but for nothing, when yours didn't go to the election. You didn't vote for Tadic, but it doesn't matter now, it doesn't matter here now. The Serbian government will respect any constructive proposal. Don't be angry when someone's having an affair with you. You can talk about it. The polemic is the mother of politics. It's better to settle in parliament than to fight in the street. That's why there's a parliament, he's the expression of the people's will. If the people thought the same, there would be no parliament, there would be one sovereign end. So if there are any suggestions for anything else, as well as for Kosovo, we have alternative solutions, please, let us talk. I've never been against conversations, dialogues, and I'm calling you and now, if you have any good solutions. I'm just not up for it because you're the opposition to say – now the Brussels Agreement is no good, if it were Tadic, he wouldn't have allowed such a bad Brussels deal, he'd have achieved something better. Each of you, ladies and gentlemen, had a time to prove yourself. It's been so many years to prove it, but it's over. No more proof. Now we're playing a game. This isn't a rehearsal anymore, it's not training. There's a game going on and this depends on the fate of our country and the future of our children. So it's important that we all get together, if we can, about that interest, and who's in power, will change in the elections, maybe not so fast, but it'll change when it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25497	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25498	When I hear you talk about how we are in a worse position today than when you were in power, I can't agree with that. The law on planning and construction has been passed by your minister, as far as I know. Is that right? The law on planning and construction was passed by Dulic. Because of this law, we have serious problems in what are called business conditions, and because of that law, we have investors who have a problem getting their licenses. That's certainly at least half of all the problems they feel right now when we're talking about investors. The EPS, which I mentioned, was working without a plan until the third quarter of last year. He didn't have a plan during your government. You haven't adopted the plan. So he worked without a plan, vision, etc. Yours was the director. So don't say the Ministry held the SPS, yours was director, Dragomir Markovic, if I recall. Yours was a Tsaran. Is that right? "Columbara"? I suppose it was appropriate that you didn't have a plan, that there was no vision, that there was nothing, because in that situation you could do whatever you wanted. Now, what you've been doing, it's been straightening out these years, or a year and a half. You should also know that when you talk about business conditions, your government was four years late with sublegal acts in the field of energy. Now these sublegal acts have been in place for a year and a half and now it can be done. The law has been amended to make everything transparent, because everything you've done in the previous period, you've done so that unfortunately it's not transparent, that it can do whatever it wants. The system is now in place. It's not easy, but it's being established. No one's happy when there's a fall on the World Bank list, but there's a fall as a consequence of what you've been doing. I'm absolutely sure the next report won't be like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25499	Thank you. The word has Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25500	In the last ten years, we've been running a completely missed economic policy, and I think that's what's come to an end. The consequences of this economic policy are major problems for enterprises in restructuring. We've been pushing their problems under the rug for years. We pushed our heads into the sand, and now this and that behavior has come to an end. The World Bank estimated that it cost us at an annual level of about $750 million. This government finally decided not to push its head into the sand, face problems and start solving them. That, of course, can't happen overnight, but we've taken this job seriously. We've accessed the list of assets, the list of obligations, so we can finally know the depth of the problem and access the solution to these problems. If we'd done it before, it'd probably have been a smaller loss of jobs. If we'd done this before, we wouldn't have gotten into this difficult situation. This government has decided that this practice is over and that we will finally put things on healthy feet. As for the issues where we rank on the ranking list, the Labour Act and the Planning and Construction Act are two key laws that push us to the bottom of the list. We noticed that. The drafts of these two laws have been drawn up and they are before the government and we expect them to enter the assembly procedure by the end of the year and be voted. I think that the laws will show you what the reform capacity of this government is and that on this basis we will be able to fix our position on the ranking list by success, i.e. in the regulatory environment and the business environment. I'm undermining, irresponsible behavior has come to an end. This government is facing problems. They're heavy. We solve them, and we solve them. We're accessing this in one responsible way. So, a system is being established that will work in the long run based on these moves that we make, we will also attract investors to help us recover Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25501	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25502	First, to ask Minister Mihajlovic a counter question he will not be able to answer, but hopefully we can find out how you have been trying to change Serbia for the last year and a half, and according to the World Bank, we are sinking deeper and deeper. So in this particular area of yours, we've fallen down ten places. I guess the fact that one housewife got an account of 23 million dinars for spent electricity didn't affect that. President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, we had a situation when Mr Milosevic was president of your party and president of the Republic of Serbia, that your party had an extraordinary rating and that Mr Milosevic won the election of phenomenal 80 or I don't know how many percent, so the citizens never lived up there. Are you looking forward to the fact that your rating, say, stagnates or grows when the standard of citizens falls from day to day. I would agree that the rating party to which I belong is lower, but that citizens live better, that we all make efforts, not to make flights above Serbia and various oceans, to various planes, which are military, which is civil, but to do something for this country and to keep ministers focused on the government on issues they discuss and to bring sublegal acts that you talk about in time so that the laws can be applied. Why didn't you change the Law on Planning and Construction for the last year and a half? You had a lot of things going on. You've been working for six months on the reconstruction of the government. What do you do now? You're in preparation for a new election. You're in charge of the hall. Your activists, right, are fighting for the money they need to get paid to go to Belgrade. Gentlemen, you're dealing with some issues that citizens expect from you, for which you've been given a term of office in the elections. Mr. Prime Minister, the City of Belgrade has asked the state, as it can appear on the capital market, if it were in charge, and the City of Belgrade would pay for those buses that would be produced in Priboj, in FAP today, workers would have no reason to strike. There is Mr. Antic, he will best confirm it to you, since you will not have the opportunity to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25503	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25504	Dear members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, will ask the question of Minister Radulovic, in light of these strikes that are current these days, which we see in the restructuring companies, such as FAP, "Zelvos" in Smederev, etc. There were not so many of them, but every single one of them is very important when we know how many of these companies are currently waiting for a solution to the situation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Before I ask the question, my introduction will start with a question that was asked today in the afternoon part of the debate, it was like this – why do all these workers call the Wolf to solve their problem? Then -- why do they call sports workers, why do they call people who have a health problem, etc., to solve their problem? It was one completely pointless question to me. I don't even know who that question will actually be passed on to through the Assembly. Are those citizens or someone else? But it's very clear to me why. Because people see who works, people see who does their best to help them. I can cite examples of the dedicated KPC industry, the large investments of Finland in Smederev, Mubadal when it comes, and I am convinced that it will come and it will be a great impasse for our economy, and Etihad is already in JAT. The government is trying to help in the IT sector, not only to say Mr. Vukic. Here, and Mr. Dacic was in San Francisco. Then, the London conference that was held yesterday, texts and a whole special number of the Financial Times about it. So, this government is trying and Mr. Wolf is doing and people are seeing it. It's not clear to me at all why we're in a situation where people ask such a question and invite him to talk to him. In addition, today when he went to FAP, he brought along one of the directors of Mercedes to find a solution immediately. My question for Mr. Radulovic is – how much do we actually have a burden as a budget by companies in restructuring and what solution will it be? What is the number and what solutions do we expect? I think it's the citizens of Serbia and how they're interested at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25505	Thank you. The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25506	We currently have 153 enterprises in restructuring, with over 50,000 employees. In addition, we have 419 companies that are the Agency's intelligence, in various stages of privatisation, from preparation, auctions, tenders, where the decision has not been made, etc., with 35,000 other employees. After all, we also have about 550 companies that are in bankruptcy. Then we still have 911 companies in which the state has some minority property. It's a huge portfolio, we completely abandoned it, and we didn't deal with it. At the annual level, I just said that, by the World Bank's estimate, it costs us, or taxpayers, $750 million. It's just that Serbia can't take it anymore. It's the price of irresponsibility in previous years, which has brought us into this state. By pushing the head into the sand and avoiding the problem, the problem just gets bigger, no smaller. We've come to this job very seriously. Since the beginning of September, we have already started making these ID cards, which essentially contain a list of the assets of these companies and their assessment, a list of obligations, to see who the buyers are, who the suppliers are, so that we can record the state of these companies, because you can only treat what you know is the problem. Without it, it just doesn't work. You can't privatize something without knowing anything about it. It's not domestic in that way that we act at all. We've had a lot of resistance in this process of gathering real information. We have been able to overcome some of the most important problems slowly and to enter a phase where we are getting data that is more or less quality, and then access to the view of the situation, i.e. the solution to the problem of these companies. The bottom line is that this irresponsible behavior has led us to a situation over the years that the state lost capital in these companies. He's become negative, which means we have more debt than he has property. That is why we have joined the parallel development of a new privatisation law, which should be transparent, which clearly determines responsibility, which determines simple procedures and which determines deadlines. The focus is on two words: transparency and accountability, and in particular the responsibility of civil servants. It is also up to the law on bankruptcy to resolve certain issues so that we can complete this process. Unfortunately, we lost our capital. However, there are huge debts that these companies have and they are mostly towards state-owned creditors, so we will have to go into the process of converting these debt into capital, to clear these companies and then offer them to investors, domestic or foreign. I underline once again – domestic or foreign, who will take over, who have a market, are engaged in this activity, who will know how to hire real management, who will know how to take these companies on the right track. Tax bonds, Serbian citizens can't wear that anymore. I think the citizens of Serbia understand this. The government is also aware of the position of workers who are very difficult, because after ten years of abandoned condition and cannot be different, but difficult. The state has also prepared social programs and programs to help these people, but we must finally face problems and solve them. This government is determined to approach it that way and we will solve these problems. I think the citizens of Serbia understand that, that we are making unpopular moves simply because it has to and because after that we will be better off, because without it there will be no economic growth, no accompanying employment growth. I am convinced that when we implement these plans that we have in a responsible way, that we will eventually succeed, that we will solve this problem and that from one losing situation, where these companies are pulling money out of our budget and costing us all, we will go to one winning situation, where it will be the engine of development and growth. I'm sure we'll make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25507	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25508	Minister, I can say that I am pleased with your answer, because in 15 years' time, I am a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I listen to the ministers what they say, and I haven't heard that anyone has told me in this exact and precise manner and I am even more concerned about this situation that they are, unfortunately. Some MPs who ask questions haven't listened to anything all the time, and then they'll ask new questions and they won't understand why the situation is the way it is and why the World Bank's table view of us is the way it is. Obviously, work was not done properly in the past, because, if I understand you correctly, nearly two thousand companies, i.e. The legal person is in this kind of problem, small or higher. I'm not going to ask you any more questions, but I'm going to say it on the basis of what you said -- if we're waiting for the next period, or here, it's said that in 20 years, we may not be able to enter the EU, no, we should finish negotiations in the next four years. That's what's waiting for us. A year and a half to two after that is the ratification of these negotiations in the 35 chapters we are working on, and everything is related to the re-industriousization of the country and what you were talking about – the solution to this problem. I know there's a lot of problems in agriculture, and there's a lot of work to do in that period. If all of this awaits us for the next few days, and that is why I want to appeal to the National Assembly, because in the interest of all citizens, in the next few days, we are waiting for meetings with MEPs, we expect in December an intergovernmental conference and, of course, the beginning of official negotiations, not just screening, for EU entry, then I am pleased that you have scanned, which you know is a problem and you have measures, but I appeal that in terms of these measures we are energetic, efficient and fast. After all, it is no wonder that citizens are asking and expecting help from the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, because he does so and shows every day. So, energy, fight, desire, day and night work, results, so that we all will end up better, but of course also Serbia in the European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-31-0.u25509	Thank you. Since we've exhausted three hours, we're finishing today's work. I thank you all for your participation. We'll continue the session Monday at 10:00 p.m.
