ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-25-0.u21905	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 138 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs Olgica Batic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Branko Ružic and Radojko Obradovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Periods and Cartaster Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision-making process. I put to the vote the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, v – 26 abstentions – there is no, no 12 vote, of a total of 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Articles 157, point 6 and 161 of Article 1(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 1, have been submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the place: I want a word. You have no right to speak. I can't give you a word during the vote. That's never happened in history. (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the place: You were wrong, I'm trying to get back to you. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Today is the last Thursday of the month. The Rules of Procedure cannot be harmed during the vote. Mr. Trnavčević, please sit down and don't cause any trouble during the vote, I'll give you a warning. Please sit down and get back to work. Don't make anything out of this house that isn't. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 142 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Zlata Djeric, Dragan Todorovic, Aleksandar Senic and Ljubica Milosevic, Slobodan Veličković and Slobodan Jeremic submitted to the amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 136 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 154 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Vojislav Vujic, Nevenka Stojanovic, Djordje Kosanic, Zoran Vasic and Radoslav Komlenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 130 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – three, abstentions – no, 150 of the 173 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 170 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: Olgica Batic and together Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanić and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 161 of the total of 176 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 162 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions – voted 157 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 162 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – voted 173, out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163, out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 164 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160, out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 9th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 154, out of the 176 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 151 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mijatovic, Vladimir Marinkovic and Branko Gogic together submitted the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 162 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163, out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 162 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170, out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 from the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 167 out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 for – 24, out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 for – 24, out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 160, of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 163 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 164 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 167 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 28, the abstentions – there is no vote, 16 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe. We move to the second item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF DEBT LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on violations to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – two abstentions – there are no, no 35 votes, of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: together with Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic in art. 9, 52 and 85; Olga Batić in art. 28, 139, 166 and 224; Ivan Karić in Article 41; together Judite Popović, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic in Art. 57. and 63; in the same text as Olgica Batić and together Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Miković and Natasa Vukkovic on Article 84; together Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Babić on Article. 84, 87, 95 and 100; in the same text together Lasla Varge, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđa Stojsic, Olene Papuge, Karol Čizika and Dragan Andric and together Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžije on Article 94; Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžije on Art. 97, 185 and 228, and heading above Article 212. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudić together and joint MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olgica Batic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 139 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 167 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 172 of the total of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 172 of the total of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 56th amendment, MP Olgica Batic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 172 of the total of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 43, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 129 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 72nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 81st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 84th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 84. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 158 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 156 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 163 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 157 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 103rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 160 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 104th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 162 of the 175 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 105th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 163 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 122. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—173 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 127. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted - 175 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 128. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—173 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 131st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 165 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 131. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted - 176 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 132. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote - 173 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the 138th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against - no one, abstentioned - one, did not vote - 163 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 138. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted - 176 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 141st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted - 159 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 158th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 170 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 166th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote - 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 169. The amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 145 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 170. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 171st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 172. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted - 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 175. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted - 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 176. The amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted - 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 178th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 180th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 of the 178 MPs present did not vote for – 160, against – none, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic, Teodora Vlahovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 178 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 167 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 150 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 200th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 174 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 209th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 174 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 214 by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 174 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 216th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 226th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 231st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, abstentioned – voted 162 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 234th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 234th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, no one, abstentioned – voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic to Article 236. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 44, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 134 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 234th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, no one, abstentioned – voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 248th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, abstentioned – voted 162 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 275th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 178 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – voted 164 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 305th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 178 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 329th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 339. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 340. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 166 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 341. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 166 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 342. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 343. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on violations, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – voted 36 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on violations. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Judges who are first elected to the Judge's office since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision and before moving to a decision, I remind you that Article 105 paragraph 2 is paragraph 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions that the National Assembly decide on the choice of judges by a majority vote of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are elected for the first time to serve as judges. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 39 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to judge office by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate the judges on their election on behalf of the MPs and wish them success in their work. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Public Prosecutor As the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly elects deputy public prosecutors to vote mostly on all MPs. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted 37 of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a MEMBER OF THE COrupTION AGENCY After the National Assembly has carried out a search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I would like to vote on the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect Professor Dragan Z. Kolaric as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, 27 of the total of 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly chose Professor Dragan Z. Kolaric as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee for Most Votes. Let me congratulate Professor Dragani Z. Kolarić on your choice and wish her success in her work. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Markicevic, at a session on July 17th 2013, at 11.05 p.m., pointed to injuries from members 103 to 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 17 July 2013, at 17:30 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radmila Gerov, at a session on 17 July 2013, at 17.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 109 with a call for article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 24 July 2013, at 17.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
