ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23826	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next Members of the People: MP Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of promoters Lazar Krstic, Finance Minister and Igor Mirovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, I have also called for the session to be attended by Ljubisa Milosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Radmila Jagodic, Assistant Minister of Finance. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON PUBLIC AUTHORITY. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Srdjan Milivojevic and Srdjan Mikovic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, very Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23827	We are pleased that Mr Krstic is here. He wasn't here on Friday. Perhaps, Mr. Krstic, you've been preparing accusations for the citizens of Serbia. He'll probably be playing either Argentine Tango, Greek Syrtaki, or forest rock 'n' roll from Monday. Anyway, after all these games, usually players lose their clothes. But we're glad you're here today. You'll be able to answer some questions. I hope you're in the carpool and nostrification of your diploma, but if you'd accepted our bill on amendments to the Higher Education Act, you wouldn't have that problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23828	It's all wonderful, Mr. Veselinovic, but I'm asking you to go back to the amendment, since it's the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23829	That's right. You wouldn't have that problem, but you're right to chair. Why are we even here today? It's Sunday. Since this transmission probably won't go directly, that's why I'm saying maybe we'll go in some midnight classes, if I'm wrong, correct me. We are here, first of all, because of the incompetence of this republican government. This government has had a full mandate, almost a year and a half to implement the Public Property Act. She didn't do anything about it, Mr. Cross. The laws do not serve, Mr. Krstic, that when ministers return from party activities, there were dozens of cars in Vrbas yesterday, Mr. Krstic, who spent state money, they do not serve the law to observe the windows, when they come from those trips to search their offices, or after five, six months when ministers do not enter the government during reconstruction, so new ministers enter to pass those windows. They don't serve laws to keep windows. They, Mr. Baptizer, serve to be applied. This government that you've entered, probably confused yourself, has not applied one very important law. The government did not ensure that the property of public enterprises was listed. So, a year and a half, as much as you're in power, you haven't been able to write down the property of public enterprises. Mr. Krstic, in those years and a half most of these objects could be built. Your directors of Railway, PTT, NIS, were unable to write that property. How are you gentlemen going to do something else when in a year and a half you couldn't do a job that took a real few months? Today we met here, on Sunday, to extend the validity of this law for another year. Three to four days ago, you sent us a proposal to make it a six-month extension. What happened, Mr. Cross, in three days and you suggested an extension for a year? Is that going through your system? Give it six months, I guess we'll be done. No, give me a year, there may be elections in the meantime, so we won't be able to list property in that period, where we can deal with more property. What happened in these three days, you'll probably explain to us why you asked for an extension instead of six for 12 months? So, in a year's time, you haven't been able to write down buildings, garages, some cars that grow weeds on the way, how are you going to activate that property? How are you going to activate an asset you don't even know you have? Unfortunately, and that's why I'm against the delay of this deadline, many of these buildings, the buildings, the noises are empty. Maybe they could be activated if you knew you owned them at all. So dear MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, today we are here to discuss the extension of the law by which public enterprises were obliged to write down their property and to apply for its registration of public enterprises and capital companies. They didn't do it because the directors of these public enterprises, Mr. Krstic, have small salaries so they weren't interested. The director of Railways is probably not interested in the job because he has a small salary. Mr. Bajatovic is uninterested, he probably has a small salary so he didn't even remember to do it, but there were you, or your predecessors, Mr. Krstic, to remind them of that, it's your legal obligation to enforce the laws. Mr. Stefanovic, it is your duty to take care of law enforcement. This congregation home, among other things, has a supervisory function. Is it possible that no one in your cabinet is in charge of telling you – Mr. President of the Assembly, these laws are not applicable. This government doesn't do anything about it, let's set up committees to discuss it. Let us call the Minister to the Assembly and see what happens to the application of these laws, but they deliver you on Wednesday or Thursday a bill to amend the law in which, instead of two years, he writes – two years and six months, and then in two days after the delivery of a new proposal, in which he writes for three years. Mr. Chairman, both you and the majority of the assembly and vice president who will now continue to lead this session, or vice president, may be going to watch tennis because he has done things in Vrbas, but in any case the ruling majority has responsibility for what we are doing here today, not because we are working today, but because we are here to discuss the non-application of a law without any single sanction for those who did not comply with this law, whether it is about the director of the Railways, the PTT, director of NIS gas, whether it is about the director of public enterprises that you or our colleagues in power, however, you were obliged, gentlemen of the Government, from the ruling coalition, to make sure that this law applies. Today's deadline expires, and where is it now? It is likely that in the coming days it will arrive at this assembly hall with only one member - instead of the word "12 months" is replaced by "18 months", "24 months", as we almost had with the Law on Public Records. All these laws keep some windows from opening up more than they need to be or the wind doesn't hit them. So you don't apply the laws, gentlemen. Why are you passing laws you don't apply? Why don't you apply the laws passed by the previous government? Why am I against extensions to apply this law? First, there can be no extension of the deadline without clear criteria that in the next 12 months, as you have proposed, this law will be applied. So, it's going to happen like in the last 24 months, the law won't be applied. No sanctions, no parameters, no reports. Well, it must be known how many civil servants are required to write down property. It must be known when they deliver reports, Mr. Baptizer. It is important to know what if they do not write that property, or do not apply for registration, what punishment a responsible person carries in that legal person, what punishment, if the law is not implemented, is borne by the president of the municipality, the mayor, you and everyone else in that chain. Well, this isn't the solution. Mr. Krstic, they came from an orderly country to an unsettled one. Here, unfortunately, that diploma doesn't apply to you either because there's no system. Mr. Krstic, will you manage to deal with these angels who, apart from a political roar, know nothing else, who have entered politics to win the next 40% election? The fact that the citizens are going to stay naked, they don't care, Mr. Baptizer. It's nice of you to remember taking four salaries for one. It's commendable, but your colleagues are also receiving these salaries, so they don't think to say it. They said there wouldn't be any more official cars, it's true, mobile property, with rotational lights. Well, there's never been any more. Never in such a small municipality, like yesterday, came up with that bolument from the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister. Aren't you supposed to be talking about these measures you're taking for us on Monday? No, they were in Vorbas. We are against this extension of the deadline and because we believe that amendments and additions to the laws that would be more comprehensive would provide for clear parameters that I have already spoken of. What are the damages to the non-application of this law? Large, huge material damage. They will be felt in their pocket by all Serbian citizens. So there's no list of assets, there's no record of it, there's no possibility that these public enterprises are taking a commitment based on a loan to themselves instead of going to the state right now. Why? Well, they don't have listed assets, and they can't write a mortgage then, and then the debt of public enterprises is shown to be a debt of a country in general, and that's why you're getting this money from the Emirates, which you might have to pump up into deleveraging big losers. Maybe they'd think differently if they matched their assets. It's always someone else's fault. I don't think of you, Mr. Cross, since we haven't heard a word from you by now. You've been busy with some other business, but this government is running an alibi policy -- they're all guilty, except themselves. First they've built up, so they've reconstructed themselves, and now they're building up to go to the election. What's in it for citizens? Lower wages, pensions whether they'll be, higher prices, lower standards. You take your picture and welcome your president to Vršac with a greeting: "Welcome, Mr. President! Well, that billboard had to be paid, too. Mr. Cross, do you know about that billboard? So at the entrance to a city in Serbia, a billboard reads: “Welcome, Mr. President! “ It’s about Mr. Wolf's arrival in Vršac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23830	Mr. Veselinović, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23831	It has nothing to do with this subject, but in some ways it does, because it's also an immovable property that may be owned by a public enterprise. You were elected by the citizens to enforce the laws. You were elected by the citizens, although we might be able to talk about the fact that you are now forming a majority, but they didn't choose you to delay the application of the law. If you continue at this rate and with all these consequences you have had, you, Mr. Krstic, will end up with 40 billion public debt, because in a year's time, the effective government will be in charge of five billion. Are you aware, Mr. Cross, of that and are you aware of what this...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23832	Mr. Veselinović, once again I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23833	This is the topic of the agenda. Did you listen to me carefully a moment ago? So now the public debt becomes and what could be the debt of public enterprises, the chairman, because public enterprises do not have the opportunity to mortgage their assets. Why? Because it's not listed. Why? Because this government was incompetent. Gentlemen, politics is a very serious matter. Making politics is a very serious matter. Mr. Krstic, put your finger on the head before you propose measures to the citizens of Serbia tomorrow, see if there are any reserves in the public sector, whether there are reserves in the property of public enterprises, but in order to take that into account, you have to write down that property first. What are the debts, Mr. Krstic, according to this public sector? Well, you yourself, or yours, may I say, have given your superiors the opportunity not to pay their obligations under the law, and now you will transfer to those citizens who securely settle their obligations. That's not right, Mr. Cross. I hope that you will rebel against this policy and point out in time the shortcomings as you pointed out the shortcomings associated with the nostrification of the diploma. We pointed that out many months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23834	Thank you. The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23835	Good afternoon. I'm glad I'm here for the first time. The theme, of course, I was hoping that it would be reform and the budget initially in the Assembly, but we must address this law and prevent this translation of public enterprises' property into state property. I would just like to answer briefly, I know Minister Mirovic has long talked about it on Friday. First of all, I'm sorry I couldn't be here on Friday. Also, we've worked a lot on measures, but what's mostly, I just looked at, last Friday, were meetings with investors, those who hold our bonds and those who might come to us to invest in the next period and help restore the economy. As far as the law itself is concerned, you said it wasn't implemented and that here we're actually just extending, and that this government isn't law enforcement. I just want to point out that this law was passed on 26 September 2011 and that not implementing that law is unfortunately something that should not be justified in any way, but is something that is one systemic problem that exists in the state and we want to solve now. It was supposed to be solved earlier, it's not just this government, it's also the problem and the previous government, but I don't want to do it. I want to do what we're gonna do. We already do it on the side of the employee register, for example, we will, for the first time, hopefully by the end of this month, have a list of public sector employees and salaries. We'll do the same with property, both in public enterprises and in local self-government. The third thing, related to whether six months or 12 months is a real deadline and why it was set two years ago when this law was actually passed, is that we didn't have a serious assessment at that point. I believe it's because of how long it takes for all these assets to be listed. What is now done, and what everyone knows from the media is that the Ministry of Economy together with the Ministry of Finance is conducting a policy where it wants to actually determine the state and status quo both in public enterprises and in all other economic entities to which the state has any relationship in one way or another. It's something we want to do as soon as possible, but we also want to do it the way we do it and give ourselves some deadlines that are realistic so that we don't come back in another week in six months from now to the Assembly to extend the laws because it's a bad message. As to why the law at the last minute and by emergency procedure is called upon, it is that there is, of course, a threat mechanism in this law. This member we're talking about right now is saying that if public enterprises don't report their property, they're losing that property, or that property is being translated into state property. The threat mechanism is unfortunately not working, partly because there is not enough responsibility for those who run public enterprises during the government's mandate, or during the term of office of the previous government or back 20 years, irrelevant. If you have such a mechanism, you of course want to hold this mechanism until the last moment so that as much property as possible of these public enterprises is actually entered into, or entered under this law. And finally, for 12 months, we have been consulting with the directors of these large systems, as well as with other ministries, assessing that this is one period that is real, and in which we will actually be able to implement the list of these assets. And a deadline that fits the deadline that we have for local self-government under the law that already stands. And finally, you said in your statement that you support, you used -- we support the abolition of this member. I'm not sure who you mean because as far as I understand there were three amendments, all three are different from the same parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23836	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23837	The Chair, Article 116 concerning Article 107. I have a lot of understanding that this is Minister Krstitch's practical first address in this assembly. I think that's why it's important for you to warn him at first and tell him that he has to take care of the Parliament's dignity and that it's absolutely unacceptable to say that he couldn't come Friday because he had a meeting with foreign investors. So the finance minister, Mr Krstic, unlike the American system in our parliamentary system, the finance minister first corresponds to the National Assembly and through it to the citizens. I understand the importance of talking to foreign investors, but your government has been planning on working dynamics, sending a call for Friday. That's what we talked about here, and you had to be here. That's why I think it's important, Vice President. It's a strange day. It's not the usual for the Assembly to work on Sundays. We make huge expenses to the citizens, but at least we're more efficient, not to cause it, and above all, not by a member of the government, by advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, by violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, and that we can talk normally. Now that I've heard from Mr. Krstic, maybe this is an opportunity to say right away, we've been looking for, we're looking for, and now, which directors the public enterprises have not submitted to, so let's discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23838	Mr. Djuric, you'll have a chance to say that later. I don't think he's a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. The government authorised the minister attending the session, so Mr Krstic with his statement that he was with foreign investors certainly did not compromise the dignity of the National Assembly. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23839	To tell a respected colleague not to worry. Here are all SNS MPs, unlike the MPs of your parliamentary group, and your amendments are being discussed. It would be better if they were in the Assembly today to hear a debate about the three amendments you have proposed or perhaps had more important things to do, but our MPs are here. We've come to discuss seriously the three amendments you've proposed. However, when we read the text of the amendment, it is very unusual for us that three amendments came from one parliamentary group, in which one says - Article 1 is deleted, in the second - three years are changed in words for two years and three months, and in the third, they change for two years and six months. We're just not sure if you asked this session to work for just one more day and have a few hours of media promotion, or did you really want to change something? If we adopted all three amendments, I don't know which ones we'd apply to. It kind of seems like a joke to me with the citizens of Serbia. When you talk about Vrbas, I don't know if you meant Bojan Pajtic and the officials of the Vojvodina government or when you meant when Dragan Djilas and Pajtic held a press conference in front of the government the other day. I don't know when you saw more rotations, in one case or another. However, I also see one fascination with the character and part of Alexander Vukic at your place, which simply doesn't break. Even though there is no one here, even though the man is not mentioned, even though he is not in charge as a member of the government for this, there is no chance of anyone not to mention him from your parliamentary group. Anyway, I'm sure this job will be done properly. I'm sorry we couldn't analyze how successful the previous government that killed itself was from efficiency, so in 10 years, it couldn't write anything down or for how many years it's been in power. It seems to me that very successfully some people have begun to list their assets on various islands, various foreign banks and of short companies. I think it's a fundamental problem why this job hasn't been done before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23840	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23841	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, I believe that the 27th member has been injured in connection with Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After a claim and a practical statement here by the President of the National Assembly who addressed himself as a National MP and asked the question of the rights of Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you did not respond, you did not interrupt it and draw attention to the President of the National Assembly, who now spoke as a MP that it was the right of every MP to submit an amendment. Whether we are from the same or different parliamentary groups, every MP has the right to submit an amendment. Please enable silence. If something is defined by the Constitution, if something is defined by the Rules of Procedure, no MP can say it without interrupting it, so as not to reprove it and draw attention to it that it is the right of every MP to propose an amendment that he wills. We have the fact that one institution, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has made practically two diametrically opposed proposals within three days, whether it is six months or a year. (President: Mr. Mikovic has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If we had voted three days ago, it would have been one thing. There's another vote now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23842	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. I do not believe that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, since Mr Stefanovic expressed his opinion. He did not challenge the right of MPs to submit amendments at all. That's my opinion. If you want, you can go to Voting Day and ask to make a statement to the Assembly. Mr. Zoran Babic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23843	Madam Chairman, they've been injured. 106th and 107th. – The speaker must speak of the agenda point and the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. First, the Government of the Republic of Serbia was elected in democratic elections even though the conditions of these elections were... (President: Mr. Granny, stick to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... The injury is the Rules of Procedure, because the government of the Republic of Serbia, which certain MPs can think of whatever they want, cannot be called a bullulment. It's a basic education from home. If we want to build a state of strong institutions, the government of the Republic of Serbia is an institution that can be liked or not liked, it must be respected. On the other hand, when I said Article 106, it is well respected here that the directors of public enterprises have a great pay. They've got big wages. Mr. Babie, I'm only going to ask you one more time. I'll just remind you of one thing. This government of the Republic of Serbia passed a Law on restricting wages in the public sector unlike the previous government when it was unlimited and impertinently high without any restrictions and without any goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23844	Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23845	The Honorable Chairman, according to the system, is not doing very well. First, you showed that you were leading, as I said, an alibi policy. It's all someone else's fault. Mr. Stefanovic, I find it very interesting to discuss this with you. But I'm never sure where you are, are you there, are you there, are you on the steps of the figure Tom Rosandic or others. I can't find your position quite accurate. It is not, Mr. Stefanovic, that no one blames this government for being incompetent and being the most incompetent government, as some say many years ago. This government is basically not working. She's playing like a horse crow in front of the Assembly. I didn't call the government a bulument, but the team that was yesterday with the official vehicles with the rotational lights, everything with maybe Emirat cars, gathered in poor Verbas, like before that in a poor Serb that doesn't do anything, but you showed your strength there. (President: Mr. Veselinovic, we're going a little too far. Please, let's get back to the subject a little bit. ) This was a replica of the very clear views we heard from the order of the Members of the SNS. Mr. Krstic, you just answered, you said that we have three amendments that are not quite consistent. They did. I asked to delete this member. A colleague, Srdjan Milivojevic, gave you three months and a colleague, Srdjan Mikovic, six months to do so. We don't agree it'll be 12 months. We think it's too long. It's unlikely this government will last that long. On the other hand, it's not important, but it's important that we activate that property.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23846	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23847	I see that a respected colleague has a problem not only locating me but also some municipalities in Serbia. Not only are we not in Serbian power. The Serbian Progressive Party, with local Serbian authority, unfortunately has nothing. We'll have after the next local election. So don't do anything in Srbobran, Mr. Veselinovic. Nothing works in the Srbobran because you ruined the Srbobran. We won there in the election for the Assembly of Vojvodina and that seemed to you. However, those bouluments... I was once in Srbobran, and I saw the bulument of the U.S. government's vehicle. These were columns of 50 cars with rotations and escorts. You can check it out. Look who was everything from both the officials and the MPs. But not only were they, when I remember the Vojvodina Development Bank, Agrobank, what was done and with that unfortunate Vojvodina and with those citizens there, save us from God and the previous government, and just don't God ever let that government go back to power again, because even the stone on the rock would not remain for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23848	Thank you. People's MP Srdjan Shain, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23849	I reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after the first debate because a member of 107 was injured by sending a clear message that all our students who have graduated from the prestigious colleges do not come here to Serbia because they have to nostrify their diplomas, and for nostrification they are certainly not obliged and are not really guilty of those colleges. Let me explain why it's an injury. These colleges are not guilty of being better than some other colleges that may have been protected in Serbia and so I would ask you in a clear way to explain to all MPs not to mention the issue of nostrification of people such as ministers who have completed prestigious colleges and that it is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure and that it is an insult not only to the Serbian public, not only to Serbian intelligence, but to insult complete intelligence in the world. That's one thing. Another thing that's also hurt. If you're talking about the poor people in Vrbas, then you can't talk about the poor people in Vrbas, because the poor people in Vrbas mean they're the people you're sharing two liters of rabbit with to give you a voice, and that's really not correct, and that seemed correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23850	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23851	Madam Vice President, Article 27. You've entered this session in the wrong way as someone who's responsible for everything that's going on here in the O.R. We have an understanding for today's work because of the circumstances we've found ourselves in. It doesn't matter why anymore. But, in order not to repeat it, I think it's important, Madam Vice President, that this Assembly be a Assembly not because we're MPs but because we're working here in a normal atmosphere. If you're not able to provide it then allow the people who come in here and bring you coffee to take that part of the job on their own. If you don't understand me, we have no idea that we are attending this pointless waste of time. Organize a meeting of the heads of Parliament's clubs. Let people agree on how to work today or let someone else do the job. It's very embarrassing to sit here and observe in this atmosphere everything that we've been condemned to do and that we can't influence it in any way. We're becoming a part of it. Who has more cars, who has more security, who has more rotations. We have come solely because we believe that this is our political obligation to the people who voted for us and out of this obligation we do not agree to the atmosphere you condemn us to this kind of behavior. We are not, although Sunday is in the garden of a Belgrade cafe, but in the Assembly we are discussing serious laws. If you are unable to secure an atmosphere that is adequate, someone else should do it. If there's no one else, let's go to the election and pick out those who are capable and capable of such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23852	Just to thank you for your compliment, Mr. Jovanovic. You really have a really bad opinion of me. If you want, I'll back off. I think this is a parliamentary life and that everyone has the right to say what they think and state their political position. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23853	Article 27 so this doesn't turn into a personal debate. No one thought of you, Vice President. At this point, there are conditions in this room for the session to run normally. I understand the need for Parliament's president to respond with a replica at some point, but my request is, Mr Stefanovic, to return to the post of chairman, to continue to lead the session in a normal manner. The parliamentary groups have enough time, when we have met today, there is a time by amendment and the time that MPs have and everything that can be a political debate in this law we can conduct. So, you went into a debate about the stairs, someone told you about Vrbas, and it turned into what you couldn't discuss in Vrbas yesterday with cars or without a debate in the National Assembly in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You're putting everyone else in an impossible or awkward situation with this. You are a representative of the biggest party, elected speaker of parliament, take responsibility, hold a session. You have enough MPs to replicate and try to bring this debate into normal, decent and peaceful flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23854	The word has a National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23855	First, I want to say that I have complete confidence in Mrs. Kovac, who for all year has been the president of the National Assembly, professionally and seriously chaired the sessions of the National Assembly. All that she did and all the other colleagues, all the other vice presidents of the National Assembly, made it an honor to be able to do this job. I would ask everyone else not to deny me, as a People's MP, that I may say so, because I cannot do so from the seat of the chairman. I want to participate in the debate, the citizens have chosen me, I am the elected president of the National Assembly, but at the same time also the MP who has the right to discuss and express his opinion and say something if he disagrees or agrees. I will actively use that right as long as I am a member of the People's Parliament. I say once again, I trust all my colleagues, I think they're having a very good session. It's totally for the session, at that point, irrelevant whether I'm taking her or one of the vice presidents as long as she goes and lasts. I support Vice President Vesna Kovac's view that every MP, I think we did it professionally, has the right to speak, and it will depend on what he says, whether he gets an answer or not. I didn't go out first to talk about something, I answered. Every time someone mentions my name, and I don't agree with it, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23856	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23857	Injury of Article 27. This is why I intervened. If Mr. Stefanovic were in charge of the session, he could respond to my advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Since he's an MP and now speaking from the bench, he had no right to this replica. I appreciate the ambition to allow every MP to speak when he wants to, but the Rules of Procedure don't exactly allow it. After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, no replica is allowed in this Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stefanovic could answer as Parliament's president, but that implies a previous condition, which is sitting in the seat where you are sitting now, holding a session and then defining the rules he was trying to put out of the bench now. Once again, I ask that Mr. Stefanovic, this does not speak at all about trust in you, take the seat of the chairman and that this session continue in a normal manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23858	Mr. Djuric, I'll remind you of the provisions of Article 103. When you talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you can only talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure you've done teaching. Since you mentioned Mr. Stefanovic as you spoke about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you certainly caused Mr. Stefanovic's replica. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23859	Article 107, Madam Chairman. A few days ago, two days ago, I imagined the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was advertised by Mr. Djuric at my presentation, when I said that some MPs needed to qualify to talk about certain things. I've been thinking about that sentence, and I think it's a formula... (Chairman: Mr. Granny, please... ) Let me explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the same conditions must apply to all. I think that sentence was misspelled at the time, and I accept. Let the same conditions apply to everyone. It cannot at some point, that for some MPs, that everything is valid and that they can do whatever they want, and that the MP, the Parliament Speaker, first among the equal, must just sit and be a target for darts and not be able to respond. I think that's where the rules of the MP come in. Just that the same conditions apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23860	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23861	I report that I am using the time of the DS parliamentary group, and on the amendment submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic, which reads that Article 1 in the draft amending the law is deleted. Why do I think you should stay on the two-year deadline so far? It's time to face reality. This law, these amendments to the law are currently under discussion by the first version of the bill being, one day in the Assembly, two days, withdrawn. The version said that the deadline was six months long, so the version arrived to extend for a year. Please consider accepting this amendment, for your sake, for the sake of society, the introduction of order. For two years, a deadline was given after an analysis with the idea that all those who are legal entities, public enterprises, capital companies would do a job for which they are required under the law, i.e. to submit applications to the national, province and local authorities. They didn't do it. There's no reason to believe he'll do it in a year, in six months or ever. I know all the risks when I suggest he move on to state property. I'll see you here in a year and then we'll remember my discussion of why I feel it should be done once according to the law that's in force. As long as we don't do that, you'll have all sorts of different kinds of excuses, not excuses, but explanations, infinite, why not follow the law. If we can think of an answer why someone is not interested, two years, to report their property, then we can begin to face a reality that is very unpleasant, not for a government that is currently in Serbia, not for the opposition or the ruling majority that are currently in Serbia, but for us as a society and a state, for a surface that we are so incredibly prone to. The surface and schlamperaj is the reason why there was no public business application to comply with the provisions of the law. I know exactly what it means to go into state property. Until such a thing happens, with the refusal to apply the law she voted for and for which any government has jurisdiction to enforce it, we will not have the seriousness of all of us who need to be in charge of law enforcement. It's just a brief history to paint evidence of the surface, when it comes to property. In 1995, Serbia passed the Law on Assets of Property of the Republic of Serbia, with two objectives. One goal was to change ownership in the territory of autonomous provinces in line with the 1990 Constitution. In the case of one province, nothing worked at all, and in the case of another province, greater damage was done than benefits. We've been waiting for an amendment to that law, to remove it from the legal system until 2011. The intention of the previous government in the 10 months she was in charge is to ask legal entities, which she did not use, and neither did she, as did this government. I don't understand that anyone can show pride in repeating other people's mistakes, because that's what we're hearing here. You didn't do it, we didn't do it. How does your own mistake justify someone else making mistakes? So, you have a situation that part of the jurisdiction, part of the jobs that should have been done on the register, about the directorship, that it's not over, that public enterprises neither want, nor know how to report their assets, and then you just have a problem with who in local self-governments, who, how many of them, are going to process all of this to make this work happen within a year, which you're proposing to us, and I'm saying, delete. One thing must be to deal with the real problems we have in society, which we don't want to deal with, but we just want to sort it out with words. Another little proof of how many surfaces there are among all of us. The amendments to the Ministry Act, adopted in this Assembly before the government's reconstruction, jurisdiction of law and property in the Ministry of Justice, are not in the Ministry of Finance. I don't mind the law being prepared by the Ministry of Finance, but it was done in the previous Ministry Act. That's what my colleagues and I discussed at the club. I completely understand and don't comment on what the Ministry of Finance has done, whatever the Ministry has done, I'm just trying to give you a picture of what a tendency to surface is, to deny the will to really face all the unpleasant reasons why our system has such mistakes so that we can just add up the consequences much more than we really deal with the causes. When we are told that a serious assessment has been made so that on September 30, it is given to be two years and six months, and on October 3rd to be a whole year, it means that either there has been no serious assessment, or that it is thought that MPs can at least be told what, because none of the integrity and knowledge sits there anyway, so they won't even notice. This isn't about the petty, matchmaking victories that will be or won't be in verbal duels, this is about the property of a society, not even the state, the property we don't know about, whose is, where it is and what can be done with it at all. For two years, we've left a deadline to do this, 10 months has been missed by one government, 14 months by another government. Now this government is going to say -- here's another 12 months, let's forget that we just removed the danger of all of this becoming state property. I am not sure that we all understand the importance of this law, as much as it is of the Law on Restitution, nor are we sure that we understand how much more thoroughly we have to deal with law enforcement when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whoever did, and the supervision and control of the work of the Government, when it comes to the Assembly, whoever did the majority, and who the opposition. Why do I support this amendment, not the other two who have submitted to my colleagues? I hope I've explained. I defend the right to learn once that parliamentary groups cannot submit amendments, that political parties cannot submit amendments, that it prohibits the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that our collectiveism about the whole parliamentary group will vote and that the entire parliamentary group will submit an amendment shows a deep surface, our common, when it comes to this institution and shows how much joint work we still need to get to the bottom of the integrity of the individual MP, because the MP has constitutional rights, the MP has rights under the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have little hope that the government will accept the amendment of counterpart Janko Veselinovic, but I have hope that at least I have raised some questions and that I have managed to prove at least some of the huge problems that lie in the property sector, legal relations, property relations, when it comes to our society. For everything this government has as an obstacle on that path, and to really edit the system, be sure that the National Assembly will be a partner, not an opponent, and that it is time for us to be partners in dialogue on important matters rather than enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23862	The next reported word is Mr. Djuric, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23863	Mr. President, thank you for taking over the presidency again. You made it easier for me, because I have some questions for you about this law, or the amendment, but in the end. It seemed to me, Mr. Krstic, that at the very beginning of today's debate you have some sort of guard towards this House, expecting someone sitting here by the nature of things to be the enemy of what you are doing or what you are trying to do, I assure you, Mr. Krstic, that it is not so among MPs, especially in the LDP parliamentary group. That's why I talked to you about where you were Friday. I think it would be very helpful, before your conversation with the investors, to hear what we've been saying here. That's what you started talking about a few months ago, when you came back to the country. We have been talking about this for eight years, about the needs of reform, about the needs of law enforcement, about the orientation towards market economy, about the different functioning of the state. Because of that, it may be politically honorable, but I don't think there's any need for you to talk about how something here lasts 20 years or longer than that. Why are you riding that boat? Why are you taking responsibility for this? It would be much better if you told us today who the directors who didn't report the property, but to put everything in this joint, there I agree with Mrs. Comic, the collective spirit that destroys us – we are all a little guilty, never mind, we will extend the deadline for application in a year. It's an absolutely unacceptable approach. He was your colleague, Mirovic, on Friday, as a partially incompetent minister, may not have been able to answer the questions, but I expect he has given you the questions, that you have used these days and a half, from Friday afternoon to Sunday morning, and that you have prepared answers to our questions for parliament today. Our key issue in this debate, and also important for the view of this amendment, is – what exactly public enterprises and state-owned enterprises, whose founder of the Republic of Serbia, did not fulfil the obligation of this member, or the Law on Public Property, or did not report the property they are now using to book on themselves as owners? There's not much, as you know, Mr. Krstic, public enterprises at the republican level, only 35, and I believe it's not hard for you to tell us which companies have not fulfilled that obligation. According to the information I have, some of the key major companies didn't do it. Did she, Mr. Baptizer, make her commitment to the EPS? Did "Srbigas" do it? Mr. Bajatovic can answer that. (Dusan Bajatovic: Yes. It is. We've solved that question. Did the railroad carry out its obligation? Have other public and state-owned enterprises in the energy sector, for example, fulfilled their obligation? [[No votes from the bench: No.]] I suppose one of the topics of your talks with potential investors is investment or fighting for investment in that public sector. What exactly are they going to invest in if they don't know what their property is? You haven't been here in a long time, but I think you know some of the weaknesses of this society and that when you propose this law, the story begins immediately by the cults – what's the real point? Is it the real purpose of manipulating itself in the next year with the property of public enterprises and in a direct way affecting the price? You know what he says, Mr. Cross, usually our public who's used to scandals? To sell something above real value, then. This country is not used to being sold by taking it to the market, so someone offers the price for it, so when both sides agree, that's the real value, that's the only value that's relevant. Everyone's still dreaming here, and I have to tell you, the party that proposed you to the minister of finance has come to power, that the land is ruled by thieves, that everyone is trying to steal something. For a long time, it's still been that way, and your government is doing a good job of campaigning against capitalism, against private property, against private investment. Just because you, Mr. Cross, that's weird doesn't mean you're right. That's why I suggest you don't act like a civil servant, because I see both in this room and in public many who at first look support you, and can't wait to introduce you naively, to have this episode pass and return to their classical methods of action. What measures have you, the Government, those ministries that are in charge of other businesses, for those enterprises that have failed to comply with this law? You said at one point - I can't go back in time. All you've been doing for the past 14 months, when I say "you," I mean this government, is just digging up that past. Believe me, these days we're thinking about passing a bill on the abolition of the Law on Public Enterprises. I have an idea, I have to tell you, that member of the law that talks about the competition commission is being replaced by a formula: "The executive bodies of the parties in power are being decided". The party that brought you in as finance minister, Mr Krstic, made a decision yesterday on how the directors of public enterprises will be replaced. If you as finance minister have no information about which of the directors and members of the management in public enterprises in Serbia does not meet its obligations, then ask them, they obviously know. I guess they know the criteria on which they've established something like that. So there is still time and I hope that we will finally have a normal and serious conversation in this House. Give me a list of 35 republican public enterprises and several other companies that are not formally public enterprises, but are mostly state-owned. Who, Mr. Krstic, in two years' time failed to fulfill his minimum obligation to try to enroll the property he was using? Don't tell me, as Mr. Mirovic, that you don't have in the Ministry of Finance and in the Government a mechanism to determine that. Article 82, which we are talking about here today, in paragraph 5, says that the application for the registration of property rights cannot be realised before the competent state authorities if, before that, public enterprises, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do not have the consent of the Serbian government. For which public enterprises of the republican level is such agreement sought, and for which is it issued? If you give us that information here, we will know clearly who has fulfilled it and who has not fulfilled his obligation. At the very end, I ask you, Mr Stefanovic, how much it cost the meeting on Friday and how much today's session, given that I agree with the initiative it has put forward, it seems to me, "Transparency of Serbia", to calculate the costs of the unnecessary session of the National Assembly on this basis and to respond, here, I propose solidarity, directors of those enterprises that have failed to meet the obligation and bring the entire parliament into a position to work this way. It's the same public property.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23864	I'm instructing you to contact the Secretary General's office and you will, of course, receive all the information. I'm just saying that we're all taking care of each other, because it's very serious and dangerous when we enter the field how much something costs in democracy. Then we can ask the question of how much someone spent in the Assembly and how much they paid, so we can appreciate how many seconds and minutes he spent here, so if he really needs to get that kind of pay or if we're counting on him for how many minutes he spent here. I mean, I never wanted to draw up an argument of costing sessions, especially considering some damage, but I'm fully prepared to support your proposal to know all the details. That's what's being published, of course. I think the prices recently announced are how much one session costs in terms of hiring labour, electricity and everything that goes. But, of course, I couldn't agree more. Contact the Secretary General's office, they have technical data. Simply, the President's office doesn't have that kind of data, but you'll get all the data from them. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23865	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we need to talk about the amendments. We have three amendments in procedure. In any case, if you do not, after my presentation under my amendment, accept to vote for this, I think you should accept Mr. Veseinovic's amendment. I'd just like to ask a few things here as a question and hope Mr. Secretary can answer me. In fact, here in this room, the Ministry Act has been passed. It hasn't been done that long ago. This was done on 29 August 2013. 38 days ago. When you go to the Assembly site, the last law to be passed and on the site is exactly the Ministry Act. The Ministry Act defines the powers of the Ministry of Finance, that it has certain obligations regarding the conduct of public administration tasks relating to property-law and other real-law relations and that it does an analysis of the effects of the regulations. However, I now ask you, Mr. President, for a little attention from all MPs. At that time, on 29 August 2013, in the Law on Ministrys, "Official Messenger" 76 of 2013, it was defined – the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the preparation of regulations in property and other real-law relations. Now I ask the question - Mr. Minister, who set you up, how did you come to be the one who proposed the regulation? This is the proposal for regulations and the preparation of rules relating to property. The law we are considering is a bill amending the Law on Public Property. Who's supposed to prepare the regulations, but the Department of Justice? We can build another structure, but when the draft law came on the ministries in the procedure, we asked – what's going on? Mr Djelic suggested to me that I propose an amendment to return to preparing regulations in the area of property and other real-law relations at the finance ministry. We discussed it, and we accepted the government's proposal to do it now to the Justice Department. That is, the National Assembly has accepted the government's proposal to go to the Ministry of Justice. Now, 38 days after that, we are discussing and we should say today about the proposal proposed by someone else, not by the Ministry Act. I'm not sure everyone knows their jurisdiction. I'm not saying he doesn't know who's supposed to be doing what he's supposed to do, that would be rude, but obviously not knowing enough. The second thing, the Public Property Act defined in Article 64 that the Property Directorate is keeping records of the property, especially the Republic, and the Directorate is submitting a report to the Government on the state of immovableity in public property no later than 31 May for the previous year. Now I ask the question – is it done on May 31st? And on the board, I asked, do we have that information? We don't have that information. Mr. Minister said the question is, do we now have a serious assessment? So when are we gonna have a serious assessment? That's why there's been a dilemma that's the best time. Is it zero days, three months, six months, or now, as the government proposes, another year of extension? The fact is that it's the same argument, absolutely from word to word, is the same explanation either when the government proposed an extension for six months and when the government proposed an extension for a year. I can blame the Justice Department, as the only authority responsible for proposing this bill, for making a good proposal. But what can I do to resent the Ministry of Finance and, Mr. Minister, to you and your associates? It is you, or the Ministry of Finance, who is own and competent to analyse the effects of the regulation, based on serious assessment, serious analysis, and based on the least report of the Property Directorate on the state of immovableity in public property, which was done, I hope, by May 31st. We didn't get any of that information. I would like to get that answer from you, just as I would like to get that answer in the preparation of the law from the most important in preparation, Mr Selakovic, who is headed by the competent ministry to propose this draft law to the government, and the government as a proposal to deliver it to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23866	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23867	Dear President, Mr. Krstic, colleagues and fellow MPs, there is more than 1,400 various state-run social enterprises in Serbia. I don't know if you've faced it, if anyone's told you that. The losses of these companies are billions of euros. Respected Serbian citizens, unpaid taxes in these companies are over 150m euros. These companies are the source of financial indiscipline and corruption. September 26th. In 2011, this law was passed whose amendments are now on the agenda. Whether one of the directors of public enterprises, I was hoping it would come under this law, would answer because he did not meet his legal obligation in time. And what are the legal obligations? Well, the first copy of the record is that the company is the bearer of property rights. The second is the founder's consent, the third is the amendment to the founding act, the fourth is the application from the Property Directorate. Who didn't do it? This should have been explained by this law why change is proposed. What are we going to do with 70,000 private enterprises in Serbia, small, micro, medium and large? How do they have to fulfil their legal obligation to report assets based on which they compete with banks or the Development Fund or pre-accession funds for some credit? Do you know of the fact that two private sector workers are funded by a state official, and there are 550,000 in Serbia? These are the serious problems we've faced. I would like you to answer some of my questions, where the biggest problems are in which public enterprises in Serbia and what you plan to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23868	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23869	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Dr. Stefanovic, I must express my regret that you are now chairing the assembly session, I would like to continue to pollute, but who will please the opposition, who will please the people. There's Mr. Djuric who wants you to hold the presidency, but I have a desire to continue the quality of the controversy, but that's how we live in it. Mr. Baptizer, you're nervous. Mr Krstic, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the only parliament in the galaxy where the ruling majority of the SNS headed is conducting an obstruction of parliamentary work. That so far, I have well studied the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, it has not been recorded. There have been examples and attempts by the opposition to try to obstruct parliamentary work, but to do so by power, it has not been recorded in annals. How do you view this obstruction? Here today is the best picture and opportunity of this and that kind of behavior of the government. In a minute to 12, they remembered to expire this deadline, so let's do something and pass a law like this. If they were really going to work, this law was supposed to come to the agenda in June, July, August, September, right after the government was reconstructed. Unfortunately, we heard the answer from Mr. Ilic, which is why it didn't happen. As soon as they heard that they would be reconstructed, some ministers went to sea and had no time for work for which they were delegated. The ruling majority's MPs mainly deal with the degradation of parliament in the public's eyes and the Satanisation of opposition MPs. Of course, we're here on Sunday to discuss a matter of minutes to 12 to discuss a very important agenda point. I have no doubt that the ruling majority will reject any amendments proposed by the opposition. That doubt of mine is not because I think they don't like me or hate me. On the contrary, I was in the Finance Committee's session just before, and I was not finished with the Committee, and there was a paper on the table saying that the Committee refused all amendments even though it was still the Committee's session in progress. It's a model of behavior. It's not proof of efficiency. If you were effective, we'd have these amendments to the law, as I said in September. If you were effective, you would allow and accept the law on the nostrification of diplomas proposed by DS, that Mr. Finance doesn't have to work with high school, but would recognize his university. I respect his university, it's hard to finish that college, much harder than Tomislav Nikolic's college, but I have a few things to tell you. You don't have to deal with Mr. Cross what's not done. It's easy to do what's not done. Nothing has been done for the past few months as long as this government is in its place. I'm sorry they sent you here to sacrifice you for this law. I'd like to discuss tax laws with you, tax measures and what lies ahead. You're not a man of the past, not by age, not by your career, not by your education, not by your knowledge. You really are a man of the future. But it's up to us to decide how that future and you and we will be remembered. Whether you will be and remain in that future remembered as a member of the worst government since the arrival of the Southern Slovenians to the Balkans or you will be and will be remembered as someone sacrificed by the same government. I would sincerely regret that if that happened, we'd get along right now. I expect that you are really reforming the public sector and the finance sector. To remain remembered as Laza Pachu was remembered. A laza before you was already the best finance minister in Serbia's history. Lazar Pachu lived from 1855 to 1915. Pasic, the Prime Minister, and Pasic did not have the first Deputy Prime Minister, you know how scared he was. When he tightened, he managed to survive Serbia's first Balkan and Second Balkan wars and World War I. He spent the money domestically. This place where public companies work, it was a mental noun because there was no public company at the time, and this is how someone behaves in the finance sector, so you know how he trembled. You know how, Pasic and he were best friends, Pasic didn't refer to him as his son, he was a father for Pasic, and that's the father for finance, but you know how he was afraid of Pasic. When he entered parliament, when he passed a package of tax laws, the king had to borrow money from Laza Pachu and return to the dinar. When we talk about public enterprises and their borrowing and their non-domestic behaviour and money spending, the best example of how these directors of public enterprises are having non-domestic relations with assets entrusted to them is the fact that in 14 months, you probably haven't heard that, how these people, the directors of public enterprises are announced, as experts, extra-party personnel, people who think at cosmic speed, and they just seem to be wasting cosmic speed. You know, when a public firm director doesn't show any interest in the property he's been entrusted with. We passed that law two years ago, expecting four necessary things to be done under that law. There's a Ms. Counsellor, your assistant secretary of state at the ministry, who's done her part of the job phenomenally. Believe me, we can't be mad at her and anyone in the finance ministry at all because these people followed what people in public enterprises are doing, but she can't take the gun, rehearse and go to the CEO of the EPS and say -- you can't pay 15 million dinars of unallocated profits, and I don't know what they get through salaries and surpluses, you have to go to the vault. She can't go to the director of the railway and tell him -- you can't spend five thousand euros for one lunch in France. It can't, it's not normal. These directors of public enterprises were to make a copy of the records that the rightholders, to obtain the consent of the founders, to amend the founding act, to apply to the Property Directorate, that the property was registered in a single record. See which of the directors of public enterprises has not even formed a commission to determine what the property of a public enterprise is. And in the first session of the government, the team that calls you "son," say now I'm dad, and I suggest that these shifts, everyone at home, because they don't manage the property they're entrusted with. Otherwise, in a year's time, we will discuss extending the deadline for public enterprises to establish their assets. Then we from the DS will really have to pass, not a law on the abolition of public enterprises, but a law on the protection of Serbian citizens from the Government of the Republic of Serbia because a law must be passed that protects citizens from such a government. I'm not going to tell you about the amendment I gave up. There were some concerns about the ruling majority as to why the text of one amendment submitted by one DS MP, with the text of the second and third amendments, was not agreed. This was best explained to you by Mrs Gordana Komic. Although the water from the pool has not entered your ears much, and if you take off your water polo caps and look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure on Labour, you will see that this Rules of Procedure provides for MPs to submit amendments. And don't ever say, "I'm on behalf of the MP group, you and I." Well, this is not where we were delegated by political parties and parliamentary groups, but by the citizens of Serbia. Everything we do, we do for the sake of Serbia's citizens' well-being, and for the sake of Serbia's citizens' well-being, I will tell you why I handed over an amendment different from my colleagues. Otherwise, it's an amendment that was absolutely in line with the legal proposal that part of the government sent to the National Assembly a few days ago, so you better pull it back. I support that part of the government that handed over such a law and I'm sorry that this part of the government is too loud, but that's when you have a reformed government that's about to go to elections. For the end, for those of you who respect us for everything and everything, I have to say, maybe you really think you're the best and the smartest, and maybe you really think we don't know where the Sparrows are, and where the Srbobran is, but I'm from Kruševci. I saw when they came to Kruševac, you don't seem to speak to yourself, your ministers don't speak to each other. You know how they came, Mr. Cross, into the Krushevac? I'm every minister in the car like he's not talking to that minister from his party, at least two can drive, and nothing better has happened to us in Krusevec after visiting SNS Krusevec. I'm glad to see my colleagues. Some of them are my friends. I'd really like that. The political parties should represent the people representing them to the cities of Serbia, we should see that, but we did not get any better afterwards. And in the end, I have to ask you, keep an eye on your thoughts, your thoughts become words, your words become deeds or misdeeds. Sundays become habits, habits become character, and character becomes destiny, but unfortunately, the fate of the people is not yours. Therefore, the wording from word to destiny is very short, but again I underline, we are much more interested in deeds, not words. In words, you were very strong in the election campaign, you're in the works, unfortunately, when you sat in the chairs much weaker and this law shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23870	Mr. Cvian has his word on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23871	Dear Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Friday when the debate on this law was in principle, I said on behalf of the SNS MPs' club that we would be happy to vote in favour of the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement, and today, here it is, an opportunity to say directly to the minister and to support that the Government has rejected all three amendments that the opposition has submitted. We do find these amendments in some way unacceptable. Here, to start from the very beginning, since Mr. Minister was not here on Friday, of course, we support that he then spoke to foreign investors and we are very pleased that finally a large number of foreign investors came to Serbia, which has confidence in Serbia, which has confidence in the legal system, which has confidence in this Government of the Republic of Serbia and we do not, of course, want to resent the minister for having been at such meetings on Friday, so of course, that Minister Igor Mirovic has done his part of the job very well and defends this law, but, therefore, here is to remind all of us and the citizens who are looking at what we are actually talking about here. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to amend the Law on Public Property where one word is changed, I repeat again -- one word; and we have heard at least 100 times in the current discussion that the opposition, parts of the opposition also honor the president of the National Assembly that they respect the government that they did not have enough time to prepare. They had two days to prepare to discuss a law where one word changes. Of course, the law entered the assembly procedure fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, fully in accordance with constitutional and democratic principles, but apparently two days are being respected that some of the opposition were not enough to prepare for a discussion where one word changes in the law. Had it been luck two years ago, then the majority would have thought this way in detail about the adoption of this law when it was passed, and it was brought two years ago, and about some other moves, surely Serbia would have looked different, perhaps the elections would have ended slightly differently. But here, let's see what these amendments are and why, as an authorised representative of the SNS, do I think they should be rejected? We have three amendments from the same party, the opposition same parliamentary group, one amendment says - no deadline should be two years; the second amendment says - no deadline should be two years and three months; and the third amendment - not two years and six months. If there was more time, I would have expected the fourth amendment in which it would have been written – no, the deadline should be two years eight months 16 days two hours and three minutes. For me, it is a situation where one opposition party, one parliamentary group, submits three different amendments to one word that is changed in the law or a reflection of non-synchronization or a reflection of one type of obstruction. Of course, or as some of my colleagues now say - disunity, or it is a reflection of a kind of obstruction. Today, the president of the National Assembly and the ruling majority are also honored to have us obstruct this assembly, and I don't know how to call the situation when I get these amendments to discuss them like this. At the end of the line, it would certainly have cost less if we had discussed on Friday and today a subject that is indeed a topic of the agenda, but we heard the Vrbas elections, we heard various other topics. I know it's interesting for citizens to hear if the government is Vojvodina and its representatives, whether they came with 50 jeeps or 30 jeeps yesterday in Vrbas, but that's not the topic of discussion. The subject is this law. So, the amendments that have been submitted, I wish they were well-intentioned, but then one amendment would be submitted and it would be said at how many years should it be, but well, in any case, there's another reason why we think it's three years, how many Minister Krstic and confirmed a good term? In fact, two years ago when the Law on Public Property was passed, it was then estimated that two years would be enough for the rights of public enterprises to be entered in land books to be entered. It's obviously... Mr. President, I would really like to ask that if anyone has a replica when I'm done, but not to fall into my word as I speak. So we need to get one more thing straight right now. In these two years, as far as this law applies, the vast majority of people who run public enterprises have done their obligations under this law, have entered the rights in land books, so the vast majority has done. Of course, in a number of cases in practice, there has been a problem. This problem is very often for a legal reason. Lawyers in the National Assembly will not agree, they must have met with it, sometimes it is technically very difficult to enroll rights due to the existence of a large number of disputes, due to the existence of large legal gaps from some earlier times. Of course, there are disputes with private persons, there are records of restitution, etc. A whole series of problems that in practice led to the fact that it was simply legal, technical, here and legal saying, it is impossible to enroll certain rights in land books within two years of the law. That law was passed two years ago. He predicted a two-year deadline. It is not then the happiest, obviously, that deadline reflects and now it remains for this government, Minister Krstic, to extend that deadline, to bring what is in practice, what is on the ground with the legal system. One word, the other day we discuss the law where, I repeat, we change one word – technical change. The result of the fact that when the Public Property Act was passed, it wasn't exactly the happiest written, but that was two years ago, I repeat. Of course, in general, we need the law, it's a good law, a European law, it needs a lot to change but not over the knee. The amendments to this law should be seriously considered, and changes to other laws should be seriously considered, which I agree with the work of MPs, even the opposition who said we should discuss this seriously, and I am glad that Minister Krstic is ready to talk seriously about changes to the law. We see that it is also prepared to organise public debates, which is very nice, it is one European fluid, one maximum democratic fluid, to hear the opinion of all interested, all to whom the law applies. It'll be a theme in some future session. For all these reasons I said, in voting day, the SNS will, of course, uphold the law. We will also support here in this way that the government has not accepted amendments that obviously, here I am speaking as a lawyer, so that no one else is experiencing that I am personally attacking him, but to me as a lawyer the amendments that have been filed are not clear. I don't understand why the same group of people are putting up with different amendments when it comes to numbers. Unless it's an obstruction or some desinchronization in some lack of communication in their parliamentary group. I hope that, of course, the discussion will continue in the cultural course, it didn't begin, but I thank Mr. Unsatisfactory Stefanovic for bringing all this back to some cultural flows, and if I am, since I see that many, i.e. Some advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if anyone thinks I said something incorrect, I apologize in advance, it wasn't my intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23872	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23873	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Baptizer, first I'd like to welcome you here. You're in this house for the first time. If you stay Minister of Finance, know that you will spend between a third and a half of your time here. So it goes in our system and it's these difficulties of transition, that finance is often a place where things break down. 12 years ago, I defended the first law, which wasn't the Tax Act, but that seems to me to be some first difference. There was a cancellation of the subscription. We suggested that that day and the Assembly abolished the public service subscription. Your government has been talking about it for months, and nothing's done about it. That day I was authorized, because under the Ministry Act, it was my jurisdiction. You're not in charge today of thinking that the fact that this government not only doesn't know what deadline it takes to extend, for one day they say it's six months, and three days later, I guess after you've done three, four consultations, it takes a year. It's all extremely unserious. And what about the indifference my colleague Mikovic spoke of, that you didn't even notice that you had changed the Ministry Act? You missed it and here you should actually be Minister Selakovic, not you, not Mirovic, and at least a colleague, Radulovic, who seems to me to be the only one who talks about this topic. That's why we in the DS have not a dose of coldness but a lot of security that, unfortunately, since you haven't done anything, and a representative of the Ministry of Finance, who's here, so I guess because he's not in the political game, on the board, you have records, you have a video of it, she told the truth. Asking why you're asking for an extension, she said – Mr. Djelic, we didn't do anything. Now, that's true, and that's why we, as DS, are proposing to you today a choice to help you. It's obvious that you don't know for yourself what you need to extend the deadline, so since you've changed your mind within three days, and this has been going on for two days, we've allowed you to possibly change your mind again, so that, instead of being a year, it's either a year or nothing if you've done something or three months or six months in the meantime. Anyway, much faster than you suggested. We've just heard that it's just one word, but sometimes one word is important when two people get married, for example. There are important things. You needed the entire government to offer one word. That was your final range, so then within three days you changed that one word and now we have to take your word for it. The citizens of Serbia believe you less and less every day. For one word, for two words, for three words. What we heard today from the newly-roasted minister doesn't give us confidence. He told us -- here, now we're gonna do some serious analysis, we're gonna see what's going on here. You don't even have a beginning of analysis. You've been telling me for months during your previous term that you've been working on that employee database. Let me remind you, the only thing that's not public property is people. It's the only thing that doesn't concern this law. You, Mr. Krstic, have told us about the only thing in the domain of public enterprises that does not concern this law, the Law of Public Property, and these are people. It's all state, except for the people who are employed there. That's why I think it would be much more important if you wanted to, and I want it to be personal to you, to leave you a clue, not to start by realizing that you have four salaries, as if you didn't accept it yourself. In "The Imprint of the Week," you said it would be so. You've already begun to lose credibility. At the first TV show, you said there'd be an increase in receipts, and now you're surprised what was done like that. Don't make any sense of things. You're the government. If you don't like something, change it, answer it. The less citizens will believe you about someone else's fault. It is very clear here that this government is to blame for the lack of a set-up of public and public utility assets, and that one word has great consequences. These consequences are of a political nature because as long as we don't have real decentralisation, and it actually concerns public and public utility companies, we can have a well-organized state. The fact that a JKP does not have registered assets, there are certain political consequences that we have seen by continuing to debate on the executive bodies of some political parties about leading public enterprises, and there you have again seem to have forgotten that you have voted on the Law on Public Enterprises, where these leading people must not be party persons, and it is certain that the departisation, which in the vast majority of our citizens want, will be greatly supported by the entry of that property, because then these public enterprises, public utility companies, have to be asked for a much more credible sense of property, which is only offered to professional management, so that they can do business without asking a political dad or political mom, because today this system is that any more important business move must be asked for consent because of property, which is given only for use, and even more due to some credit arrangement from the founders, where some people are selected by nature. It's not easy matter. We need to find the right balance between, on the one hand, democratically secure control of state resources and we need not go back to finding out who knows which way to demagogue to say that those who have chosen citizens cannot appear anywhere. Well, I guess that's the core of democracy. At the same time, modern mechanisms, and this law and this word that you want to change today were a step forward so that that Pandora's box of politicisation in the public sector would be opened in a transparent manner, then closed and where it belongs, in municipalities, cities, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where several parties and governments have to account for the public of its work, so that we can see how this thing will intersect. Of course, this law I defended two years ago is also a fruit of discussion. It was not easy to settle a large number of legitimate interests in the public sector, at the level of local self-government, cities, provinces. It was the subject when we discussed this law, one word, an hour ago, but what's important to say is that now, when you propose to postpone the application of this law, we have no reason to be convinced that you will introduce more order into that public sector. In the economic part, I will not repeat the arguments we discussed during the debate in principle, and later my colleague Veselinovic discussed it this morning. When you told us that Friday you weren't with us, and you had to be, and I expect that now in any case, except for some key obstacle that must be well explained, as a key minister in this government, I don't know if you're aware of that, you have to be here. This is where things work out. They don't make deals in Washington. Sheik can't decide which way public finances go. Now you've told us indirectly that you're negotiating for an additional debt, Eurobond. What's going on here? What's the public debt going to be? For four billion euros more and an additional two billion, you have already announced this to us, by the end of this year. You have become the minister of finance in the government, which has been the fastest in debt to a European country since World War II in transition countries. That's a fact. The 25% increase in debt has not been done by any other country within a year. Greece didn't take on that speed either. Why is this important within these amendments and this law? I don't think you're aware of that. By registering public enterprises' assets, especially the largest one carrying five billion euros in debt, they become possible economic factors that can pawn their own assets. A serious government would, following the adoption of these amendments, possibly quickly implement this list and then ensure a discussion with the creditors that a number of state guarantees, which have been given, are removed and that the creditors accept the property of these companies now legally, established as security for their claims. Here is an idea that can ensure that the public debt of Serbia that you have increased by six billion euros, as it will be by the end of this year, is reduced by at least a few hundred million euros. If he says he won't, you tell them that at this point there is not so much, because of the government's policy, other opportunities to invest, that those commercial banks that gave their loans know that they will have to meet with the state again and that they would be much smarter to accept the securitys given to them by public enterprises such as "EPS", "Serbigas", than to seek the systematicism to continue to guarantee the budget of the Republic of Serbia, some cities and some municipalities. That's why it's very important. It's also important because finally and in this way, not through some extra institutional stuff, personal cards... Please inform the Minister of Economy that it does not exist. I.D. only has citizens. Public enterprises have what's legally regulated. These enquiries that are being sent can't have effect, but we need to concentrate on law enforcement. Through the implementation of this law, Mr. Minister, you will get the only real picture of what exactly this "ZTP" has, how "PTT" forms its profit. Whether it's from some property or some basic activity. I think it's going to be a very interesting debate. Does the ZTP really need the state-of-the-art scanner in our country that only people who work in this public enterprise or by my information are charged to other users, i.e. that “RFZO” has to pay? Does the EPS need a travel agency? Do we, at the moment of this great crisis, still have a number of public utility companies that have real estate in some lakes, in some summer homes and provide their employees with additional benefits? While you're looking at their salary, you don't actually see how many other benefits they have because of the assets that these public enterprises make available. Then eventually, as someone who needs a full balance of state, the Ministry of Finance, and generally the Government will be able to look at a comprehensive picture and say – this property is best used at this level. The destinations of that property optimally looking is to remain state-owned, to be leased or possibly sold. Here's another idea to come up with so much resources, that one word is worth hundreds of millions of euros. It's not the government's work that costs these citizens pepper. The sovereign debt could have been reduced. One part of the property could have been given to some other companies under transparent conditions so that they could do better business. How many people say - I can't build, and there are empty halls that belong to some public enterprises, and today the noises are empty. It's real life. You're no longer a consultant, no more power-point presentations. Today must be done directly. There are some things that need to be determined, and it's up to you to make up your mind. It can't always be analysed, it has to take responsibility. I suggest you start taking that responsibility. I have five simple questions for you, and I'd like you to give us an answer today, and if you don't have an answer to say one thing, and that's -- Mr. Djelic, I don't know, I just arrived, it's not my profession, I'm going to learn, give me another day, another week, another month. This has certain consequences, and that is all someone else might do much faster in some other setting. Here's the first question - which public enterprises, starting with the biggest ones, have finished this job, which are not and why? How far did this process go, and who should be responsible for this inaction? I think it's fair because it has consequences for the citizens. The second question, if during which hour do you have without us most of you to vote this law and extend the deadline by 365 days – in which day of those 365 days will be adopted which plan and which enterprise will enter the framework of the law? Do you even have that plan? Do you know when the EPS will finish this job? Do you know since we heard that possibly "Srbigas" handed over those funds, are you going to register that property or are you going to break "Srbigas" as the Minister of Resor says? I ask you, we do not participate in this debate, but you say one moment – so it will be, and then we hear that this property will go to another destination. It doesn't matter. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is being exposed to about a billion euros in the company. We don't have any day-to-day policy references in this domain, we're looking for answers to a billion-euro fund of this nation. The third question – what will you do with an asset that will not be left to public enterprises? What's your plan? Your government is working very non-transparently. I have a question for you because we can't get... Minister Mirovic, who was here two days ago, told us that – you have the legal right to know what the contract is between JAT and Etihad, but I will not give it to you. Take the legal route, and you'll get it. What's the idea? To get a full picture of that arrangement after the flight of the first Air Serbia plane, to make spin marketing, and then to see that 900 people in JAT lost their jobs and for their business a good part of the risk is borne by the Republic of Serbia and that the Arab side has not taken any of the cents, no dollar from what was past and is ready to make all the profits, and that we will share any losses with them. Is that true? How old are those planes gonna be? We heard they were new, we don't know that. Mr. Minister, promise us today that you'll give us within a day or two as long as it takes to get a photocopy, we're serious people we know that there may be some provisions that are business secrets, but you'll explain why. Give us the contract. Put him on your ministry's website. What's the problem? If it is Serbia's great success, let's all rejoice together. We'll say hello. It's not easy being in the aero industry. The previous government, even though we didn't run that resort, failed to find a partner. It's very difficult, but let's see what are the specific conditions in that domain. The fourth question – what will you do with state resources? We have information and we ask you for transparency, nothing more, that because an arrangement with Al Dahra is not being implemented and that it is seriously considered to give state agricultural land in the amount of several thousand hectares to them as collateral? Mr. Minister, please inform us, but it seems that you do not, nor does Minister Radulovic, seem to be doing this by colleague Dinkic, would you be able to ask Mr. Dinkic to give Mr. Radulovic, or to you or to any of the elements of the negotiations platform, in the sense of public, state property, that some public enterprises are being given as a stock for this arrangement one of the most valuable resources of this country, which is state agricultural land? Finally, the last question for you is – would you be able to confirm the agreement on the Finance Committee, which we reached on the DS proposal, but it is important that we also hear your voice that by the end of the year, I don't know who else, you, the Minister of Business, the minister of justice who is in charge here, because it is obvious that you have changed the law and I wanted to propose on behalf of our party and the amendment to keep it in the Ministry of Finance because it was the right place. Today we see that the Justice Department is proposing that the entire operation that needs to be carried out is still in the Ministry of Finance. However, do you accept before the citizens of Serbia that by the end of the year you come to any form that is convenient and legally more or less well-founded, that you finally make an account for this House, so when you've already said one word, you've extended the deadline for 365 days to do something very important for the citizens, that in less than 90 days, you come by the end of the year and tell us how far you've come. Finally, let's see if you're not far away from what you're going to do and who's responsible for it. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23874	The remaining time of the DS parliamentary group is four minutes and 40 seconds. Mr Djelic spoke for 20 minutes, and five minutes is taken from the MP's group's time, meaning that four minutes and 40 seconds remain for the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23875	Mr. Djelic, I believed that you would understand the seriousness of the situation in which we are currently both the seriousness of the function and that with this experience that you had here in the early 2000s, when this privatisation actually started, I don't know how it was then conducted without this property information, that you would have a little bit more, if you don't understand, then respect for the function itself. Let me answer these five questions you asked. I will answer only to those who are in my jurisdiction in fact. What public enterprises? This is all about what the property of public enterprises is and it's not just 35 of them. As you know, the Ministry Act, which you are referring to, has divided the responsibility between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, has divided the responsibility as well as the Ministry of Finance that is responsible for financial control of public enterprises, while the Ministry of Economy is going to carry out operationally in the work of their restructuring where necessary. You're referring to IDs. ID cards are the mechanism chosen by the economy minister at the moment to enter into talks with these companies where it is necessary and with the dynamics needed. Of the total number, of about 803, this is public information, and I hope it does, the companies to which the requirements are addressed, these are restructuring requirements, unprivatised enterprises, public enterprises which are 35, only 29% of them are not cooperating at the moment or have not cooperated. Those who cooperate, that's important, and that's the same case with the register that we're going to have for the first time for employees, so I mentioned it, there are great technical problems to get things right, to actually enter the data physically to know what it's about. And with that in mind, we have to make a decision, and it's a responsibility, which I certainly take on myself when I say 12 months here in this extension law, to take responsibility for making a decision whether we're going to break now, simply push things into public property, which we understand is making a lot more problems that we can't solve than we are already solving, or we're going to give ourselves some deadline that we think is real after consulting with all the relevant entities, and there are a lot of them here, and where we're going to be able to stick to it and see that after those 12 months, both for these public enterprises and for local self-government, we can point our finger and say this -- we didn't do this, we have a measure to translate it into public property then, and whether the directors of public enterprises are responsible at local level or not to hold responsible for that. When and any day who finishes the entry, which was your question, the public records, the records. Of course I can't give you the right answer when some day the company will do it and it doesn't matter. The important thing is that in 12 months, we have all that data. For that data, and that's where we go back to this personal card mechanism, for those companies that matter earlier, because the state was either giving them guarantees or continuing or there's pressure to keep on giving guarantees, we're doing it faster, and that's why we're introducing a mechanism to talk to these companies to have an information base based on which we can draw conclusions for the first time. What are we gonna do with the property? We'll write it down first and then we'll decide what to do with the property. You've made it very clear that it's also related to the Law on Restitution and to many other processes and the completion of privatisation that has been initiated by anyone who knows when and a bunch of other things. We'll see what we can actually do with what property. Where the state shouldn't be the owner and it's not the natural owner of that property that we try to give that property to those where it makes the most sense and where that property can bring back the biggest multipliers either for our economic growth, or for our budget. You asked me – what about state resources specifically for agricultural goods? You know, in 2011, you say that you supported this law, that under Article 8 of this current law agricultural land, or the legal regime of agricultural land is governed by a special law, and that is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. It's always been. I didn't fully understand, but I don't think the fifth question is something I'd have to answer in the context of the amendment debate on the Public Property Act, this last question you mentioned about JAT and Etihad. I hope that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23876	MP Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I enjoyed listening to the inspired speech of the former finance minister, former Deputy Prime Minister. I'm just asking a question -- does anyone really think that citizens have such short memories and that they don't know what was going on while he was in those public functions? It's a story of RTS and a subscription. It is true that they cancelled the subscription, but it is true that they were five years old when they were in the government after the cancellation of the subscription that same subscription did not bother them. Otherwise, it's about an idea maker of the famous tax on use, holding and carrying goods. You bought a car and every time you register it, you have to pay taxes on use, holding and carrying goods. It's the same vice president who freed the planes and yachts of tax on use, holding and carrying goods. That's the same minister who introduced the tax on his cell phone. I don't know what you're talking about right now and what these replacements are. The Greek script story ended at the end of July or early in August 2012 when the state was miraculously in charge of nearly 60% of GDP. When the four billion deficit is mentioned, which is not true first, let's look at the structure of the current deficit, which is about 172 billion dinars. Of that, 60% goes to the repayment of debts owed by the previous government, and 40% to Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank. So, gentlemen of the DS, we don't want you to attribute your results to us. You have your results, which is 300,000 new unemployed citizens of Serbia. You boast of yours, and we will boast of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23878	National MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23879	Infringement of Article 104(2), Mr Stefanovic. On what basis did Veroljub Arsic now speak? In addition to him, as far as I know, the head of the SNS Parliamentary Group, and on the other hand, an authorised representative at this point. Mr. Arsic received a replica as – what? A mobile phone expert? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23880	At the moment Mr. Arsic was deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Babic was not in the O.R. So he went out at that point. After all, we can get the tape back if you don't believe it. I was there, I saw it, and since it's my jurisdiction, I gave him my word as deputy head of Parliament, which is very clearly written in the Rules of Procedure. Although, even if Mr. Babic was in the O.R., it wouldn't be the first time and it wouldn't be a right that I didn't approve of other opposition people. If you want, we can make it a rule. I don't mind that at all. But then don't look for any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, replicas and anything else if the heads of the Parliament Clubs are in the O.R. and they're not answering. Then I won't let anyone else do it. I thought it was much more important to hear what people have to say than to stick to the form of whether Babic came out for five minutes or is there. Mr. Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23881	With all our best intentions, the fact is that one word is changing here, it is implicitly confirmed that this regime in power also confirms the validity of this concept. You criticized a lot two years ago, some of the MPs present, this law, but we see that as a concept it confirms – one word changes. It's so much worse because today we don't have any concrete answers to my five questions. So I didn't get a single answer. We shall see what We have heard, when it is, and when it is, and then we shall see what we will do. That's what I heard from the answer. One more thing, you can't tell us here as finance minister that, well, I'm talking about amendments, and then I'm going to run off to some mouse hole, and I don't want to answer you about JAT and Etyhad. I apologize, under the Ministry Act, the finance ministry is responsible for the integrity of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia and for all implicit and explicit guarantees. You are invited to tell us if the arrangement is exposed to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and you cannot tell us that it is done by another minister. It is true that the Law on Agricultural Land regulates various aspects, but if you want to manage this country, you must also have a certain policy, a doctrine, and to say – our approach will be that the state agricultural land will not or will be used as collateral in various arrangements. Let me tell you a clear view of DS. The Democratic Party will also propose a certain law, which is that it should be prohibited to sell and stock agricultural land in state property. We have a clear proposal and a clear policy and we suggest that it be so... (President: Time)... So hopefully in this second answer, you'll tell us something a little bit more precisely, because even the most basic thing I asked you to do, I'm ending up with this, Mr. President, you gave me the wrong list. You're the wrong minister today who gave us the wrong list. I asked you – which public enterprises did the job? You told me – some enterprises in restructuring. Answer us how many 36 key public enterprises have done a job, which are not – why not and see you by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23882	Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23883	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SPS Parliamentary Group on the proposed law was laid out by my colleague Zoran Kasalovic in the principle debate. We thought that was enough for these proposed amendments to the law. However, I want to briefly just repeat that view, given that much is said and out of this proposed law. In order not to confuse the citizens, I will only briefly say about the amendment, or amendments that have been made to the proposed law. Just to remind you that the Law on Public Property was passed in September 2011, a very large, important, system law, which we supported. According to the Law, a public undertaking, a company of capital, whether the founder of a republic, province or a unit of local self-government, were obliged to apply by, or within two years for the registration of property rights on immovable property, where they had the right to use. What do we have now after two years? We have one situation that's not done. We are facing two options – or to support the proposed change proposed by the Government, to extend the deadline for another year, or to apply that other consequence, if within two years public enterprises have not entered, and that is that these immovableities cross over into the state property or property of the province or unit of local self-government. We think this is the second up, the harder, we're back to square one. That's why we supported it, and we'll support the proposal to extend the deadline by a year. Is in a year, six months, we belong to those, as well as the vast majority of citizens, who trust the minister that it is a realistically assessed time in which it can be done. So we will not support the amendments, we will support the proposed amendment of the law. In spite of that, we consider this to be older, as I would say, to extend the deadline rather than apply the consequences of the law. We advocate to determine the reasons why the registration of property has not been carried out in these two years. Is there objective, subjective reasons, any disturbances, anything that prevented it? Or is it subjective responsibility? In that case, we need to establish responsibility and see who's responsible for it. Otherwise, both governments had time to solve the problem. She was 10 months old, 14 months old. When I say Government, first of all, I think of those who were directly in charge of the area. So we need to determine. You need to see why it wasn't done. The responsibility should be determined where it is. But right now it is much more important to adopt an amendment to the law extending the deadline by a year than to re-enter it as property, as state property, as property of Serbia, the province, units of local self-government. So, I repeat, we will support the proposed amendments and we will not support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23884	Thank you. National MP Aleksandra Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23885	Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, the proposings of these amendments today practically disavowed the public in the afternoon debate with the fact that the ministry responsible for the issue is the Ministry of Finance. The reason I state this is because the Property Directorate is not the only legal entity that has a complete record of the list of assets of the Republic of Serbia. If we heard that everything that is in the public sector, and what concerns enterprises in restructuring, practically public property, except employees, then it is extremely irresponsible of those who have proposed such amendments in some three parts, two years, two years and three months, two years and six months, to show that they simply think this Serbia well, because the deadline for reporting property was two years, but if you have reported the property in the past year, public enterprises have been functioning, they have done something, so they have entered certain investments that are under way, with final accounts. The investment can only be entered in the Property Directorate when payment is completed and property becomes a specific legal entity. Therefore, even at that moment, the past directors who were in the past meeting of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they respected their duty to report property, have practically failed to complete their obligation, because the functioning of public enterprises is variable in terms of the economic category of property of the Republic of Serbia. What this government has shown its ultimate responsibility is that it has given an additional deadline to end 24 privatisations, requested not only by this government, but also by the EU, which may establish that some of the privatisations of certain properties have been done in one illegal way, where a certain type of property of certain public enterprises may be returned to state property on the basis of these judgments, so it will be determined on the basis of restructuring, which is also a legal obligation, to end by the end of this year, to establish that some state property, and something is not state property. Therefore, this deadline that has been given to extend that for another year is fully justified. Finally, it should be said that, as far as the director of public enterprises is concerned, it should not be seen from the point of view for the last six months, a year. We have had directors of public enterprises who are extremely senior officials of DS, for example, Mr. Cviva, Babić, who is also the director of a public enterprise, Mr. Ceran, who are also vice-presidents of the city board of DS. What we insist on, as a SNS, is that the property of the Republic of Serbia should be placed in one place, but have the right information about how much this property is, and therefore takes some time to complete certain investments. If we're talking about investments in the EPS area, then these are certain energy facilities that can't be enrolled in the Property Directorate until that investment is completed. So if we're talking about some of the "Serbian"-run facilities, then it's dams, then it's dikes, which are also the property of the Republic of Serbia. Until they are paid to the full by the state, they cannot be enrolled in the Property Directorate. Therefore, it is necessary to determine why this law was essentially passed. It's true that it's a 12-month change, it's true that it's one, that member of the law, but it's the essence of the government's responsibility to exactly what the state owns. After all, Serbian citizens have the highest responsibility to the state, as well as to the state. If the state has a responsibility to the citizens, then it has to show that we really own that property. If we don't put that property in proper records, then we don't know what we're up against. If we don't know what we're up against, then we can't run a responsible economic policy and that wasn't the case in previous governments, because, for example, the energy policy in the reconstructed government was led by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, as was led by the Ministry of Finance. As you can see, it's one irresponsibility, and this applies to the Ministry of Finance in the big domain. It is not true, therefore, that only the Justice Ministry, led by Mr Selakovic, is responsible for the property of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, by justifying great and respect and, in a way, by supporting the SNS, these amendments should be rejected because they show one irresponsibility to the opposition. If there had been some constructive proposals, if there had been really justified proposals, in terms of change, changes and additions to this law and amendments, surely the ruling coalition would have considered it and certainly would have found some compromise solution. Based on all these previous statements and those views you have heard from our MPs, it is evident that there is a different view on the legal side and on the economic side of certain proposals for legal solutions, and because of that it is certain that many MPs in the opposition benches believe that this is not exactly an adequate proposal from the Ministry of Finance. But we, with great support, are giving proposals that the Ministry of Finance will surely adopt and a committee that applies exclusively to the economy, will provide solutions that will not only support the Ministry of Economy, but also to the Ministry of Finance, because one without another simply cannot function and cannot do that kind of momentum that in economic terms this Serbia must launch. Therefore, in terms of the amendments themselves, the amendment should be rejected, support for the proposal and amendments and additions given by the finance minister in its reasoning and it should be understood that we must go one new, other way, with a highly responsible policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23886	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23887	I asked to get a replica by Article 104. Since it's impossible, I think it's an injured member of 106, because the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. The previous speaker went far beyond the agenda. Not only was he talking about an amendment that hasn't yet come to order, I think it's gone a lot off the table, especially where it's been pointed out that the Ministry of Finance's indelicacy in the preparation of the regulations. That's what this is about, not tracking the area. It was about preparing regulations and that is clearly said and I think that you, as chairman of the Assembly, should have reacted and said – go back to the agenda. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23888	I had to do it more often today at some other debates, but I think the debate is still under way and I think we're sticking to the agenda. Replica, Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23889	It's not, dear colleague, the thing is that we're all interpreting together what the opposition wanted with the amendments, because I think we've explained it very effectively and clearly. It's not the problem we're discussing today. The problem is much deeper. The problem is called – 14 months of inefficient government. The problem is, when you see it yourself, somewhere inside you'll surely admit it's unfortunately true. But since whenever you face an obstacle that you yourself have set or failed to do something that you had to do, then, unfortunately, not personally, but a parliamentary group and an organisation to which you belong, it always moves in the direction of an alibi of politics and policy attacks on predecessors, because you don't know how to explain the current lack of results or visions for the future. That's what essentially brings Serbia to the bottom. The moment you're able to stand up here and talk with us about what's currently in this problem and what you're going to do for the future, and when you're not yourself, but the advances, you're able to stand up and say-- these are the things we all have to do together for the benefit of this country, and these are the things that we admit we've failed to do and what are objective mistakes, then this Parliament and this society and this country are going to be a much healthier place than they are. As long as this story continues, while I'm stopping time here, until the gentleman mentions Alexander Vukic and mentions the evil government of Mirko Cvetkovic and the terrible criminalized structure called DS, that's it. So, the moment you succeed in defeating yourself, which is often successful by Mr. Vukic, although not too much lately, then you will be able to say – we are really leading Serbia in the right direction and only the best go forward and the other things that you play in the villages around Vrbba. But until then... . (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, while it all comes down to it – Mirko Cvetkovic, your Government, Bozidar Djelic, and I don't know what, citizens don't have, unfortunately, any use, and you can't hide the lack of any results of your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23890	Replica, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23891	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I know that our opposition colleague is very difficult to understand that the government's responsibility is essential to the objective and way of functioning of this Serbian government. But our responsibility, in doing so, was a big problem for them to realize that the record of state property in general is one of the priorities of this country, that we know what we have. It is the easiest thing not to wait for 24 privatisations and not wait for restructuring and all of this to be stated under the password – we are effective, so now we need to be reduced by about 30% of the total state property, and we will sell it through our specific DS companies. We don't think that way and we don't want our future generations to think that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23892	I'm just asking you to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly when you discuss it. The word has Mr. Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23893	Mr. President, there's been too often this situation that we've just seen. So I pray you, and I appeal to you once again, and do not let the pteriors say to people: “I ask you to take care of dignity. ” Give me a warning right away. Use the same archaic. It's like when our MPs get a quote from the first Deputy Prime Minister here, yesterday or the day before yesterday, then I think you have to react if someone says -- DS companies, or yesterday, you weren't there when they say we supported NATO bombing. It is a time to say: I warn you. I don't know what's hard about that. We will not allow, I repeat again, with all your intentions, your efforts, your desire and the heat that draws you, to paint these colors of this party and to represent us as a criminal organization. You're not gonna make it. Let him who broke the law answer. You have no right, no one here has the right to have a party that has won 1.8% less than you call for things that don't exist. Not to talk about legitimacy, which is usually a word you've been very fond of lately, which has now put more than ten people on our list to vote for your government. That's the legitimacy. So please take care of it. This is a replica to avoid these things in the future, and efficiency lies in your hands, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23894	Mr. Djuric has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23895	Let's get back to these questions about this law. So, once again I say, Mr. Krstic, I understand that you have no experience of the Serbian political system, of Serbian parliamentary life, but you have the ultimate experience of studying at one of the world's top universities. I'm sure that's where you learned, very well, that you can't answer the question that you're asked to answer by choosing another topic that has no direct connection to that question and then talking about it. It's possible at some Serbian universities and universities, but I'm sure where you went to college it's not possible. Why am I saying this? Because you, answering questions to Mr Djelic, have partially avoided answering the questions that I have asked before. So we asked you very clearly - which republican public and state-owned enterprises have not fulfilled the obligation of this law? You say - but there's a lot, it's not just that, we can't say. Okay, we're not asking you about those other companies, we're asking you about these 35 companies, or 34, because Mr. Bajatovic, meanwhile, answered that he did. Tomorrow you will present some key measures of basic economic policy. You won't be able to do that, Mr. Cross, by showing up in public or at a press conference and saying what you think you should say and leave. You'll be asked questions. You're not answering our questions here today. I'm telling you, in front of this hall, in the hall, it's a custom and practice in the Assembly, you've got journalists waiting for you who have some questions for you. Some of these questions are the same as these questions we asked you. I'm going to help you not to go through that debate in front of this room, to do it in a debate. So, did "Serbian Railways" file demands and sign up for property? Mr. Krstic, I don't know if you know, different public and state-owned enterprises are in different transformation processes. They're divided into several companies. One such company is "Serbian Railways". How do you conduct that transformation if you don't know what property they have? You haven't been here in a long time, Mr. Cross, so I don't think you know what's been going on... Mr. Cross, may I continue? So I guess you don't know what's going on in some laws, but I'm sure you know what's not growing, what's chicken and livestock. I see it's hard for you to spot the connection between the mention of these concepts and public enterprises immediately. But if you talk to Mr. Bajatovic or look at his balance sheet, you will see that he, a man, of mobile property, must hold both the growth and the chickens and make pâtés. Then it becomes a real estate. It's your condition, Mr. Krstic, in Serbian public enterprises. He had to make glass and pâtés, because some government ordered him to. Such enterprises will transform you. You're telling us about this today, about the jump, about the quantum jump. Have you heard of the "Serbian Marks" task force, Mr Krstic, at the PTT Serbia Public Enterprise? I looked at what the work of that task force was. In one activity, they design the look of a postage stamp, and in the other they create the look of a postmark. Have you ever seen, and you've had enough time, for almost two months now, what do the statutes of public enterprises and state-owned enterprises describe the activity of these companies look like? Well, that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. These are the works listed on the ten pages. It is easier to write – all the works of the ciphers than to be cited. Our public enterprises, Mr. Krstic, are authorized to deal with skin-wrestling, to tourism in the EPS, to tourism in the Railways, to tourism in PTT. I don't mind Mr. Milan Krkobic, Dusan Bajatovic, or anyone else as director. They were all doing it or doing it with the consent or tolerance of the government. It's okay for someone to want to be a cosmonaut, but then it's okay for them to invest their time, money and risk it. Our directors of public enterprises want to be cosmonauts, but they use public resources to do so. I didn't understand the remark, Mrs. Tomic. What does that mean that investment is an economically dynamic category, so it can't be recorded at one point? That's true, but... (President: Please do not enter into a debate with the MPs. I'm sorry. ... But then Mrs. Tomic was wrong. Then break the law, then it'll never be possible to sign up for property, because there's always some investment going on. To put aside the mistake made by Mrs Tomic, therefore, part of those things that she instructed as an example of the Law on Public Property cannot be entered into public enterprises, are exclusively state property. So here are a few questions, Mr. Baptizer. I really encourage you, most well-intentioned, to engage in this debate in such a way as to seriously discuss these matters. You've got a much worse job to do. I assume you'll announce a reform of the PIO Fund tomorrow. Have you seen any financial reports from the PIO Fund? Have you seen the Infor on the work of the PIO Fund? Have you seen the current public procurement of small and large value in the PIO Fund? Do you know what's in there? It's also some kind of public property. The same fund has some share in the property of some of these companies that are, for example, in restructuring or not yet privatized. Who's going to have it, Mr. Baptizer? Those 21 members of the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund? You're gonna let them manage it? The Orbovic guy? Well, he's going to attack you tomorrow afternoon that you're an evil neoliberal, and he's going to be supported by his colleagues from that same PIO fund. That's why I just told you - they're waiting for this to end as an episode. You cannot tell the directors of public enterprises – you have another year, then go on TV and draw rewards for those who regularly pay VAT and send bills. Next time someone who has not paid VAT will contact you and will say, "Give it to me, since you are giving the directors of public enterprises a new deadline, then give me the damage to Fabiu, even though I did not pay the tax. It can't work like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23896	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23897	I'll just answer some questions for a second. I've answered you not only for public enterprises that are 35, I've answered you for a whole group of larger companies. Here, I'll go back to the direct question. So, I said - of 803, 234 companies did not, at this point, since the reconstruction of the government, come forward, or respond to the demands of the Ministry of Industry, regarding the delivery of information about their business and property. As for public enterprises, 35 out of 35 reported and provided some information on this. Unfortunately, I have to answer, because that is the case. We analyze the quality of this information, and we don't know how many of them are complete at this point, or by this law it could be said that they can be taken into account. And that's why, and through the discussions that with these public enterprises, with a clear signalling that further extensions cannot be beyond this we have decided that the only responsible solution is because it is the only responsible solution, I think we have to agree, at this point, since we are, not looking at the past, as you said ourselves, to extend it for another 12 months. The very system that has been established in the last month, and this system is that for every conversation that is being conducted, regarding any further State interference in these public enterprises, in their business, whether in property, whether through guarantees or any other way, we need to have a clear picture to discuss it. It's the first time. So, for the first time in fact, before we make a decision on a company, we may not make a decision on all 803 tomorrow, but if we make a decision on one of them tomorrow, for the first time, we will have a diagnosis of the situation that we can make on the basis of not who is the director of that company, which is the party or something, but to make a decision based on how this company operates. Grouse of these companies, total of 803, some are in restructuring, is in trouble. The solutions we make on a daily basis are not good, at least they weren't solutions that create a rebirth story for these individual companies. If we're going to say that for certain companies we're extending their lives into this one, call limbo, before we have a plan, we are now for the first time, actually, we want to have a clear picture of whether these companies and when they can turn around, as they do, and that's one responsible job. After all these years, we are in a situation where we have to do the same for the state precisely because of the level of public debt, and all previous finance ministers in this country, or in any other country, know that you can't stop the locomotive that's going by pulling the hand brake. So the increase in public debt was our source of funding for current costs over the past four or five years. These costs can't disappear tomorrow, but they can disappear relatively quickly if we're determined, through the reform of the previously reported companies and the public sector. I'm glad to have a story about it here, although I'd prefer it if we talked about it in the context of not extending the deadlines because of the inefficientness of these public enterprises, but to talk about how much time it takes and how we're going to ensure, how we're going to commit to actually transforming these public enterprises and within what time we can do it. That's something we'll start talking about tomorrow, Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23898	Replica, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23899	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for a replica and a reminder that was to come, but I apologize for the company's formulation and the DS company. It was simply my intention to show that a lot of people, officials from the DS ranks, had their own companies that functioned directly with the public sector. Of course, we agree that all those companies that didn't do it well, and they have very many elements of corrupt activities, should respond. I think the DS colleagues agree on that, too. In the end, what was supposed to be a replica to Mr. Djuric, I wouldn't add anything after the minister's presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23900	Mr. Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23901	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on my behalf and on behalf of the SNS and its coalition, I will congratulate and welcome our minister, with the desire to meet the expectations that we have and which our party president, Alexander Vukic, has given, because based on his presentations and his visions on how to get out of this crisis, you have accepted it and I hope you will do so. When it comes to the DS amendments, please don't give anything new here to improve this law on public property. It's a good thing the committees didn't accept it, and the Assembly won't accept it by majority vote. You, who have been in power for 12 years, I don't know how you don't know that in the field the property situation is so catastrophic that you haven't been able to get anything in these 12 years. You've had a lot of trouble just selling what's not the property of the state. I'll remind you of just one example, you don't need to move on. On the case of "Luke Belgrade". They sold themselves both land and other real estate. Two-thirds of the people in Serbia thought on October 5th that you would form this country as the modern world is forming in today's 21st century. You've reversed this country for a century with your rule, sold everything that can be sold to others and yours, and I don't know who else you've brought this country to bankruptcy. I must repeat once again, this newly reconstructed government, headed by Alexander Vukic, and with coalition partners, will draw this country out with these reforms that it is up to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23902	Replic on behalf of Parliament's Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23903	Thank you. Dear Chairman, we are repeating again the story we have since practically this government is in office. So it's all someone else's fault just not this government. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, the previous government, the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, passed the Law on Public Property. In the meantime, with various circumstances, you have come to power, made a coalition that you have made and you do not apply this law that costs, which does not apply, costs the citizens of Serbia. Financially, it is not known what the property of public enterprises is and thus cannot be managed and certified. Their halls are empty, which we've already talked about. It's not anyone's fault, it's this incompetent government. You're saying we brought back a century to the state of Serbia. You mean in a way that we signed a Stabilisation Treaty, abolished visas for Serbian citizens who were introduced because of the fact that you were in power. Renovate what was allowed to restore what was destroyed during your power. They brought in electricity that wasn't there while you were ruling, that electricity was even paid in our time, including a television subscription. How we sold everything when you're now selling the land to Etihada, airports, planes, I don't know what you're going to sell to a private family from Emirat. Gentlemen, don't replace the thesis, we have supported many of the laws that you have filed in this assembly and that we thought were good for the country, but unfortunately your national policy has nothing and we unfortunately have nothing to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23904	Article 107, paragraph 2, says - no direct address of the MP is allowed at the meeting of the National Assembly. It's about three applicants of the amendment, one of them is me. A messenger came directly to me and said, "You have given nothing new." So he can speak in a third person, he can't speak directly, at least that's what it says, and in that sense you didn't react.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23905	Just to see in the order of the reported, Mr. Gjuric, you've reached for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23906	She's kind of cursed by this congregation. We're just having a normal debate and then we're going back to this debate. It was very interesting to me what Mr. Krstic was talking about, and you said – let's get going to take care of these public enterprises. I suggest the first concrete, not difficult, step. So you still have public enterprises where no public competition has been called for the selection of directors. The deadline expired on June 30th. Secondly, in almost all the republican public enterprises, there is still a public competition where it is called. How can a commission that ranks candidates who will propose to the government the best candidates even assess how successful they have been if they have not been, let's say the data on whether they fulfilled this obligation under the Public Property Act? If there is no information that implies a three-month report on the business of public enterprises, which is an obligation under the Law on Public Enterprises that no one fulfils, Mr Krstic, there would be no need for requests so-called. Mr Radulovic's ID cards, that all meet the requirements of the law that has been in force for almost a year, nine months and deliver these reports. You should not even have the current guarantees or subsidies that exist from the budget to give to any public enterprise because they have an obligation under the Law on Public Enterprises to deliver their internal transformation plan before that, a plan to spend these funds, a plan that will eventually be removed, so to speak, from some kind of state grant. Do you understand, you are formally going illegally from the budget to these companies, these are Railways, these are some other enterprises through direct subsidies, either through some other kind of budget assistance. It's a good thing after I don't know how many years in this country we've solved this dilemma of what's below the line, what's above it, and that you can't just stamp out state guarantees without it counting on debt. It's kind of stupid to spend the next 10 years figuring out the next notor fact that exists in the public economy, or in public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23907	The word is Alexander Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23908	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I simply cannot express my admiration for this democracy of the DS, which has three MPs, three amendments, I am very interested in which three of them will receive the most votes in their parliamentary group. Given that property is being debated, I don't think it was that important for them, because they haven't had a property ownership problem in 10 or 12 years to be sold at all. Whether it was private, state, social, whatever, was sold in the privatisation process. Whether she had owners, former owners, living owners or not, it was all sold to, say, global. What's only surprising to me is that you've been working so hard, and that people can't hear what you're doing so well and that they believe you in those works that you've done in the last 10 years and in the weeks that this government's done in the last six years, somehow, you're just getting smaller and smaller every time, so I think you don't trust yourself or you have a disease in medicine, someone who eats a lot of it usually gets weighty...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23909	Mr. Radojevic, I give you a warning, don't talk like that about other MP groups. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23910	All right, thanks. I thought I'd say that when someone does something fruitful, it gets bigger and bigger. In this case, it doesn't seem like it. You've really done so much to make me wonder how we're going to proceed after all this work you've done? In a short time, one of my colleagues said that people appreciate words and deeds. One of our great ancestors said: "The generations of the works of judgment, which is whose they give to the world; and I hope that this time will be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23911	The word is Janko Veselinović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23912	First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the House for having finally qualified the SNS parliamentary group and allowing this assembly to work under as many normal conditions as possible. However, have you noticed gentlemen who listen to these statements, when you warned your colleague that he remained like a fish on land, so he had nothing to talk about anymore, he doesn't know what's on the agenda, well, I won't, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23913	Mr. Veselinovic, don't let me give you a warning, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23914	It wasn't my intention to, the chairman, I say, I wanted to continue my sentence. So he's not discussing the subject, he's discussing DS and that's the problem in this assembly that we're discussing about how big or small DS is, how big or small some other opposition party is. You do not refer to the mistake that your government and your ministers have made for two years, or a year and a half, to implement a very important law and that is what Mr Krstic was talking about. You cannot see that your policy will not contribute to Serbia's improvement if you talk about DS, but if you face it, we, together with you, with problems in which Serbia is located, which is high unemployment, that is inflation, that is less purchasing power, etc., that I am not saying what Mr. Ilic or his previous counterpart, Mr. Dinkic, is in what situation Serbia is in. We are ready to support now, no matter how you treat the DS, every constructive proposal, but unfortunately there are none. Today we are discussing the law to postpone the application of the law for another year, which is the theme of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23915	Replica Mr. Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23916	Mr. President, I really stopped at that moment, and I really didn't say anything offensive, so I'm surprised I stopped at that moment, and I don't really know why I got the warning, but it's less important. It doesn't matter that much. What I was talking about, it's something that's about this law, about this point of the law, and that you've never looked back on it, so it doesn't matter how they vote in this assembly, whether it goes first, second or third proposal. It is probably best to say about the fact that Mrs. Komic explained the subject, then she said I quote – that she had a deep surface in the analysis of all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23917	The next registered speaker is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23918	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, so there is no confusion, I will talk about the amendment, because the right to the replica has just been used by the deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Arsic. For SNS, this amendment, which says - Article 1, is deleted; which is not given the right to extend the deadline that literally expires today. I think it can be devastating for a large number of public enterprises that have failed to comply with this law and who have not and have not listed their property. I am instead of this amendment that says - Article 1 is deleted; I expected gratitude. I expected someone to come out and say – thank you, Mr. Minister, for allowing the government of the Republic of Serbia to have a large public enterprise in Belgrade, such as, say, City Cleanliness, get a deadline so that for another year it can respect this law and sign up its property, thank you on behalf of the Belgrade plumber and the sewerage that it can enter, thank you on behalf of other city public enterprises that can do so. No, we've received an amendment that deletes Article 1 and introduces us, the entire state, into a very devastating period. I'm going to invite you to one thing, Mr. Minister, one proposal I'm going to give you, in the next year quarter of the National Assembly, to give you a report on how many public enterprises in those three months, and for the next three months, the law has been fulfilled. Only in this way can the National Assembly have a control function in its full capacity, and I think it is good for the Ministry of Finance and for those public enterprises that may be at the city or republican level, or some municipal public enterprises, which may take all of this unseriously. I am sorry that my colleague Stefanovic is not here, not wanting to challenge him in a replica this way, but he is a vague role as the head of the parliamentary group itself. When an amendment is put into practice, it is given in a procedure not to buy time for a story, for public speaking, for dissipating political views. If an essential consideration is given and a fundamental consideration is given to a law, each amendment is given to be adopted. Now it is unclear for me which of these three amendments will Mr. Stefanovic lobby here among the MPs to pass? Is this one required to be zero or to be deleted, does this amendment, which says: “three years” change in words: “two years and three months” or this amendment, which says, “three years” change in words: “two years and six months”? What's important for that parliamentary group, what's important for that head of Parliament to single out any of these three amendments, and it can't be in all three, three months, or six months? What's the attitude? What's the big deal? What's the point? (President: I'm just asking you to come back on the subject. And so much for the obstruction of Parliament's work itself. Mr. Minister, I support making a list of public sector employees. The public sector in Serbia is too big, too big. We don't know what it is because we don't have a list of public sector employees. I'm surprised by the criticism - why do you have to make that list? Did these criticisms actually support what was so far, that individuals under the political auspices of those who had been responsible for the exercise of power in the past 12 years were taking severances from some local self-government, so they went to public enterprises, and in these same public enterprises they took severances and went to the state administration, to some ministry, and from the ministry again to some public enterprise. Of all that, Malten, business was done in Serbia. Subtraction of severance? Would that have been achieved if there was a list? No, you wouldn't. In addition to the names of that government employee, a red light would be turned on any time he applied for a job or re-taken anywhere or any severance. In this way, huge funds have been allocated that the state of Serbia no longer has to dissipate, and therefore, in full capacity, I support you, Mr. Minister, that this register of state administration employees is being made. Many questions have been raised in today's debate. Let me listen carefully and I think I have the right and obligation to ask some questions and ask them. The questions may not be to you, Mr. Minister, perhaps to those who have directed them. What public enterprises in the City of Belgrade, whose founder, the City of Belgrade, did not report the property? How many are there? Why didn't they report the property? Who is responsible for seeking responsibility for the republican public enterprises? Do the City of Belgrade and Dragan Gilas have a plan when these city public enterprises will do this job and register their assets? Two issues that are very important for our country are how much in the past 12 years has burned the money of the Serbian citizens to give guarantees to JAT, to subsidise JAT, and what are the effects of that? If you now have a problem with the strategic partnership with Etihad, what is the effect of giving money to the public sector? What was achieved that way? One far more dangerous question is whether in this way DS finds all investors coming to Serbia unfavorable? However they came from, who they were friends with, they are primarily friends of the Serbian state and friends of Serbian citizens. It has also been said that someone has returned in a year the government has returned this state and our people to a century ago. I'm going to ask one more question and one more analysis that's been made today. In 12 years, 80 billion euros entered the state of Serbia, according to some very professional estimates. For 80 billion euros in Serbia, 32,000km of highway could be made. They could have made 32 corridors 10, and we haven't finished one yet. Eight million jobs could have been opened. By the way, what's done? Unemployment rose from 13% to more than 26%. 40,000 schools could be built, 1,600 hospitals or 10,700 euros could be obtained by any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, for SNS this law is acceptable. The SNS will support this law in full capacity in the voting day, but this amendment is more than devastating and of course it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23919	National MP Gordana Komic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23920	Thank you. Thank you fellow Members of the People for the opportunity to clarify in two minutes, since there is obviously a misunderstanding in listening. I was talking about the surface using no adjective deep, because the surface can only be shallow and it is shallow in all segments of the state now, and a year ago, and four years ago and 15 years ago. If we do not understand how much damage is common to the superficial understanding of work on public affairs, we will obviously have a new problem because a kind of surface is when it insists that the new government, whoever did it, only repeats and imitates the mistakes of the previous government and always assumes its mandate for dialogue in the Serbian Parliament as a consideration of the mistakes of the previous government, but they understand that because it repeats them. It's my request when we talk about the surface, to stop it. Minister Lazar Krstic, who is here, demands the support of all of us in the business ahead of us. If we just wanted to stop talking, as we have heard here, that some government is ours, and some government is yours, if some minister were yours, and some minister is ours, it would already be a distance from the surface, which we are so prone to, because they would understand that Minister Lazar Krstic is the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that we are the parliamentary majority and parliamentary opposition of the Republic of Serbia. When the day comes that we do not talk with – you are, you are also with such a way of communication, it will be the beginning of removing the surface from what we only call a political life, and it will be the beginning of a real dialogue in the Serbian Parliament, but Minister Lazar Krstic is in need of a real dialogue on the big deal that awaits him when it comes to public finance reforms and when it comes to resolving deficits and everything that is our common problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23921	Replica, Mr Djelic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23922	Thank you, Mr. President. I think after the intervention, that finally, at the end of this debate, she would tell the whole truth. I think now we know why you've moved from six months of extension to one year. Today we heard and you confirmed that you do not intend to do, intend to, and we heard this about Belgrade to continue the election campaign, and that is why it is for a year, that you do nothing anyway, that you attack people now in Belgrade, tomorrow in Vojvodina to win some absolute power. I'm going to give you some information about Belgrade now that you've called him. I'm going to introduce our public to the fact that on 3 December 2012, it might have been sooner, but it's one of the very rare local self-government cities that did it. A task force has been formed for the census and records. That by this day 11,425 objects are diverse, from traffic and to business buildings, from everything that covers this law is recorded. That all public-communal companies in the city of Belgrade have started this job and have been facing huge problems that are political in nature over the past months. Problem with the RGZ that needs to help them. Problems with the Republic Property Directorate not responding to their request. In depth, it challenges those who recently led Belgrade, the possibility of continuing to work at full capacity, as you say, in the interest of our fellow citizens of the capital. Find out that your reckless management of public finances, as well as political retribution, seems to me, which unfortunately has adverse consequences for the citizens of the city of Belgrade and all the citizens of our country, has taken away 100m euros in the budget of the city of Belgrade, the possibility of building something further. What we've seen in the past few days, and that's the mayor's shift, and your intervention shows that this regime will only continue to deal with some pre-election tactics, rhetoric, and you don't think of doing things in the depth of the system in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23923	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23924	I'll be very brief. I thank my colleagues for their recognition, i.e. two confessions. One political, the other the one that's in practice. Mr Djelic said the city of Belgrade and public enterprises are moving into this business. Are you done? No, you're not. Would you finish if you adopted this amendment? No, you wouldn't. Who are you against? You think that this is how you fight the Serbian government, by going against yourself. Mr. Djelicu said you're on our way to this business. You didn't finish it. They're all on their way. I'm talking because it's a replica. They're all on their way, but they're not done. The second political recognition that comes from some, if I understand correctly, and I think I followed you very closely, when you said – that now we understand why it takes you a year, because tomorrow, when you take the lead in Belgrade, it will take you a year to finish all of this. This public political recognition that DS is aware that it no longer trusts the citizens of Belgrade, and that according to that mistrust in the elections it will pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23925	Replica, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23926	You know how, now it's starting to be fun. You get involved in some argument, and it seems to me that you can't even figure out which way you're headed, because we're just saying one clear thing, which is that instead of talking about what's on the agenda, you're suddenly starting to talk about Belgrade. Let me tell you, I've told you the exact figures of the things that the city of Belgrade has done, the most convincingly done in this domain. But I also told all of you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what a sparrow knows on a branch in Belgrade. Everyone knows that, which is that for months since this government was established, everything has been done to prevent the normal functioning of Belgrade's city in depth. No memos are given, the city of Belgrade is even blocked, the whole budget for some absurd figures that are post-disputed as unrealistic. You have the culmination that in the very personalised rivalry that existed, several times, between Dragan Gilas and Alexander Vukic, Belgraders have made it clear who they want as mayor, and you through one unstable coalition are unable to agree on anything other than taking down Dragan Gilas you went against their electoral will. We see what you want to do now. You are extending the deadlines in hopes that this way, in this approach to you, the citizens of Belgrade and in general the Republic of Serbia will believe. We had one law today, that was one word, but you won't be trusted by word anymore. Finally, you must do something for the citizens and the city of Belgrade. In a few days, you don't even have a technical mayor anymore. You said three days after his shift that you would tell us who would lead the city. Now we heard yesterday from the Minister of Energy that you didn't even start discussing it in your coalition. So much for being serious. I think that the way you speak today, at the end of this debate, and about the city of Belgrade, for which you have no plan, no people, no way, no proposal to the citizens of Belgrade, in this law, and we heard it from the finance minister, who was incompetent, who didn't know he was incompetent, that you didn't have a plan to implement this law in the act. Now that's reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23927	Replica, Zoran Babic. Excuse me, Mrs. Joksimovic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I didn't see you pick up first. Just sign in one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23928	A member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, of course, by the first paragraph, that the speaker can only speak about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. If we're talking about the city of Belgrade today, we'd have something to say. I, as a born Belgrade girl and someone who grew up, was very unhappy with the leadership of Belgrade by the president of your party. We can talk about it both on a personal level and on a political level. It's not a topic today. As far as I know we're discussing this today, the amendments that are pretty much collapsing, but that's the legitimate right of diversion in your party, I welcome it in some way. We're going to analyze and analyze all of your differences of thinking and thinking on such an important topic that you've had time to worry about, for at least ten years, today is October 6. So you've had time to think about it, and it's perfectly legitimate to refer to your negative work results. That's what you've been doing for ten years, referring to some previous government. It's completely legitimate. I don't have a problem with that, and that's why I'm gonna be All right. [[President:Just please don't let this go into replica, as the breach of the Rules of Procedure takes a minute.]] Let me just say one more thing and one more thing on this agenda today. The key question is, who's to blame? It's the directors of public enterprises, yes, it's guilty of both the previous and this government, but I always think that this general collective inertness that has prevailed as a consequence of what you've introduced as a system has led to these results. Sanitation's always bad, but it's better than getting everything down the water, and you've been running too long down the water. We don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23929	Since it was a replica Mr Djelic had the right to do, he could have come out of the agenda a little bit, but in principle I agree that we might consider at this point to stick to the framework of the debate on amendments. We're still on the first amendment we're discussing today. Next reported is Mr. Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23930	I'll be very brief, and I won't answer for the replica again unless we're challenged. I don't think the Belgraders said their word about the rivalry the previous speaker wanted to talk about and wanted to impute. They did not say their word because in 2007 only a few months before the 2008 elections, at the proposal of the then national investment plan, the government passed a different law on the capital and a different Law on Local Elections, where the mayor was no longer elected in direct elections, but proportionately. He changed Dragan Gilas then because he was afraid of that rivalry and that duel with Mr. Alexander Vukic. That's why that rivalry didn't show up and there wasn't one on one, only because changing the laws of Dragan Gilas from that duel escaped.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23931	Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23932	I'll be very brief, but by the thesis, since the DS has been mentioned several times. First, I agree with Mr Babic, but this morning I presented the thesis that it was necessary for this law to be completed by clearly defining before the Assembly or the competent bodies when reports of the implementation of this law will be submitted. And this extension without those parameters makes no sense. Second, our inconsistency. You have changed the deadline for which this law is extended within two days. First he was six months, then a year. Our amendments are coherent. We give you the opportunity to either bring new amendments and amendments to the law or to give a shorter period to the Government or to competent public undertakings to comply with the law. On the other hand, about the spilling of stories and the statements I hear being given in the lobby, why is Mr. Cvian apologizing "Etihada" because we're looking for an insight contract? We are looking for an insight contract, we want it to be clear what the contract agreed, what Etyhad gets and what the state of Serbia gets. What's wrong with that? When it comes to the gratitude that we should give to the government because it extended the deadline for a year, to which Mr Babic called us, we cannot thank the Government because it "remembered" that there was this law, which three days ago remembered that there was a law and extended its validity for a year. Is that what we should thank you for? Why didn't the government respect the norms of this law? It's government business. The government's job is to enforce laws. There's no moaning, Mr. Granny. There's no moaning, Mr. Cross. You need to enforce the law, and you need to sanction all those who did not comply with the law, whether they were at a republican level, at a local level, even if it concerns the individual local self-governments in which we were in power. (President: Time. The law is equal to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23933	Replica, Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23934	Dear Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not disputed that in Serbia, the Law on Free Access to Public Information is in force, and Europe has repeatedly praised us for its working with the Commissioner for Public Information, Mr Rodoljub Sabic, on a number of occasions, none of this is disputed. It is not disputed whether a contract or any other legal act relating to co-operation with the United Arab Emirates or concerning co-operation with any other foreign investor who, thank God, has been growing more and more lately. But it is very controversial when in the Assembly as deputy head of the parliamentary group of the largest opposition party, a foreign investor is called someone there by a private family from the Emirates. It's an insult. It is a direct insult to foreign investors who are not obliged to suffer our political bickering here in the National Assembly. With every foreign investor who has come well-intentioned to Serbia to invest his resources, to make investments, to create new jobs, to deal with serious jobs, to do the basic task, I thank the MPs of my parliamentary group for speaking as I speak, to thank all foreign investors, and we believe that we should all treat them with due respect. We should leave our political struggles behind. If it is necessary to fight with each other, come on, even though it is not nice, but we certainly must not insult foreign investors, and that just happened, in my deep conviction, and we can read the minutes ago, here in the National Assembly, when the speech was given by the deputy head of the parliamentary group of the largest opposition party in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23935	We're moving on to the next amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does Mr. Milivojevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23936	If you had given the replica of Mr. National Assembly President Janko Veselinović, I might have given up. This is how I will be obliged to say something about my amendment, especially because of the lack of legislative activity by the parliamentary majority that obstructs parliament's work. So I have submitted this amendment with the intention of extending the validity of this law by six months. Do you know, Mr. Cross, why I've been looking for those six months? Because an extraordinary parliamentary election will be held in Serbia in six months. If you don't trust me, trust your party vote that says everything is nothing until Vukic is prime minister. Look at you from the SPS, look closely, if you really think you can have a Prime Minister with 20 MPs, you're wrong. Since the time for holding these choices is falling somehow at the time, I think some new government will pass some law that will solve this field in a proper way. When it comes to my amendment, I do not expect support from you, because you do not understand how an MP can submit the amendment and how three MPs from the same parliamentary group can submit three different amendments. I'll explain. We're called the Democratic Party. We don't have a dad, a Pharaoh, a Emperor, whose public company "Postmarks" prepares a stamp with a postman. We have the president of the DS. But as a member of the DS, I am a swimmer, not the president of the Water polo Union, but like Gordana Komic, I also drowned in shallowness today. I heard here that the topic is the city of Belgrade and whether the public enterprises of the city of Belgrade have done what they should do with the property of public enterprises. I understand your complex from Belgrade, now that you have an unsustainable desire for even greater power, and especially with greater property, finally overcame, when you have been given the fragile moral brakes when it comes to privileges stemming from the exercise of power in your own way and when you see the city of Belgrade as property, I must remind you that there is no shame in losing to Dragan Gilas the mayor's election. It's like I ran against Hussein Bolt. Alexander Vukic needs to be happy that he ran with Dragan Gilas and lost, to write to him in his biography. Twice - twice. It's no shame. Now, while you are preparing candidates for the city council members, Raku Radovica, Bija, Bulidžu, I hear that Sojic has cancelled, he is still choosing society, I see that the mayor of Belgrade has also called and that you are in pain with the mayor's candidate, she has just heard from herself, and I see that you are in pain with public enterprises in Belgrade. I have to tell you, don't worry so much. No public company in Belgrade has sold graves twice. That's where people treat this property domestically. Dragan Gilas is the host of man. When you honor us that we've spent 12 years in the DS and we've squandered the property into nothing, I have to ask you who squandered KIM's assets in just two years of power, when you've come up with the heroism of Serbian regiments from the First Balkan, Second Balkan and First World War, why are you now selling property in Vojvodina? Haven't you had enough KIM? Do you need any more? Was there anything wrong with you? Are you selling out your grandfather's place? Don't talk to us like that. It may mean for you that we have done nothing by abolishing visas, returning Serbia to the world, restoring its reputation and dignity. Our president never grind in the Lambs, neither as party president nor as president of Serbia. And this man here, Lazar, isn't mine and your finance minister, he's more mine than yours, I wish him more well with an amendment like this than you, I want Serbia and him and public enterprises... (President: I just ask you not to say that someone less wants Serbia well, because it can be offensive. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry if I offended someone with that. Anyone who wants Serbia well remembered Serbian citizens in 1999 and 2000. When we talk about what's gonna stay behind, I need to tell you a few things. You obviously have a problem for every solution this man has. And to you for the end, Mr. Cross, I'll tell you something. Read the memoirs of Laza Pachu, the best finance minister Serbia has ever had, your denominator. When King Peter asked him for a loan of 200,000 dinars, he sent his secretary and asked for a secretary's salary in advance. You know what Laza Pachu said - I don't give. They were astounded, don't you think? Behold, first, the king may die, and Laza will have to return; second, the king may abdicate, and Lazar will have to return again; third, the government will fall, and Laza will have to return again. Don't let the next day be your fault, to accuse you of being inexperienced and that Laza must repay the debts of the SNS. Please take care of yourself. If they won't defend you, I will defend you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23937	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the previous amendment four times, but thanks to the dynamic discussion, here I finally gained the right to the next amendment. So yesterday was October 5th. Thirteen years. The day that 70% of the citizens of this country invested enormous energy, believing that the forms of property at the time, and being state, social, public, cooperative, would belong to the people, that naturally created resources would be public property, private property, cooperative property, action property. So, that there will be no transition losers, but that thanks to this enormous energy, which they have invested in political change and economic change, they will be better off, that everyone will be better off, not just for some. That was 13 years ago. An expert came to the post of First Finance Minister. I remember it well, a non-partisan personality. So, I don't think anyone's gonna answer the line now, since I'm talking about experts, I'm not talking about party members. At that time, I believed that public property would be preserved, that it would be carefully privatized with society, that it would not be like a sherpa full of clams where someone would take it, catch what was good, and the empty shell would go back, or take the firm, suck out all the capital for itself and bring back the empty company to the state to be state property, possibly public property. There were amendments to delete this member. Most likely, those who submitted it wanted that public property to disappear, that is, that the remains of public property disappear. I wouldn't be surprised if the proposed amendment belonged to the party's president, because he didn't make it all out of public property, especially in the city of Belgrade, and for God's sakes in this country, to cross over, and not his partners, who, I say, moved as satellites around the former president of the Republic of Serbia. A huge capital, a huge property, including a public one, has disappeared. Today on my surprise, I'm listening here to the law doctors, professors, who talk about private families. I don't understand. When a law doctor says, a law professor, that there's a private family, I don't know what other people are like. I don't understand if there are any parties, etc. It's incomprehensible to me at all, so I'm concerned about the knowledge of students, or future lawyers, who are going to be trained by teachers like this. I have listened patiently to everything and everything, but I have not been able to conclude anything useful, except that we are guilty and responsible that the rest of the public property is not registered until today, no matter what various coalitions exist today, a diverse coalition in cities. Therefore, it is not the fault of any party, nor of any government, the blame is general and should be extended by one year in order for the remains of the public property to be entered. Also, I have to say, the ones who resent us the most today, so-called. Experts who let their beards know less now talk about privatisation here, about privatisation that could be called maltenes by grabbing, about privatization of state, social, public property. So, a lot of things have been poured into the mattresses of ex-functioners. I'd like the finance minister to run a register of public administration employees, perform a register of public property that has disappeared, social and state property, which has disappeared since 2000-20013. Also, to build a register, which will be very difficult, which will cover property, most likely robbed, owned by former officials from 1990 to today, and which, as a public, state-run transfer to private, where partner societies who called themselves governments, and public, state-owned and social property, have turned into mattresses and are giving us a lecture today. I'd like to hear that. As for the state country, which someone has proposed to register as a public property, it cannot be. I suggest that the Minister sell state land, sell to farmers for 20 years, to those who have less than 20 hectares, that those funds that will raise 20 years use as credit returns. That way they'll get more. First, it will prevent foreigners from buying such a land later. Secondly, it will strengthen agricultural holdings. Third, they will win a war in which they can withdraw a three-billion-dollar loan, which they need to invest in agriculture, the processing industry, in the development of energy based on green mass and bio mass, based on the development of the village itself, so that they can start the village, to create a processing industry, to create competition for monopolies, to get the opportunity to raise up to the peasants the processing industry to which they will manage, to pay off those loans, and to start a domestic investment cycle, not to do what the former government did, not to do and sell anything else that can be sold. So, I'm surprised by the amount of criticism, not that three amendments were proposed, but I'm surprised by the criticism of those who, instead of serving the state, served the state instead of sharing good and evil with the people, left themselves good and left the people evil. It's an absolute surprise to me today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23939	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23940	Dear Chairman, I'm not going to enter any controversy below the level of this assembly, but I'm going to answer a few claims. First, it is very good to know whether the Republic of Serbia has concluded a contract with a private company of a family or with the state of Arab Emirates. I'll be very happy if we get that answer. The Democratic Party was not one moment against the Etyhad contract. So we were very constructive. We asked for a prenup, we got it. We got a pre-contract, we got a promise that we'd get a contract when he's done. We, at this point, don't even know if the contract is concluded, or what the terms of that contract are. We're looking for that contract to see who it's closed with, when it's concluded and under what conditions. Then we'll say whether we support it or not. We would not want this privatisation to be a 25 disputed privatisation in Serbia. Twenty-four were created in a period when DS was out of power, and this 25 could be controversial, unless we know in advance what it's all about. And for those who are interested in the norms of this law, if today this law had exhausted its validity, that is, if sanctions had taken effect, the property of these public enterprises would have become state property. It's a sanction for public enterprises. You wouldn't become private property. The whole law needs to be read. So, it's not enough... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... apriori to attack what the opposition claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23941	Mr. Risticevic, are you answering for the replica? You have no basis, no mention. By hurting the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23942	Articles 103, 104, 105, 106. So my discussion was misread and I had the right to reply, but I wanted to give up the replica because there's nothing there, it's not worth replicating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23943	To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23944	You see, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's obvious the government didn't do its job. The government is responsible to the National Assembly for law enforcement. Mr. President, I'm just asking you to calm down some colleagues. So the government didn't do its job because the public property laws didn't do it. The government was obliged to do so, and the authority to monitor this job had had the Ministry of Finance, because it carried out the tasks of the state administration relating to property and other real-law relations and to analyse the effects of the regulations. This job was obviously not done by the Ministry of Finance or at least we have no information that it did, since, despite insisting on telling us what the government had concluded on the basis of the State of Immobility report, which the Property Directorate was required by 31 May at the latest to deliver to the Government for the previous year. The finance ministry did not do its part of the job, and then it intervened in the direct jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, as the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration performs the tasks of the state administration concerning the preparation of regulations in the area of property and other real-law relations. It's obvious that those who need to do their job don't do their job, and they're trying to do someone else's work. Let's agree that everyone is doing their job, especially if this government has proposed such a distinction of jurisdiction. If there's a need for a different one, let's do it. I believe that by adopting the amendment, the bill will be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23945	Mr. Djelic, one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23946	Thank you. In the end, it's obvious you won't accept the DS amendments. The Democratic Party will not support this law. This law is one of those system laws for which it would be better if we had all passed it much earlier, but yet there was a majority at some point to open up and in one transparent legal way close Pandora's box of public property and to know what it should belong to and to put things in the right hands and to train public enterprises, to be what they're called, which is that they're public and at the same time companies that have to have and property to be. You can't get great managers unless you give them tools to be. A good manager, unpartial, wants to be able to manage it that way. Unfortunately, the extension of this deadline, as we have seen through this discussion, is of a political nature. Things are being delayed... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to continue to be in an indemnem, and to deal first and foremost with daily politics, and not with serious work. I am afraid that we will not improve this path, in any way, or work in the public sector, or the lives of our citizens. You don't have our support on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-06-0.u23947	Does the minister want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Sunday, October 6, 2013, starting at 14.10 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm setting a 10-minute break and we're approaching the vote. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Property Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Property, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 14, the abstentions - there are no, no five votes, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – five, abstention - two, no 128 voted, of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, v – seven, abstention - one, did not vote 129 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, v – 10, abstention - one, did not vote 126, of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The decision of the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of the day of its publication. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – 11, abstention - one, did not vote 10, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Property, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 15 abstentions - there are no, no five votes, of a total of 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Public Property. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 4 October 2013, at 11 o'clock and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – five abstentions - no, 129 of the total attendance of 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 4 October 2013, at 11 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to members 27 and 167 paragraphs 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against four abstentions, voted 136 out of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Milan Lapcevic, at a session on 4 October 2013, at 14 hours and five minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mira Petrovic, at a session on 4 October 2013, at 17 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 123 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of and decision-making of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you.
