ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11440	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287(2), The Rules of Procedure, before moving to a further debate, shall have the right to request information and explanations during this session of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11441	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, my question today is addressed to the Ministry of Energy, or the Minister of Energy. In the last few years, we have witnessed the endless spending of funds at the Kolubara mining base. One of the types of this dedicated use is the payment of fees for shift work to employees, based on court rulings. By virtue of the Labour Act, Article 108(1), paragraph 1 is paid by 26% of the basic income. Since Kolubara did not respect the Labour Contract Act in previous years, a large number of workers, therefore, employees in Kolubara sued Kolubara and got court rulings very quickly. All of this involved an army of lawyers who were the least said or the only or biggest profites in this whole story. There's a system that's been developed, where court proceedings end very quickly. Kolubara is very effective in paying these fees for shift work and the system is operating impeccably. Can I ask you a little silence, so we don't ask questions here so you don't hear each other? Thank you. Lawyers representing workers take between 30% and 50% of what Kolubara pays the workers. The only and fundamental losers in all of this are Serbian citizens, as Kolubara pays and learns from the lawsuits. It pays interest, court fees, taxes, so it doubles, and even triples everything Kolubara gives, and it could avoid being able to respect the Labour Act in time and pay off as the law requires. Finally, on January 21st 2013, the lawsuit was charged by three thousand 554 workers from kopov. The net costs plus interest paid by Kolubara amounted to a billion 788 million 560 thousand dinars, 355 dinars. I must remind you and remind the public that this is only part of those who have charged their claims. This is just one part of the Kolubar mining base system. Prior to them, 800 workers employed in processing and droughts also charged their claims from Kolubara, and today the exact number of lawsuits that were filed, and above all they filed employees at the thermal power plant. What I want to point out at this point is that in all of this, however it may seem, workers in all of this are the smallest winners. If there was a monthly fee paid, workers would be much more satisfied. They'd get what's coming to them with their basic earnings. This way, when they charged their claims based on court rulings, between 30% and 50% of what they got to the lawyers. That's what I said from the beginning, that in the whole story, the biggest profiteers were lawyers representing the Kolubara workers, and the workers weren't even winners. I ask the question when will the problem of change-of-work fees be introduced into legal frameworks and thus prevent the accidental spending of money on all Serbian citizens, but also huge individual wealth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11442	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11443	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will use my time to ask two questions. My first question is to ask Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. When we adopted the Law on the Spatial Plan in the term of the last government, I submitted an amendment allowing for reconstruction to enter into the law, i.e. construction of the road arm from Vrbasa via Kula, Somboro to the Croatian and Hungarian borders, in a spatial plan with priority from 2010 to 2020, with a recommendation to start the process in 2014. We're all talking about investments, both past and past, and this government and we all know very well that without road infrastructure it's impossible to acquire some investments. I'm saying this for one simple reason why this problem is directly connected to over half a million people, and indirectly maybe that much. My question is very clear – when will the construction start? The reconstruction of this route? My second question is to ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic. We have said several times, our parliamentary group, that it supports the efforts this government and state makes in the process of fighting corruption and crime. It was no problem for us to support those who are perhaps the most ideologically distant, especially when it comes to Mr Dacic, and to say that one of the better ministers may have been the best in the past government, but the information we have recently received through the media creates confusion with both citizens and with our MPs. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister to come out with the names of the people who are responsible for the drug money bought by the Vojvodina firm as if they were buying fruit and vegetables at the market, that everyone knew about it, but that no one reacted. What's even more disappointing to all of us in Vojvodina is that it's mostly agricultural combinations, with which the collapse collapsed and the entire villages. Also, it is a disappointment for those of us living in Vojvodina that those who were later to deal with the recovery of these agricultural combinations, not only did they not recover them, but they were, as was Somboro, i.e. "Gakova" and "Santic" continued with suspicious business and loans from the Development Bank, where a large amount of cash was created that came in business with a young cooperative from Novi Sad. I think this, in addition to the artificial fertilizer case, is quite enough reason for the MUP to make concrete moves when it comes to fighting crime and corruption in Somboro. My question, to be absolutely accurate, is – what is the state willing to do to make these once successful, combined recoverys? Is she ready to make it clear who these people have been destroying these agricultural combinations for years? That way, to save the existence of the people who stayed to live in those villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11444	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11445	Thank you. One proverb says, "It's not worth whispering about, it's not worth winking at." These proverbs are a little bit, a little bit, so I remember because my attempts to make certain subjects, suggestions, the needs of this people known to those responsible, give no result, but I am a persistent man and I don't give up easily. I spoke three years ago, then Verica Kalanovic was headed by the National Investment Programme, that the road from the village of Barija to Ruglica in the length of 25km, he was located in the administrative border zone with Kosovo, near there, the municipality of Lebana, Leskovac and at that area, at 1,000 metres above sea level, I was convinced, I recorded and showed the documents, could start producing small red fruit, and that this world, the poor world, was so poor, that it had relaxed the end, could return to life, etc. I called Mr. Ljubisha Dikovic, Chief of Staff, and he sent a man from engineering. They are ready to work on building that road, under contract to compensate the military for fuel, depreciation, machinery, etc. I ask the question, I don't know who's in charge of this, is it Mr. Velja Ilic, or whoever, will this year's 2013 construction of the Barija road – Oruglica? That's a big profit. The previous MP spoke of the same good path to the border with Croatia. Remember, the road is the key to opening one area and becoming active. Without the road, he can't get the truck, he can't bring the fertilizer, he can't load that raspberries, he can't bring the blackberry, he can't bring the fish and the other vegetables, which could be in thousands of tons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11446	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Milekić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11447	Dear colleagues, I will ask two questions. First of all, the first question of the Ministry of Culture and Information, which refers to the problem of so-called "the Ministry of Culture and Information". National pensions. First of all, I'd like to clarify the concept of national pensions, which is being misused in the press, and that's how it starts to dissipate in the people. Actually, national pensions don't exist. There is a national recognition for a top-notch contribution to culture. This recognition is cashed in the amount of 50,000 dinars, which is allocated to the already realised pension that the artist receives through the PIO Fund. This is not a social category that was founded to take care of artists with poor incomes, although I honestly believe that the idea came from exactly this kind of situation. When we think only of the fate of one Steve Grigon or Ljuba Tadic, who ended their lives in extreme poverty, without being able to provide themselves with food and medicine. What I know reliably, is that it is originally imagined that artists who have owed their people perhaps from someone's perspective and much more than athletes who win Olympic medals can in a similar way acquire material benefits. Among the winners of this confession are artists who have truly marked our country for all time. These are people like writers Mira Alečković, Mome Kapor, Dobrice Eric, Milorad Pavić, actors Peter Kralj, Olivera and Rade Markovic, Mira Stupice, Ružice Sokić, opera singers Biserka Cvejic, Radmila Bakočević, Zivana Saramandić and many others. Almost every year, identical problems arise over the award of these recognitions. Political and other fan clans, pressures, etc. appear. Especially disputed categories of music interpreters, believed to have created careers in not exactly artistic conditions, while earning fabulous money, as well as architects who are not an art category. The worst option is the one that's been going through the press and the public lately, and that's to completely end this confession. My question is, will the Ministry better and more precisely define the criteria by which the associations themselves will be able to run for their candidates, and the commission will have no problem making a decision on who will be the winner of this recognition? The second question I ask the Ministry of Finance is about the cinema budget, which is zero dinar this year. Everyone agrees that the film is one of the art categories that can best represent our country in the world. Everyone agrees that films are extremely successful at numerous world festivals. I would like to get an answer – how will this problem be solved and can we expect that the state will still allow us to have at least some premiere of home film this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11448	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11449	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, my question is addressed to the Prime Minister and concerns Serbia and Croatia's economic relations. Relations between these two countries are burdened by a difficult past, conflict and blood, but most of the problems that arise from an excess of similarity. These relations should lead to a level of civil decency, in the way that Germany and France or Austria and Italy have done, especially if you take into account the fact that we will mostly be neighbours and neighbours and neighbours. In that sense, these relations are welcome also because of Croatians living in Serbia, because of the rest of the Serbian people living in Croatia, because of those mixed marriages, because of those refugees here who continue to see Croatia as their homeland, intend to return there, if for nothing else, at least to lie next to their parents. Will your relationship ever be brought to that sense of decency that I was talking about? If you consider that the Tobacco Industry exports to Serbia 62m euros, and the Duvan industry exports to Croatia one million euros, 62:1. In doing so, the tobacco industry is no bigger than the tobacco industry, on the contrary. Will these relations ever be brought into order if a certain Todorovic in Serbia has about 700 small shops, eight shopping malls, several thousand hectares of the most quality Vojvodina country and employs about 7,000 employees? If you add other Croatian wholesalers to this, you come up with one fascinating data. Interested – does Serbia have its Todorovic in Croatia? Does Serbia have an idea in Croatia? I'm also interested in rhetorical – what do you think, dear friends, where does the profits from these shops go? Is he staying in Lykovec and Stalac, in Lappo, Turkey, Sombor and Indjia, or is he going to the town of Sesveta? Will your relationship ever be in order, if it is known that thousands of tons of duchy sugar tails were exported to Croatia this year? By some miracle, the sugar shop in Sremska Mitrovica, where I come from, screams empty. In another miracle, however, she did not enter the three euros for which sugars were bought in Serbia. From these Croatian sugars, in Serbia, Croatian sugar and chocolates return to shelves and shelves. If you take the logic of economic impetuousness and if this continues, one day all the sugar tails from Vojvodina will go to Croatia, and all the Croatian shelves in Croatian shopping malls in Serbia will be filled with only Croatian chocolates and Croatian sugars. Will your relationship ever be in order, if you consider the fact that Tashmajdan, thank God, is soon renewed, that beautiful, precious, all the dear Tashmajdan we all watched a concert or some sporting event, and is restored, behold, by a miracle, by a brother marble? It would be no wonder that the marble is not Bosniak and that there are currently 11 quarrys in Serbia that produce more quality and better marble than the Brač, example, Arangelovac or Zlatibor. It would be all right if there wasn't this supreme cynicism in the fact that Tashmajdan, you won't believe it, means in Turkish it's small stones, ore stones. Dear friends, in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, on the "Exit" or in Guca, we will never host as many Croatian tourists, as many Serbian tourists will visit Dubrovnik or Rovinj, and that is how it should be, especially if you consider that they do not need cash there now, it is waiting for them there. Likewise, I suppose the prime minister and government of this country can insist that at least the same amount of Radovanovic, Kovacevic, Zivanovic or Kiš wines as we have here as Croatian equivalents can be found on the shelves of Croatian shops and shops. I also see no reason why the Serbian government and the Serbian prime minister do not insist that the equal amount of Vegeta be found on Serbian shelves, as well as on Cena's Croatian spices. If they were bought there, I wouldn't talk about it, because it's not about the economy, it's about the state of consciousness. I'll leave the question of singers and singers and singers and singers for another time. (President: Time. ) My rectorial question for the prime minister of this country is – can a collective frustration be avoided from this economic imperative? Is it possible, based on frustration, to create a relationship between us and the Croats? One more thing that's no longer rectoral... (President: Please, Mr Kovacevic, five and a half minutes. Give me the 15 seconds I've been silent about trying to reach you and the Minister's ladies when you talked to me, give it to me. So, what will the Serbian government do to change such a imbalance, so that it no longer exists. Finally, dear Mr. President, Croatia is not Germany, at least a little longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11450	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11451	Thank you, Chairman. As you can see, we gave the quorum to begin the session this morning. I hope that the ruling majority, in the coming period, will be able to secure a quorum for the start of the session, not for us, but for the citizens of Serbia. The first question would concern campaigns to abolish the AP Vojvodina, or its powers. They're going from two directions. One is institutional, the other is non-institutional. This institutional was initiated by the adoption of the Law on the Budgetary System in which, past the Constitution, it was prescribed that Vojvodina belonged to less than 7% guaranteed by the Constitution. This continues with the introduction into a number of laws of provisions restricting or devising the autonomy of various norms requiring prior or subsequent consent to the actions of the AP Vojvodina Authority. These days we had an example of the laws on agriculture and rural development, but also of all the days where such decisions could have been incorporated from the government's entry into office. This resulted in the encouragement of all those who would limit and destroy autonomy, which was based on the Constitution, in other ways. So we have these days, I think, a very loud request, spoken from the mouth of certain historians, for the abolition of the AP Vojvodina -- mentioning historian Antic, the appearance of extremist groups. These days, Novi Sad is covered with posters for the abolition of the AP Vojvodina, and I could continue to list what seems to be done since the entry of this government and the President of the Republic into office, in order to create an atmosphere in which it is possible to do so. That is why I ask the Government and the President of the Republic of Serbia – what will it do to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to stop this campaign? The second question concerns the populations of refugees, exiled and displaced. Families and victims of the '90s wars were very upset by the UN court's verdicts, which freed those who bear the main responsibility for all the victims that occurred in the areas where the Serb victims were. It offended the families of Serb victims, but also all other families who had suffered in this war. Two months ago, there was a protest walk, right, President of the Assembly? You received a delegation of people who were on the protest walk and promised to organise a thematic session to discuss the topic soon. It's been two months, and there's no more talking about it. I ask you, was it just a continuation of the election campaign? Was that closing your eyes to the facts that were happening? The question to the government and to the president of the Republic is – what do the rights of Serbs in Croatia, the rights of Serbs in the Federation of BiH and other places where people had to avoid, what seems to raise these rights to the level of protection of the Serbian state? What did the Minister, or Prime Minister Dacic, say, in a conversation with his colleague Milanovic on the subject, about the return of apartments, houses, pensions, the discovery of missing persons, etc.? What does the president of the Republic, who has not scheduled a council for Serbs outside Serbia since his term of office, even though he was obliged? Please let us get these answers as soon as possible, so that we know whether what you said in the election campaign is something you'll be doing in practice, because you've got power, or we can't expect anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11452	I am obliged to tell you about your question about a session that will be dedicated to these subjects. That session will be soon. I am consulting with the heads of Parliament, since we want to make a serious consensus on this topic. As soon as I'm done, I'll schedule a session, not wanting it to be something that will only be formal, but which will essentially contribute to people who are originating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia who are being exiled, having some benefit from what we're going to bring. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, responds for the word we continue to work. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11453	Thank you, Mr. President. You know exactly what Article 128 means. – cards in the system. Yesterday we had a session of the Administrative Committee where a working group was formed to write a code of conduct for Members in the Serbian Parliament, and what MPs of the ruling coalition insist on violating is the Rules of Procedure of this assembly, or cards that are in the system and if they are not in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11454	As far as I can tell, it's not just the MPs of the ruling coalition. I completely agree with you, all MPs who are out of the O.R. should carry their cards with them and not have to be cards in the system. I ask the service that all the cards that exist in the system and the MPs are not in their seats, these cards are taken out. I warn all the People's Messengers to carry them with them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when they come out of the room not to leave them in the O.R. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Miroslav Petkovic, Sasa Dujovic, Slobodan Jeremic and Miletic Mihajlovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the sitting to be attended by the representatives of Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, at the presence of Mirko Grubjesic and Hranislav Stojković, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Zoran Ibrović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Toni Petrović adviser at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the third item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AIR PROTECTION LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Teodora Vlahovic, Gordana Komic, Srdjan Mikovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as from the Government on Amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The first amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with a correction is in line with the constitutional and legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The environmental protection committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11455	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has submitted several amendments. I noticed on the board that they were trying to explain to me that some of these amendments are being understood, that the text implies itself, but I'm still going to talk about it, and I'm going to tell you why we've been putting up with this guy's amendments. There will be several amendments that give responsibility to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, i.e. energy, development and environmental protection. Because that jurisdiction is nowhere to be seen and somehow untraceable. In Article 2..................................................................................................... The former member of the 41st Old Law provides the Government with the authority to prescribe emission limit values for polluting substances into the air, to prescribe the method, procedure and methodology for measuring emissions of polluting matter, to prescribe criteria for establishing measurement sites, the evaluation process for emission measurement results, the content of the report on emissions measurements carried out, and how to deliver and the deadlines for setting emission data. When you look at this, it's very important for our country and so far we've stuck to mostly international standards about it that we obviously couldn't achieve so easily and so easily. It's okay when you think it's of national importance for the government to take responsibility and make decisions like this, but I keep wondering – somehow I lost the ministry. I know the ministry is going to give a report on this and a recommendation to the government, but yesterday we had a chance to see the Agricultural Subsidy Act where the reverse process took place. There is what has so far been the government's authority transferred to the minister to decide for himself and that is also of national importance. Agriculture, rural development, subsidies in the area are very important for this country. Somehow something appears to me that I could characterise – what the ministry is for years, the minister has been given the government the right to decide on some very important matters for the state. I guess this ministry is underage, it hasn't reached maturity, and it can't decide. I don't agree with that, and that's what I was talking about last fall when the Environmental Protection Fund was abolished. Even then, the ministry didn't ask. If it had been asked, it certainly wouldn't have reacted that way. It's okay, there were abuses no one defends. If there were, you know what services are involved in abuse, but the fund had to stay. So it happened that a minister who wasn't in charge of this took over the Ministry of Environmental Protection. How? Simple. He's taken over funds that are pretty big. From taxis to motor vehicles alone, 1.35 billion dinars were collected. That's a big number. He took over funds from that fund, and the fund was created by paying the polluter still continuing to pay, but it is not decided by the environment ministry. Why doesn't he decide? A question for the government. That's in favor of what I just said. These funds are shared on the spoon. Imagine a serious country that needs to get close to the EU, saying you are in a hurry to the EU, one third of all the documents that need to be agreed on are from the field of environmental protection. It will take great care to protect the environment when it is received by the EU. No one's talking about it. The state has defined the ministry's budget as 0.2% of the total budget. That's enough talking. It says someone else decides what the priorities of this ministry are and I really can't keep my mouth shut about it. At least let it be seen in my amendment that I am asking for the Minister of Environment to stand somewhere even if he proposes what the Government should adopt. I think this is a significant area. I think we should fight for this area all together, and you from the ministry and us from this side. It doesn't matter if we're from the government or the opposition. We know the importance of all of this, especially now that the consequences of the fund being unable to work and paying off funds, say the Environmental Protection Agency and some other agencies dealing with monitoring. It's very important to us and I'll talk about it later. The Democratic Party of Serbia and I insisted that the environment minister be visible in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11456	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11457	I don't think there are any full-time and underage ministers and ministries in the government. We're all members of the government. The responsibility of the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection is laid down by the Ministry Act. You know that. What the Government does with the Government Act. It's precisely because of the importance of changing and supplementing the Law on Air Protection and everything that's been done in the environment, which you've potentiald as very significant, I'm always in favor of a broader consensus. I'm always up for the government to get behind certain decisions. After all, this is the authority of the government itself. When you mentioned priorities and if you'd set other priorities, I wouldn't agree with you there. Priorities as a final decision are made by the government, but on a proposal from the restoring ministry. In this case, it's the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Unfortunately, this amendment, and there will be similar things later, is precisely the responsibility of the ministry and the government. Once again, I'm always behind all the important decisions of the entire government and of course it's going to the ministry's proposal, but the agreement is unanimous on the government itself. It's certainly a broader consensus.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11458	Replica, Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11459	Thank you, Madam Minister. Of course, I used metaphors when I was talking about seniors and minors, although it's no problem for us women to be underage longer than we should be, but I was talking about metaphors and when I was talking about who sets priorities. The metaphor is, but the truth is, whoever has the money sets priorities. If you get 0.2% of your budget, you can set priorities in a very tight circle. That's what I was talking about. That was metaphorical, but I think we understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11460	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11461	I just have to remind you, when you mention these priorities, that the conclusion of the previous government in March 2012 is that there are no own revenues, because these are budget revenues. So it's March of 2012. Of course, there are certain problems and we can't make ourselves crazy and say that there's no problem, about the Environmental Protection Fund and everything that's waiting for payment. That's where we're now trying to find a way and modality to solve it. That's what's most important to me in the area of the environment and what I'm doing most right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11462	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11463	Don't get me wrong. I'm not any lawyer of the former government or the former minister. I can't think of that. Everyone does what they do, and here I was an MP to the opposition and spoke very publicly about what I think of his projects. I have no intention of defending all this. I'm talking about what you're in today. I'm done, and I think we're done as a state, with the former government. Let's see what's a step forward. If it's a step forward, I want you to see very well the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I want you to see what it's doing, I want you to see what it is that we, as a state, define.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11464	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Environment Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11465	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, fellow Members and colleagues, we have a few problems here. The most obvious problem with this amendment is air quality control, but all the positive and all the good that the distinguished minister has done for the past few months has been limited by the self-proclaimed cashier abolishing environmental taxes as the original incomes of local self-government. We have to stress here that local self-government has remained deprived of environmental taxes and fees and that this is now going into the common budget and there is no sign of it coming in, and especially no sign of it coming out. I stress that under the Environmental Protection Act, these are exclusively dedicated means and instead of dividing 60, 40 to local self-government, now someone at the Ministry of Finance is spending those 100% of the funds on anyone's decisions, even if it's the government's decision. It's an accidental spending of funds and we are here urging the Minister to return his money to his ministry and have that money properly. Don't, after all, have more than half of the government fought for some kind of decentralisation and now you want to ask local self-government how they spend 40%. You didn't do it, you cut them 40%. I remind you that environmental taxes are collected in local self-government, most of it, as a compensation for pollution. Local self-governments Obrenovac, Lazarec, Pančevo, Smederevo, Povorec, Kostolac have the right to ask you how you spend those 60%. Not you, ma'am, but the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11466	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11467	I couldn't agree more. They should always ask, as we ask municipalities how they spent funds in the previous period. As far as local self-government is concerned, what you mentioned, I must immediately tell you that the money will be paid. By March 31st this year, we're getting reports from large contaminants, followed by distributions just in the range that you said 60-40. So, in order not to further discuss it, it will certainly be settled. The municipalities must have money, though they now have money. Every day we get certain requirements, we give approvals, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11468	The word has a National MP Ivan Karic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11469	Thank you. What you said makes me very happy, but then what does the Law on Local Self-Government mean that it abolished the fees as the original incomes of local self-government. This means that, in your opinion, you will transfer these funds and there is no legal basis based on which local self-government, first of all, those who have the largest contaminants on their territory, and that is, I repeat, Obrenovac, Lazarjevac, Pogorjevac, Kostolac, Smederevo, Bor, Panchevo... Are their environmental projects condemned to non-financing or will Mr. Minister of Cass decide which project will be financed and which one won't? We'll have the Old Mountain destroyed, as it was destroyed, so instead of going to winter on the Old Mountain, we'll go to Switzerland. What are we going to do with those kids who can't get out of Obrenovac, Lazarets, Firefighter, Pancheva, but stay trapped because someone took their local environmental taxes. By law on local self-government, you abolished environmental taxes. I apologize again, for respecting your work and your efforts. When I say you, I don't mean you personally. Soon the request will be found by local self-government, as consultations have begun, regardless of the political color. As you know the quality of the air, the quality of the water, the quality of the land does not know whether we are green, we are green, but whether we are green, blue, yellow, red, air, water has no color and because of that, it is important, first of all, to think about our children how we will protect them and how we will reduce the effects of pollution. No one in Belgrade who flies a plane to Switzerland or Singapore can decide how to spend money in Obrenovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11470	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11471	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues, as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, today we have amendments relating to the air protection law. The most important thing to say is that in these amendments, which the opposition put forward in its proposal, is an attempt to replace them, to talk more about the Environment Fund, than about the very way the ruling coalition led the legislation, such as the strategy for air protection and the national programme to reduce air pollution emissions. Their obligation was to bring these strategic documents by June 2011, or by the end of the term of office of Mr Cvetkovic. That is why today we have a bill that is in place, as well as amendments that we are discussing. It is an attempt to replace the issues in terms of amendments relating to a specific law, cost-use and budget availability, i.e. those relating to the Environment Fund. As time goes by, believe me, I was the first supporter not to shut down that fund. Since I see, to your heart, 1,300 contracts waiting for payment, whose debts the government has taken over, I can now suggest that Mladjan Dinkic may have been right when he shut down that fund. It is obvious that the funds leaving the Republic of Serbia's budget did not know where they were. I'll back it up with one fact. There is one project of an international organisation that has located 30 municipalities, based on the presentation of a previous colleague I speak, which is about reviewing, or monitoring of the dedicated spending of funds from environmental funds of municipalities and cities. So today, we can talk about that the previous set, which is now in opposition, has manipulated an entire area, unfortunately the entire professional public who supports this topic, so when you mention ecologicality, the environment, immediately think about some manipulation, corruption. Believe me, more and more as time passes, as projects are revealed, there are elements for such a claim. We're all sorry about that, and we all need to fight, get out of here clean with what's healthy and how it's supposed to be financed by projects to make it look. After all, you have funding in the EU for environmental projects 0.5% of the total budget. Just because the budget split put in 0.2% for the Ministry of Environment alone doesn't mean that the environment will only be financed in that part. There are projects that are within the framework of energy, also covering the environment. Excuse me, please, there are components of IPA projects that require the government, or state, to guarantee the withdrawal of these loans. Therefore, it is quite logical that there is a broader consensus, that the minister does not want to decide on his own and that he has the support of the entire government, that is one, and two, to illustrate how the ministry was led and how one minister led the ministry in the past four years in the field of the environment, should not be an example of any minister and any government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11472	Janko Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11473	Thank you to your previous colleague, as a member of the SNS, for getting to know us that there are IPA projects. As far as this issue is concerned, the principle debate has essentially opened up again on this law. Of course, I don't want to thank the minister for transferring the funds belonging to them on 31 March to local self-government. What will citizens in these citizens do until then, will they breathe clean or air mixed with smog, with soot, with other substances that harm them and their children? It is not your private right, Madam Minister, to decide how the citizens of Serbia, or how local self-government will use the money that belongs to them in some way and belongs to them for environmental protection. So the 40% you'll give them on March 31st is not your good will. Environmental protection, i.e. environmentalology, has come down to the good will of the minister and the minister deals with all issues, except for the environment. It is also in the name of the ministry in third or fourth place. I don't blame you for your more important energy and all these topics. However, ecology is a very important area. We talked last time about the black snow in New Sad, and this morning he's black, what's left. How long are we going to play demagogy in this very important area? How long are we gonna talk in the past tense? How long are we going to talk about the IPA projects that we need now to discover, and are we going to finance ecology from IPA projects? Are we going to finance our health from IPA projects? It's an area where there's no joke, no serious government is playing with. I'm not saying that the minister spends non-purpose funds that, I say, are part of the ecological dinar. Not without purpose in the sense that he puts them in his pocket, but he spends them for other purposes that have nothing to do with the environment. They may go for the driver's salary, for the police's wages, for other salaries. We don't have a clear criterion where these funds go. We don't regret the fund that you've abolished, but we don't understand, we don't have transparency, we can't see where these funds are being spent. So you had one goal, you abolished the fund. Tell us -- where are these funds that have been collected as an ecological dinar, for which the purposes have gone, because we see across Serbia dumps along the roads again, we see that there is no measure of air purity, where do these funds go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11474	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11475	First of all, to Mr. Karic, no polluter has been released from paying his fees and is still in force and the Environmental Protection Act, and on the other hand that other law you mentioned has not been passed. To return to IPA projects, to the care of Mr Veselinović and DS representatives, and how we should talk about what happened. We can't make ourselves crazy about everything you've done right in the field of the environment, so your representatives, or DS, who ran the environment in previous years. Because this Environment Fund, to remind you once again, has held an annual amount of nearly seven billion dinars. Unfortunately, for these seven billion dinars, you have failed to do absolutely nothing in a work called improving the environment and sustainable development in Serbia, and you have had enough money to do so. When you mention that snow, etc., it's something that's existed for the past 10 years. To remind you again, it's not the responsibility of this ministry. This ministry is going to do everything, and also these changes and additions to the Air Law that we're doing, we're doing just to be able to create a national programme, to gradually reduce emissions, to create a strategy for air protection that you haven't done, you've been late for a year and a half. About the abuses of the Fund, to repeat, once again, and how we should talk, and that's what competent authorities do, as I already informed you last time. As far as the projects are concerned, and if someone is going to waste them, I'd ask you to tell me who's going to waste it, and if anyone is going to waste it. As for transparency and transparency, unlike you, this ministry of energy, development and environmental protection, there are three acts equally important, both first and third and second. All contracts signed and existing in the protection of the environment, as well as in energy, are already part of the Ministry's website, all of them, from first to last, and then the Serbian public will see how the Environment Fund worked, how you made the regulation that there were no public calls, no tenders when the Environment Fund co-finances projects, so make a project in which the Fund co-finances 0.2% of the project, just so there is no public call. Then make sure you give up the money, and we end up in a position to sign around 1,500 contracts from which there is absolutely no record or report. That's how you cared about the environment. I sincerely hope that never happens again. The theme today is to amend and supplement the Air Act. This air law is very important, precisely because of everything we want to do in the New Sad and anywhere else in our country. When we talk about air quality, New Now is in third category, you should know that for years. Yeah, he's got a problem with air quality. With a strategy, a national programme, these changes and additions, and all those regulations that are now following, which is why these changes are complemented by an emergency procedure, we will be able to talk for a certain time about that we have done something truly in the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11476	People's MP, by injury to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11477	Dear President, Ms. Minister, dear colleagues and friends, Article 107(1). Our colleague, a few minutes ago, in one way, has hurt the dignity of the congregation and this home. If we set an example and say - that he personally thinks, to paraphrasise now, the minister did not put the money in her pocket, but rather spends it unintendedly. You don't have to use that expression – she didn't put the money in her pocket. You know what you said. I would ask that we still respect, be patient, you can answer the line, I would ask that this government, which we have chosen, which we have voted for, to show due respect to the minister who is present here today and to ask concrete questions and give concrete advice, to solve the problems that we believe we can solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11478	Thank you, Mr. Karic. I don't think it's a injured member of point 107), but I thank you for your good intention to use the words that are appropriate during the debate. In any case, I think the MPs of the National Assembly today have enough understanding and I think they understand enough how important the debate is and how important it is to protect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Ivan Karic, the replica, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11479	Thank you. Honorable President, Your Honor, I am in favour of all 1,300 or all 1,500 contracts, as much as you mentioned, if they're all criminal to end up where they belong, but I haven't mentioned a single contract, not a single NGO, I've mentioned exclusively local self-government and money that local self-government generally doesn't get in the last six months. There were some payments at the beginning of this year on the territory of the Obrenovac municipality. Unfortunately, snow has been black in Obrenovac for 45 years. It has nothing to do with you or the previous government or the one before it, but there are some shifts every year and I hope that we will continue these shifts. I'd like one of my colleagues to help me, who knows better how the city of Belgrade works and who is now in the ruling coalition. I would like to mention the Environment Protection Programme and the Funding Programme in Belgrade's territory to protect the environment, as one of the best examples in Serbia's territory. Again, it would not turn out to be only the DS, if anyone could contact a fellow SPS or the PUPS, to explain a little bit how Mr. Secretary is mastered by the Ministry of Environmental Protection in Belgrade's territory and to teach little from our Belgrade secretary how to manage the environment in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On September 25th, the Law on Local Self-Government abolished benefits for protecting and improving the environment as the original revenues of local self-government. So, the finance minister, given that everything comes to his budget, spends money on its own initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11480	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11481	Just to remind you, when you talk about Obrenovac, everything that pays for the thermal power plant, of course, Obrenovac is a Belgrade municipality and it would be natural for most of that money to end up in Obrenovac right now. However, the city's government's decision goes into the city's budget, and the city's budget defines the money. It's not small money, it's about two billion dinars, if I'm well informed. So it's now a question of the organization of the city government and I fully agree that those black holes, as we call them, and that's certainly Obrenovac, it's Panchevo, and it's every Bor, they have to be treated in another way. I agree with the 40-year problem, but I guess we could go over all the years before to solve the problem, so now we're at least halfway away, and this is how we're at the beginning when we're talking about shows and when we're talking about that so-called. Black holes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11482	The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11483	I am very pleased that the complete documentation of the previous fund will be on the government website of the Republic of Serbia, which is very good. However, I am very dissatisfied that neither I as an MP nor as a citizen of Serbia are currently spending money on ecology. You can't give an answer to that. You don't know, because he took the money to his ministry, or at the disposal of Mladjan Dinkic. We defend you, as someone who should care about environmentalism, from Mladjan Dinkic, or those who decided to spend that money for other purposes. So I used the term that I don't think you're taking money in your pocket, but that you don't know what's going on with that money, or we don't know. Tell us what you have spent so much and so many dinars so far on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and on the environment? In that sense, I would like to talk about what is currently going on in the environment. You have abolished the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. You thought she was the source of some activity. What are you doing to clear Serbia right now? Did you replace that action with any other action? Will you replace or wait again for May or June to clean up these dumps that are now being created throughout Serbia by not having enough capacity to prevent it through certain inspection bodies? So you're not worried about environmental science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11484	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11485	Let's go back to the law we're changing. These changes and the additions of the Air Law are actually exactly the concerns of environmental science, what you didn't do, and you were obliged to do. I don't know what you're going to say about not only the fund, which is completely criminal, which is why I informed you that we're giving absolutely all the contracts to the prosecution, one and two, "Let's Clean Serbia". I don't know if there are any worse actions that were carried out in the previous period than what's called "Let's Clean Serbia". I don't know what's been cleaned up, except media cleaning and talking. The data shows clearly. So, on the other hand, when you're talking about inspections, it's just that we've changed inspections, or so far it's happened that it's enough for one inspector to come out, either with a recycling officer, or with some others, and on the basis of coming in or often not to come in at all, or to agree with someone to write a positive report and pay off money. We changed that, there are three inspectors today. There's an inspector's rotation today. Today, the inspection service is much stronger than it was, and that is what was missing from the environment. When you talk about how money is spent, you have a lot of right to know, up to the details and to the dinars you'll get in writing. Now I'll tell you what it looks like the way it's done. All those contracts that were concluded and that existed, as timed as they were concluded, were sent for payment to the Ministry of Finance. What is urgent, these were certainly energy efficiency programmes, recycling programmes, as well as certain projects with state institutions, and that is what was given on payment. Now goes the rest. What is continuing and what is important is the new contracts to be concluded for 2013. Therefore, no one will be left without what is called the other party to the contractual obligation, or money. But, on the other hand, we've been waiting as a ministry for months for reports on certain contracts. We can't find those who signed the contracts, have no contacts, have no addresses, and not tell you how amazing it is that something like that ever happened. Therefore, where contracts are valid, it goes definitely to pay. What didn't have to be checked out. I believe you're completely in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11486	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11487	I'd just like to amend one finding. I believe that the ministry has made a very good assessment and extremely good assessment of what it is that needs to be defined by this law, and what it is that needs to be defined by later regulations. In that sense, I would just add that there is no need to discuss it this way, because no one asks why the former government has signed a contract with an NGO from Stara Pazova, worth two million euros, without any competitions, and that the NGO, which is normally based in Zemun, is there for projects, has paid 10% of these funds, and now we do not know whether the organisation will sue the government of the Republic of Serbia for the funds. By the way, the president of the NGO is a former Serbian Assembly MP who supported the ruling majority. So obviously we have to accept one new mode of work, one new approach, one new transparency. In that sense, we believe that you have very well measured the way you define the subject that you regulate this law and this member at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11488	The replica was reported by MP Slavica Saveljic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11489	Thank you. It is a bit of a waste of meaning, given that I have responded to the replica because in previous discussions, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, in terms of a self-called and someone who took money into his ministry, has repeatedly mentioned himself. I really must say that these charges are absolutely not valid. Mladjan Dinkic is not a self-proclaimed minister, he is legally elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and someone who would have preferred to have found more money and more order in the state budget, and not that he was forced to bring order together with other government representatives into an empty house and into an empty register. Unfortunately, as the defendant on duty, he has already admitted here that he is guilty once, when it comes to the opposition, and the earthquake in Japan, so we will accept these criticisms accordingly. I ask you to go back to the law, because we have received a truly reasoned statement from the Minister about the way the money was spent in this topic, and the promise that we will get a regular report on everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11490	National MP Marijan Risticevic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11491	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have carefully read Mr. Karic's amendment and listened to the debates. I don't mind a way to check the accuracy of the measurements, etc. What worries me is that it is very quickly forgotten what we have inherited and what was done in the period before us. I'm going to talk about the midpoint measurements I'm coming from. There are three types of pollution - air pollution, which we are discussing, there is also pollution of land and water. In the middle of which I am, it is easy to determine that both soil and water and air are polluted. So, about a mile and a half from the center of Indjia, on the waterway, in regional waterway, a factory was built to recycle lead batteries. This was banned by Mr. Dulic, and then in a magical way, the government of Vojvodina and the secretary-general gave permission to build a lead recycling factory on the watershaft, and to insert waste water into the network canal in the factory circle, therefore, directly above the waterfall. And today, this lead battery recycling plant is working to pollute a whole regional waterway. Under number two, our air is polluted, and it can be easily determined by measurements because about a mile from the center of Indjia, a zinc processing plant was built. Under number three, land unpolluted, some regional dumps were built on the most fertile plain, money withdrawn here, some MPs and know it, abused from several sources, went into private pockets, and left us with a regional livestock tomb, even though we don't have any slaughterhouses nearby. So it's purely designed to take the money and to pollute the land through the livestock tomb. Also, a regional garbage dump was built, also not well done. Money was taken from foreign and domestic sources, abused. I think the organs are here. So it's not a problem in the amendment. The problem is, the former regime thought one thing, the other talked, and the third one worked. So this is proof. As far as measurements are concerned, I'd like to give some advice to the ministry and the government, if there are any foreign donations, to get a lab plane, given that measurements need to be made, and waste mixes are dropped from high-level aircraft. So we're witnessing that the press is full of signs about it. Even a Swedish politician or minister confirmed that such pollution exists, that since 2006, miracles have since 2006, since 2006, above our high-level sky, highly toxic matter has been released in which there are heavy metals and everything, and that it affects human health and lives, and that we cannot carry out these measurements without a lab plane. I would be practical, and I would advise the minister to get a plane to the lab as soon as possible, to which we can carry out these measurements and determine the degree of pollution of our air, because in a simple way, as I understand it, and I must admit that I am a layman in that sense, in a simple way, it is not possible to determine from the ground by measuring cells the degree of toxic pollution released from aircraft of international flights that go high above our land. As for the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, I think it's time for us to take this action once too, the ministry started it very well, and to already clear Serbia of political entities that have been steaming from protecting the environment and spending on other activities entirely, on ourselves, their own companies and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11492	MP Marko Atlagic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11493	I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm referring to article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Ambassador Janko Vesenovic insulted this assembly and all of us MPs by saying that this ministry has done nothing in the field of ecology. Here's an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11494	You can't, Mr. Atlagic, I apologize, so to speak. Mr. Vesenovic has the right to a legitimate political stance. So it's up to the citizens to judge whether he's right or wrong, but taking a political stance can't be the basis for hurting the Rules of Procedure. I must remind you, the violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the chairman of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11495	I'm sorry, my argument is that he hurt himself by making a false statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11496	We can't do that. He did not use offensive expressions or expressions that might offend the dignity of the National Assembly. Please, let's just get back to discussing this law. Mr. Karic, I can't give you my word, you don't have the basis for the replica, since you've already had twice. You're not directly mentioned, so I don't see the basis for the replica. If there is no one else under this amendment, we move on to Article 3. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Environmental Protection has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11497	Thank you, Mr. President. You have also informed all MPs that the committee responsible of the National Assembly has accepted this amendment, but that the ministry has refused. Our amendments, like the previous ones, and you'll see the next ones, are mostly going in the same direction, which is that we think that all those very important decisions, some will even have the form of a sublegal act. For example, this Article 42, which is subject to this amendment, creates a legal basis for the adoption of two new sublaws. In simple words, we believe that the government, together with the ministry responsible for environmental protection, should carry out these tasks. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We believe that every member where you predicted it should also have a ministry in charge of environmental protection matters. Let's say, in particular, this member of the 42nd amendment is in that part of the law that speaks of measures to improve the quality of air, the name of the member is – emissions from the combustion plant. I'll list what the government will do if you don't accept our amendment, which is that the government will prescribe the emission limit values of polluting substances from existing combustion plants, then methods and methods of measuring emissions of polluting matter, criteria for selecting measurement sites, deadlines for data delivery and methods, deadlines and procedure for determining the total annual emissions from the combustion plant, etc. So we ask the legislators to accept our arguments and accept this amendment as well. There's a fact that we here have a law of different practice. My colleague mentioned that yesterday we were talking about the Agricultural Encouragement Act, where the ministry mostly appeared, as a body that would pass a sublegal act, etc. So there's no mention of the government anywhere. It's simple, we think it may be, and when this area, where there's a lot of money, we've seen that today's discussion, and mostly when you show up here and when there's an environmental law on the agenda, there's talk of major abuses of the previous minister, the Environmental Protection Fund, etc. This is a very sensitive area, where there's a lot of money and a lot of problems. We think it is the best combination – the government, but on a proposal or in co-operation with the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11498	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11499	Same as the first part. So, you say -- the government along with the ministry. Of course, the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, as well as any other, I am a member of the government, therefore, unable to make and make a decision by the Government without being on a motion from the Resort Ministry. It's simple, that's understood. After all, there is no higher authority than the Government or the Assembly. So when the government makes a decision, it's something that certainly has more authority than just the ministry. Of course, it will not work on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, but rather on a proposal from the restoring ministry. What I point out to be of great importance to these amendments and to the addition of laws is precisely these two regulations that should arise when we adopt amendments and additions to the Air Law and I believe that this is the basis for us to do all the following, not only the regulations, but also the national programme and strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11500	The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Environment Committee has adopted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11501	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to pick up earlier because I really think we're wasting our time, but I'm going to say this for a second. A comment that the opposition has been manipulated, so now she's trying to achieve some other effect. It's just that the DSS doesn't know what they're thinking or who they're thinking, because we're certainly not meant to be. The Democratic Party of Serbia is the opposition today, it was an opposition to the past government. All four years past the government, this parliamentary group has worked very actively in the field of environmental protection and has been very active in all the negativity and the first one has talked about the "clean Serbia" action as completely negative, the first one has talked about many of the things that were. So there's no reason for me to be manipulated. The other thing is, I'm not the kind of guy you can easily manipulate, especially in the field of environmental protection. Third, why would the DSS try to hide something if in 2004, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica was formed and during the minister of this party, Aleksandr Popovic, a Environmental Protection Fund. This is the first step set up in that direction, we insisted that our minister, in fact our minister, was not headed by the board of directors, which we later pointed out, and the last minister was. We have no reason to hide in any way and try to manipulate something. Secondly, Madam Minister, the quality of the air, you said – it is very important for us to measure. We won't be able to measure it, and that's what we're saying. We won't be able to unless we have the means to pay for the monitoring. It's a very expensive procedure and that's the thing we'll talk about later. The third thing you say – of course, we will suggest, the government will accept. Without wanting to offend anyone, of course, that you're going to make a proposal and form a proposal, you're the competent ministry, you understand yourself in the area, simply, I'm not going to tell some minister that he doesn't find himself offended, but let's say I say the culture minister, of course he won't make the decision of that guy. So I don't see why a wider consensus would be, because consensus is being achieved where professional people are, where people work one area. You're a consensus, you in the ministry need to reach a consensus and you end up as a minister to propose it to the government and it's simply not realistic that the government is doing this job, that's my assessment. Then, when we talked about many things about amendments and additions to the law, and when we mentioned you and I earlier in a conversation that has jurisdiction, it is the responsibility of those who have the means. I'm going to tell you right now, a political decision has been made to cancel certain taxes. I can understand that they should be abolished, the people are really brought to the beggar stick and I have no mercy to tell anyone in person that he is responsible for it as the former prime minister and everyone else. But there is simply a way for these fees to remain, to be built, to be realised in any way, because they are the basis for work and ministry and some local self-government. For example, one such fee was the payment for the registration of motor vehicles for environmental pollution. I'm sorry, realistically, motor vehicles pollute the environment, there's got to be a way to find these funds, a pay polluter, and that's our basic principle in protecting the environment, now to re-integrate the environment that is ruined by cars that have worn out, that use engines that aren't adequate, that use fuel that pollutes the environment. Of course, I'm talking again about the poor part of the people who don't drive cars on solar power and stuff. I'm talking about the most polluting, unfortunately. When we abolish these fees, we say 78 municipalities, 78 local self-government remains one half of the resources to work in the field of environmental protection, that 37 local self-government for the same reason is no longer between 50 and 90% of the funds in the environmental budget, and 30% of local self-government has no, believe it or not, no money, there is no local budget. Again, and the fact that many local self-governments have used this dinar for other things and have turned these local budgets into anything but environmental protection, but I am talking about that we, of course, are the results that the Chamber of Commerce has placed and that is what an environmental organization from Vršca called "The Station" has done for them, these are the results and numbers that I use. With such an empty budget, we now expect the local self-government and the ministry with them to work to protect the environment, and we need to ask the question from which funds they will do so and whether 30 or 23 of the most underdeveloped local self-governments in any way will be able to respond to any request in the area where I mention it again, one third of the documentation is the one that is in line with the EU. For these reasons we mention the Fund, first very rationally, we mention this Fund ecologically because we have to agree we don't have a better mechanism. If you do, I really like to find a mechanism that will eventually enter the environmental protection system and contribute to it. I speak precisely from that position, and I am absolutely not interested in former ministers, nor those ministers, nor this government, I have calmly listened to what you had among yourselves to say, representatives of the parties from the former government and those who are today, but I am speaking from the position of someone who is engaged in environmental protection, so I speak for your benefit as well. Indeed, I speak for your benefit, although it may seem that we speak for a whole other position and it is, I speak as an opposition MP, and you are a minister, but I think our goals are common. So please, and later on there will be words about the Fund, when we talk about the Fund, we have submitted an amendment that will be the key to this where we predict the possibility of making some internal regnem, so we hope that you will come up with how you solve these mechanisms. But that's our goal, and that's why we keep mentioning these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11502	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11503	I'll just say one sentence, not to repeat myself, about the government and the ministry. All fees and all fees are currently in question phase. What we're doing, too, is certainly an analysis of how things are going with the shut-down fund and the current state. It is difficult and it is not as it would be if this Fund were in the ministry itself, it is quite clear, but on the other hand I respect the government's decision, but because with a certain analysis that we are doing now, I believe that we may try to find someone a little different, faster and more efficient, because it would certainly be in the interest of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11504	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11505	Thank you. Dear President, dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, in this amendment we are talking about a list of substances that damage the ozone layer. We thought we could make it easier for the government, which primarily advocates decentralisation, that a part of the issue of permits, which under the conditions prescribed by the Government, could be issued by the authorities of local self-government, municipalities and cities. It seems to us that today is the 21st century and that the moment you finish something in the municipality can be found in the ministry's system at the same time, because the explanation is that everything has to happen in the ministry, because we can't manage the database in a good way, which is one extremely strange explanation. It seems to us that it is a very big problem that everyone is coming to the ministry, there are those who handle the Freon and who are extremely few or have few employees, and then imagine that spending from Piroth, Dimitrovgrad, from Leskovac, from Vranje to Belgrade only to get permission, and if they can complete a permit in Vranje for one employee more costs him the way to Belgrade than anything else they will earn in Vranje by changing the freeon in the climate. As you know, over 80% of the climate is free, and very little ethyl glycol, and that's why this amendment is. We just thought we'd make it easier for the ministry, that's all. Just to point out that Green Serbia has no doubt that your ministry is spending money. For all abuses, we believe that you should go to prison immediately, but the Law on Local Self-Government on 25 September 2012 abolished the original revenues of local self-government from pollution charges. I won't ask for an apology, even though you said it wasn't true. I also found the date on which the amendments to that law were passed. Therefore, local self - administrations do not have the money to follow them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11506	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11507	Regarding the amendment you submitted, first of all, we are also signatories of the Montreal Agreement. Secondly, when you're talking about local self-government dealing with licensing, etc., I have to tell you that we're not up to it yet, nor do we have a system that we can do it that way. What's quite clear now is that every minute, every minute, every hour, the ministry has full records of the licenses issued, of the permits to be given, of the shows, etc. I think it's a way for things to be effective. I'm not saying that in a number of years we're not different, so we might be able to apply that, but right now I'm afraid there'd be a lot more problems, at least that's what we think when we analyzed some things, but if we gave such an opportunity to local self-government, but now, when it's centralized practically in the ministry itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11508	Replica, Mr. Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11509	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I have the impression that you have commended me with shyness and that there will come a time when this will be implemented in Serbia's system. I don't praise you so shyly. I said in a few previous sessions that you had very good moves, starting with nuclear energy, up to some last moves. We think it's the 21st century and that system can work. I understand that the time will come, as will the time for Green Serbia, when all of this will be able to function with local self-government. Listening to my colleagues and colleagues on my left, I feel like I've been in power for the past 12 years, even though I was first in parliament six months ago. Green Serbia for the first time in parliament, and some colleagues and their parliamentary groups for some 12 years in power, some also for 12 years, just called themselves differently, some of the last four years in power and respected me for some things. When I said the self-proclaimed cashier, I didn't say the self-proclaimed minister, and I respect that the minister is a minister, but I'm glad you recognized who I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11510	According to the amendment, Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11511	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would certainly welcome the care of the ozone wrapper and the substances that damage it. What worries me is that colleagues need to look around. Let's wonder if "Sartid" affects the ozone layer and how much. I'm asking the Ministry if you've ever done a measurement of how much this company earns the environment, how much it affects air pollution since the Americans entered the Sartid? Have those measurements ever been made? Has anyone ever tried to get in and measure the pollution within and around the Sartid factory, the Smederevo Ironworks? Not that I know of. As far as I know, there's no record of filters, what kind and what filters there are, no measurement records, we don't know how much pollution there is. As far as I know, they couldn't even get into the Sartid, try to make measurements and control the filters. That's what I know. I would like the ministry to deny me and say, given that these data are not a secret, when and who was doing those measurements after 2002 and 2003, since the privatisation of US Still, i.e. the Radizara Smederevo. The only thing we got from the one-euro Zelezara Smederevo is a 500m-euro debt belonging to the state. Just to remind you, when that hardware was purchased from the Serbian state, it was bought without any debt. The state took over a billion euros in debt, sold for 26m to Zelizar Smederevo, which no one could control how much it polluted the environment. When they returned it to us again, they gave it back to us for one euro, but with a debt of 500m euros that no one had ever responded to, as they would not even be responsible for breaking the ozone layer by pollution from that hardware store, since measurements were not made, and there are no records of filters that were used there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11512	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11513	For the sake of good information, I must tell you and deny you that the measurements have been made. Otherwise, several measuring stations exist in Smederev. As a major contaminant, Sartid was obliged twice a year to measure either through the Public Health Office or another authorised institution. The inspectors go out and watch all this and give their reports. So there's a report in the ministry itself about Sartid and not just Sartid, but all those other black holes I mentioned. Of course, they have an obligation to pay as a large polluter because they pollute the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11514	The 5th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and environmental protection committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the clean system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11515	Thank you, Mr. President. These amendments to the existing law, i.e. Article 51 and the title above Article 51, are re-created, i.e. there is a legal basis for the Government to adopt a sub-legislative act, and regarding the permanent replacement of substances that damage the ozone layer. It's one of the functions, therefore, of creating that legal basis. Otherwise, this Article 51 speaks of a gradual reduction in the consumption of substances that damage the ozone layer, then the treatment of these substances, the handling of equipment and products containing substances that damage the ozone layer, the handling of these substances after the use of the product, the collection and permanent disposal of these substances, the regulation of their reuse and what I consider to be very important is the labelling of equipment and products containing substances that damage the ozone layer. So a very important and significant member. We also see here the Ministry's intention to deal seriously with this problem as soon as they have foreseen the creation of a sublegal act to which all these issues would be detailedly regulated. So it could be one of these members, but if you don't have methods, procedures, ways, conditions, etc. which you prescribe in more detail by sublaw, then it's not right. I reiterate that it is not good that the ministry did not accept our amendment, which refers to the government, together with the ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks, taking part in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11516	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and environmental protection committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the clean system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11517	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, is a very similar amendment to the previous amendments. There are many Freon climates in Serbia and many fire-fighting systems with freons. Over 80% of the climate is freon. As in the previous explanation, we thought it might make it easier, to reduce the ministry's crowds. Imagine if anyone who wants to get a driver's license came to Belgrade and didn't end up in their local self-government? I think there are technical and software ways to unload the ministry. Again, this is not a criticism to the ministry, but a desire for the ministry to work faster, more successfully and better. What the distinguished minister just said, Smederevo is in the third category of pollution, very polluted, there are certain measurements, I agree with a colleague who talked about the need for these measurements to be more. It is the right of local self-government to monitor its own measurements in its units of local self-government. The polluters can measure for themselves so they don't overstep, but we'll control them in local self-government as they spend that money. Over the last twenty years, there have been some shifts, and all the governments have been bringing these shifts, all the power filters in Obrenovac have been changed. A polluter cadastre was built between 2004 and 2008. The first automatic monitoring station in Obrenovac was done, which controls pollutants. I'm talking about the period between 2004 and 2008. During that period, over 5,000 children went to climatic recovery, which had obstructive bronchitis, asthma, pulmonary disease. At the time I worked at the Environmental Protection Fund in Obrenovac Municipality, and I worked very well with colleagues from the DSS who set the foundations of the fund, and who formed a good ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11518	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11519	Just for a little while. The unique registry is still something that is the only solution for us right now, the most efficient solution. It's at the ministry level, not yet at the level of local self-government. If you're talking about tech, then let me let you know that these permits are given by mail requests and also by mail they come back. In the sense that when we talk about this crowd, there's no traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11520	The word has a National MP Ivan Karic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11521	Your Honor, Minister, I would like to thank you for your explanation. A very logical explanation. There's some expenses, too, but let's not have a leak right now. You said in your first explanation that there would come a time when these software could work and we in this amendment did not intend to discredit the uniqueness of the system, but we just thought that it could facilitate the flow of information, to reduce pressure. If it can be done by mail, it would be good to do it electronically, since I'm performing on behalf of Green Serbia, we don't have to waste paper if it's not necessary, etc. The lowest savings are for both the budget and the environment and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When we start to think about small things, about small changes, about small changes, we're going to do one big thing at the level of the Republic of Serbia, and we don't need to say that we bring unnecessary costs, if we can save them, like we're wasting our energy here in this room. Perhaps it would also be as pleasant and as working to save a little more energy. Any energy savings are beyond necessary, and this in total can lead to some major investment in perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11522	Are you answering the Rules of Procedure? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: About the amendment. You don't have time. Mr. Janko Veselinović has six minutes and 30 seconds left. He can. The 6th Amendment, together with the correction, was submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11523	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister and People's MPs, Article 6 is an old member of 52nd, and now I purposely read the authority of the Government – the control of emissions, lists and composition of florified gases with the effect of the glass garden, the treatment of florad gases, products or equipment containing them or relying on them, the treatment of florified gases after the use of products or equipment containing them or relying on them. Then – the way they are collected, refurbished, processed, destroyed or permanently delayed, placed on the market, the way in which they are re-used, the way in which products or equipment containing these gases are marked and the procedures for verifying discharge from stationary, cooling, air conditioning equipment, etc. Why am I reading this? I'm deliberately counting because I'm simply wondering, fully aware of the importance of this topic, how well is our government informed about all of this, how much does it know about the effects of the glass garden, about the increase in temperature by 1.5 degrees, about the problems of melting poles? Now we came to what you and I were just talking about. You suggest a solution and then a consensus is made. You don't need a consensus, Madam Minister. We've all said that we're full of trust in you and that you can make your own decisions. That what we've been saying doesn't look like a coded language, I mean that the greenhouse gases are responsible for climate change and that our citizens, because the climate is drastically changing and in Serbia, are very interested in this topic and are familiar with it. The amendment was, again, that the government's authority, on the proposal of the Minister of Ecology, could exist, but that the government's competence to make itself such a dramatic decision for the citizens of Serbia, we really do not accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11524	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11525	I have to admit, I don't quite understand why such a significant act so much wants to come down from a higher level, such as the government's decision, to a lower level than a ministry's decision. I'll also tell you, when a decision is made on a proposal from the resolution ministry, for example, the environment, then on that decision to make a decision, there are opinions from related ministries that have to give their opinion, say energy, traffic. Finally, there is also a significant European integration. So, in my opinion, it's much better for more ministries to give an opinion and then finally the government to make that key, final decision. Of course, every minister doesn't have to and should not know, but there are related ministries, equally important. This opportunity in the government is energy and the environment together, but it doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be in the next one. Energy is related, it also gives its position on emissions. It's like I said health care and traffic, agriculture, etc. That's one of the reasons why we put it - the government. Of course, I repeat once again, on the motions of the Resolute Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11526	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11527	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I like your attitude, to see more and better eyes, but then I would expect that rule from the other ministers. It happens that only this Ministry, conditional on our ministry, is looking for consensus, and all the other ministries are very good at keeping things in their hands and they know very well what they're talking about. If the ministry prepares all of this and if there is co-operation between the ministries, it's a common body and the government is a common body, and I'm characterising it on purpose, because I want to say that we're coming to this, you're completely professional, you have a professional ministry, I'm asking you to take responsibility, and we're going to follow it. I really think it's a place to protect the environment that finally appears somewhere, the environment minister, as a person, as a title, as anyone, is simply visible. That's what we want, and that's why our amendments kept going in the same direction as our discussion. We from the opposition have confidence that you can take over, so take over.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11528	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11529	I must say that all other ministers have an obligation to carry out their every decision through the government. Because experience shows something else, I'm going to give you an example of energy. Ministers signed various documents, memos, etc., it never went through the government and never went into realisation. My view is different, no matter what someone says I prefer energy, it's not true, but every decision in the field of energy, especially when it comes to infrastructure projects, etc. I think the environment is equally important and perhaps even more important. I think she should get the final seal of the government itself. That's one of the reasons I see it, how we see it in the government. Maybe we're wrong, very soon it'll show up, whether it was effective or not. We're going to work as a environmental fund, we're doing an analysis, so we're looking at where we're all in trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11530	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11531	Thank you. With this amendment to Article 52, we have proposed that the certificates referred to in Article 1 be awarded by a certification institution, institution or body designated by the Government. We here think that again, as in previous amendments, we do not discredit or exclude the government from the regulation of certain regulations, but simply, it is known what certification bodies are for and if there is a procedure under which they assign certificates, we do not see why the Government would participate in everything and in obtaining and reusing certificates etc. We agree that the government must prescribe by a certain regulation or regulation conditions, minimum requirements and procedures, but we think there should be a certification house. In Serbia today, there are two or three or maybe four. It's not that important. But there are very respectable houses at EU level where you can verify something, any product. We are now talking about a specific matter in the domain of air protection. But like this, if the government can give and take away certificates, if it's not going to be too harsh a word, it seems to me to be a little bit like a business that the government wants to control, and there's no need for that, because there are houses that deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11532	Thank you. The 7th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11533	Article 7 introduces a new member who comes after Article 52 of the existing law. It's a new member of 52a. Again, through this new member, a legal basis is being created for the adoption of another sublegal act. We usually welcome the Ministry's intentions that all those sublegal acts that should have been passed long ago, I think they were deadlines by 2011 for about five, to do so in this term. With this bill, there are also a lot of sublegal acts to be passed. In Article 52a, we are talking about the certification of employees in sectors using substances that damage the ozone layer and fluorinated gases with the effect of the glass garden. Therefore, there are regulated conditions and minimum requirements, procedures for obtaining, confiscating or renewing certificates, i.e. permits or licences employed to handle these substances. Someone said there are many cooling devices in Serbia, many air conditioning systems, there are many fire protection systems, so it is very important regarding the dangers of the substances these people are handling, that the certification is carried out properly and quality. That is why we again believe that, besides the Government, the adoption of this regulation should be part of the ministry responsible for environmental protection matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11534	Thank you. The 9th Amendment, together with the correction, was submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11535	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, you once made a statement here and were very proud of how you never violated the Rules of Procedure. That finding was explained by the fact that in Parliament's voting day, it had never voted in favour of the Rules of Procedure's violation. However, I will draw your attention to the fact that you are constantly violating the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11536	Excuse me, are you speaking by amendment or by hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11537	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11538	Then go back to the text. Don't break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11539	I'm not going to violate the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, I'd just like to draw your attention...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11540	Don't distract me. You have no right to do that. You're talking about the amendment, because it's on the agenda. Please don't make me apply the business provisions that take away your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11541	All right. I accept entirely your philosophical attitude of existentialism. In any case, Article 128. The rules of procedure remain broken at today's session. When I wrote this amendment, first of all I had in mind the fact that in September of last year, a law was passed that abolished the Law on the Environment Fund. During today's debate, some things have been published, and it is very important that this Environmental Protection Fund and how it is missing, is missing as one transparent way, is one opportunity to see what is happening to the green dinar, where it comes from and where it goes, how it is spent. So I'm not getting into the fact that this fund worked. I don't even get into those details whether it was in accordance with the law or not. That's what the official institutions of this country will determine. However, it is evident that the Environmental Protection Agency is at risk, and it would be good, Madam Minister, to pay attention as well within your ministry, in which way your assistants, i.e. state secretaries, who are in charge of protecting the environment, respond precisely to the functioning and that part of your ministry's competence, which is environmental protection. Obviously, the functioning of that protection is difficult. That's what you just said. It's probably hard for that reason because the funds are missing. There's obviously some kind of misunderstanding here by that ministry, I mean the Ministry of Finance, which should regulate the issue of financing environmental protection. Obviously, many projects have been questioned since September that fund was abolished and it is simply unacceptable. It is clear to me that your role is very complex when you manage such a ministry that should deal with both energy and development and environmental protection. There are some collations. But you have to do it. If this work of yours is difficult, it would be good to draw attention to the fact that something is changing or that at least what exists is respected by other ministries and by the government as a whole. I don't know if you followed closely when reading whether any of these amendments were adopted by the government, whether it was supported by the board, so you could notice that several amendments were adopted by the board. So they got the support of the Environment Protection Committee. I could tell you it's only for that reason because the opposition voted for the adoption of these amendments. No matter what political option the amendment came from, but MPs who were members of the Committee on Environmental Protection supported all these amendments, believing that they were in favour of improving the quality of this bill. We were in the majority as opposition MPs on that committee because most of the members of the ruling coalition were not present. And that's saying something about what the ruling coalition's relationship is, therefore, this parliament's relation to this topic - environmental protection. If this relationship of parliament, the ruling coalition towards this topic, we can think about what the government's relationship to this subject is and then we are all clear why it is difficult to access the environment in the right way. When we discussed on the board the proposal for this law, among other things, the question was whether after this unpleasant experience, which arises because of the lack of the existence of the fund, the ministry would take action, or that it would propose to the government to take action in this regard. It has been said that, possibly, some department at the Environmental Protection Agency could take that role as a fund. Obviously, there is this view in the ministry itself that the fund is missing, somehow losing track of that green dinar, that the work of the Environment Protection Agency is difficult, that the work of the Ministry of Environment, ie energy and development in that segment of protection is difficult, and that this will produce certain negative consequences. These negative consequences are already there. It would be good to have what you choose and to consider whether there are any rights by ministers, government members, state secretaries, assistants to question the functioning of such a serious topic, such as a serious resistor and protection of the environment, in a way that simply makes funding difficult, by preventing the existence of a fund, or a clear way of funding from a particular centre with certain sources of funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11542	Time. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11543	I've got 15 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11544	You don't have 15 minutes, time is wasted. It was spent in a previous debate and you don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11545	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11546	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11547	I didn't think I'd mention the way those four amendments of 25 were adopted, but I'll mention it. Of course, the quorum did exist, and MPs were in parliament, sitting down because there was no break. As far as I'm concerned, it is true that MPs were not present, not because the subject is irrelevant and irrelevant. On the contrary, this is a very important topic, after all, for all, and for the position and opposition, so that those four amendments were adopted and after that you had other amendments, which had exactly the same reasons somewhere and were not adopted. I don't know if it's that important, but since you mentioned it, I had to say. When you talk about the environmental fund, I believe you're really worried. I don't think anyone is more concerned about how to finance environmental projects than the ministry itself and myself personally. I think it's a very important area and that this slowness, which is definitely there now, and that's what I see as a problem first of all, that this slowness has to be solved in another way. That's what we're working on, and it certainly won't be the three Environmental Protection Agency department. It will certainly be within the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection itself. I believe that we will come out very quickly with a particular proposal, how to speed up the way the environmental projects are financed in the right way. When you talk about the green dinar, about the loss of a lead, etc., today listening to this whole debate, my not only conclusion but also the obligation is that within the shortest time possible, all MPs get a report on how each dinar has been spent since this ministry was created as such, in terms of dinar related to environmental projects. So, from the beginning to the end, you'll get a report and then, of course, we can talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11548	The word is by MP Milica Vojić Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11549	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, I'm very sorry you were misinformed. I don't know who misinformed you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11550	Please just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure are you advertising?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11551	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. What happened on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment was wrongly interpreted. I've invited all the representatives and the opposition and the positions to come to the meeting regularly. The ones who came were quorum. I didn't choose those who came before and those who came later. Some have had their business obligations, which is very complicated when you're an MP, because then you only have your own parliamentary obligations, but some priority is given to your other business obligations. The board voted that he voted completely regular, according to the Rules of Procedure. The quorum existed according to the Rules of Procedure. It does not say in the Rules of Procedure that opposition MPs are not allowed to begin a session unless there are MPs from the government. I'm sorry, opposition MPs have come to do their job. Representatives from the government, for example, here today among colleagues in power there is no one who is a member of that committee and who was at that meeting. That's not my fault. The session can't happen because it's not a regular vote if they're not there. Yes, it is. No one cheated on anyone, only then there were members of the opposition much more and they felt that these amendments were worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11552	I ask the MPs that when they report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, they call carefully for a member who has been broken. Article 104. The Rules of Procedure determines the replica, the right to the replica, and that has nothing to do with what you've been talking about. Please take care to bring the end. The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11553	I'm referring to article 107. The Rules of Procedure, for the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly, is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. There I believe that telling the truth is the duty of every speaker, or in any way, in any way should not be something that is false. The fact is that I am not a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, chaired by Mrs Vojić Markovic. However, as the applicant for the amendment, together with other colleagues, MPs who had submitted the amendment with me, I went to the session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. I went to the session when there was a certain break here at the plenary session. I was able to see the vote and all the debate that was at the moment. I note that when the break was set, I did not go from those steps to the Committee session, but I went to a small hall where there was public listening, to attend a session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and I was able to see what the chairman, or president of the Committee, was talking about today. We were able to participate in the work, each was given the opportunity, and the fact is that when I arrived in the O.R., several other MPs came in turn and that later the quorum arrived at 11, 12, 13, how many were there. But the moment I entered the O.R., it was a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11554	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11555	Let me finish my thought. I don't see the right of any individual, including a minister, to comment on the work of the Committee of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11556	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11557	First, I apologize. I was informed that the session was ongoing, and I said what I said. Thank you for saying that, no problem. What I also want to say, since the president of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment has reacted so sharply, at no time have I disputed that you have made a regular decision, either of which I have said that the four amendments adopted, two of which have almost the same explanation as the next two, three that you have not adopted, are talking about relations within the Committee itself. Not for a moment, just to point out, because I think that's significant, I haven't slowed down the regularity of your decisions, nor do I think of doing it. I just explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11558	The word is made by the People's Messenger Gordana Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11559	Thank you. Article 27. The chairman, without doubting that you will agree with me that you have violated the Rules of Procedure this time, because Article 27 obliges you to take care of the order of the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Law on the National Assembly, the Constitution and the laws governing the work of the Government. You must remind the Minister, every member of the government, that he has no right to comment on the Committee's work. There is no right to comment on the committee's work, whether it be members of the ruling majority or opposition. This is neither the main committee of any political party, nor the ministry. This is the National Assembly and the Committee's work has been defined so that committees control ministers, not vice versa, that ministers allow themselves to comment on what is happening on committees, especially on committees they have not attended, what is happening, and how the Committee's work is scheduled. This isn't about the minister specifically. It is a very serious principle that I am convinced that you will agree with me because in these cases you are obliged to warn a member of the Government who is being controlled and who has the right to comment on whose work. At the meeting of the board, each member of the government, by the Minister through the State Secretary and Assistants, has the right and obligation to consider with the members of the board everything that the Committee is working for is in the general interest. This is how during the session on ads – she said and heard and it was transmitted to give qualifications on the work of any committee is inadmissible and it is common damage. I would like to thank the Minister that after she has been informed she has sent an apology, and I ask you to agree with me that any member of the Government of any party supported will not be allowed with the consent of the chairman of such a violation during the session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11560	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'll agree with you. I ask all the MPs and representatives of the Government to try to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to introduce this session into normal flows. Any of the other applicants report any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11561	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 27, paragraph 128. Rules of Procedure, and I would like to mention article 116. The important thing is that just before I mentioned to Mr. President of the Assembly that he was constantly violating the Rules of Procedure... So as soon as he notices that there's one card standing without an MP in the O.R., he breaks the Rules of Procedure. The fact that the president of the assembly suddenly disappeared from the post of chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11562	Please, Mrs. Popovic. What does that mean, suddenly disappeared? Don't put it like that. Tell me what article 128 has been broken into.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11563	Why is it so offensive now if a man is missing? Okay, he's gone. It's not a problem. There is a reasonable doubt that the moment he realized that he was violating the Rules of Procedure had solved the problem by leaving. That is not how the problems are solved, but it is by drawing attention to the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure, and in particular Article 128. I don't know which time we LDP MPs point to a constant violation of the Rules of Procedure and Article 128(2). Therefore, it would be very good for both the chairman and the president of the Assembly to understand that they must respect the Rules of Procedure and must not violate it no matter what personal attitude they have toward the one pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, that is the only reason why I wanted to draw attention to Mr. President to Article 128 at the expense of my parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11564	The president explained today, and I'll repeat that if the MPs leave the room, they'll take their cards out of the MPs' units. The word is made by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11565	I would like to replicate Mrs. Vojic Markovic, the chairman of the board. I'm a living specimen of the position in the O.R., and he's a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11566	Mr. Bojanic, you can't replicate. You can talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11567	She mentioned that no one from the board member's position is in the O.R. I'm here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11568	You have no right. I can't give you a word on that basis. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11569	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11570	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11571	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first, I owe my colleague an apology. I really didn't see him. He was at the board meeting and now he's in the O.R. One of the few. We have changed Article 9 and it is – funds for financing, protecting and improving air quality will be provided from the budget fund in the RS budget, aimed at financing jobs and projects in the field of environmental protection and from the obligation of operators under the law. The Budget Fund for the purpose and financing of jobs and projects in the field of environmental protection forms the Government on a proposal from the Minister responsible for environmental protection tasks no later than 31 March 2013. I will briefly say the 2004 Environmental Protection Fund was shut down in the autumn of 2012 with the reason that there have been massive abuses in the area, that for these reasons the Fund should be abolished. I don't dispute abuse. For reasons of saving, one number of agencies and this environmental fund are abolished. Of the 137 agencies, these two, three, have been abolished for environmental protection. All others remain spending budgets continue to be spent on the back of the people of Serbia, but have spent significantly only these for environmental protection and have been extinguished in the first round. And the Fund went unspeakable. The explanation was ridiculous. It is known which organs work in the event of abuse. The fund didn't abuse itself. Someone else has abused the Fund's resources, not the Fund, so the Fund has disappeared as a victim of all this. Since he had seven billion funds, I was not surprised that he was missing in the first drink. These funds are directed at all sides and at least to protection. The problem now is how the ministry works because both the ministry and other environmental entities are, in fact, the key environmental fund as such. We have offered a solution to establish a budget fund by 31 March, which we have offered as a transitional solution, that this budget fund is practically paying off all those projects and all that is now the problem. Recyclists are a problem. They're definitely a problem. The problem is monitoring. Gentlemen, we need to know one thing, air monitoring, water, land and how important it is for us, for the MPs, for the state, for the government representing that state, for all citizens. If we don't have the means to monitor and that's what the standards are for. In one area we have reached certain standards. We have invested an awful lot of funds only when it comes to air protection in monitoring the measuring station where four million euros have gone. The EU's funds are built on 24, 12 were paid from the Fund. Something in the Fund worked, so it paid for what was useful. So, these reached standards if they are not respected, if we don't know the results of the report, we won't be able to respond as a state. When we see a state of affairs then as a state, you as a ministry have to answer that, so you say - my thermal power plants are the biggest pollutants, what am I going to do with thermal power plants? That's what we said when we changed the Energy Act, we'd move on to another kind of fuel. We will not use this species that we use today and whose resources we slowly empty or regulate by law how to protect chimneys or this or that. So that's the state's answer. If we don't have it, then there's no response from the state. Every Serbian citizen has the right to know what air he's breathing. He knows that without the results coming up, but when the results come up he has the right to say yes, and I am right to ask that my city and my country react and to protect me and my family and my children, because of all kinds of illnesses 27 diseases are caused by problems with air that are not clean. That's where I'm talking. I'm speaking from the position of someone who really doesn't know any other mechanism. The fund exists in many countries, is formed and is a good mechanism for using the money paid by the polluter and entering environmental protection. It's the purest mechanism, the simplest mechanism, the most visible mechanism. I'd like to welcome you to come up with a better one. It'll be the first in this part of the world, maybe even wider. Until it's made up, everything else is a problem. Monitoring stops work. You have probably seen articles coming out of the paper these days to shut down air quality stations, to shut down five so far, and 35 would go out, that there would really be problems with the citizens of Serbia who want to know the results of that measurement. I think the proposal we sent you makes sense. A budget fund can be created, no one defends it. We have seen that there are other budget funds within the budget. Make that a transitional solution, and I'm sure you'll come to the same. Return the trust, and with those who break the law, you know how to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11572	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11573	Thank you. First I'm going to start with air monitoring, 78 measurement stations, and that budget you mentioned for air monitoring, as you say it stops with air monitoring, I have to say it's not true. So, the budget, I'm sure you know that well, was between 16 million and 17 million years ago. For 2013, the year is 25. What's interesting, and what I got, is that with this environmental fund, which we mention as something that was missing and that had close to seven billion dinars a year, the analysis says that in 2011, the amount of sulphur oxide produced was 7% higher than in the previous year with the existence of a environmental fund. Nitrogen oxides were 15% higher than in the previous years. Dust matter was 15% higher. The fund existed, that's clear. The money was in the fund, that's clear. The quality of the air was worse, if that's what's supposed to happen. Also, you brought one thing out. I quote - this money that is now in the budget is directed to all other sides, only not to the protection of the environment. Therefore, if you have information about this, please inform me as well. I don't know what else that went to, and it didn't go to environmental protection. I was just explaining how this works now, and I said the biggest problem is the slowdown, which is what we now have the ministry giving a warrant, what needs to be paid to the finance ministry, the finance ministry further. It's a time that's unnecessary in the sense that it's slower than it's supposed to be. When you talk about setting up a budget fund, you know for yourself that a budget fund can be established based on its own income. Since March 2012, by decision of the previous government, there is no such income. For that reason, we couldn't accept this amendment. I guess the explanation I gave you is clear enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11574	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11575	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's put it in order. Let's first of all, there was a Fund, and the air quality was so bad. What does the Fund have to do with air quality? Thanks to the Fund, we found out what our air quality is. So he paid for the monitoring. That's very important. We found out what our air quality is. If we don't do monitoring, if we don't measure air quality, we won't know and there'll be no response from the state. How did I get to where the funds went? Simple logic. If about 7 billion is paid, if now the environment budget is 0.2% of the total budget, it's not a 7 billion figure. That's a much smaller number. I've come to that very simply. Who gave us information on how many measuring cells there are and how many are we shutting down? Politics gave this information. On the Committee on Environmental Protection, we had a report on air condition, air quality, and the director of the Environment Protection Agency made it very clear that since October of the month, he has been slowly suspended from payment, that five stations were first abolished, to eliminate the next few. He mentioned Valjevo because I insisted that I get information about it. He mentioned how cells are restored. In politics, the article says very clearly that due to these pay disturbances in 2012 there is about 30% less valid data than in 2011. Now he's saying all that. The man publicly said that on the board. This is where the people who heard it are present. I think maybe your colleagues were, too. I'm not sure. On payments, the director says it hasn't been paid since October 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11576	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11577	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister, respected colleagues, I did not intend to report to you, but as a doctor of hygiene specialists and as someone coming from the Public Health Institute in Krusevec, I can only inform you that the use of stations installed throughout Serbia's territory through the Environment Protection Agency is not the only cells that carry out continuous monitoring of air quality or emissions of harmful gases, as previously called. So public health institutions in the entire Rasin County territory are constantly controlling the quality of air. This also happens with all other public health institutions authorised and operating under ISO Standard 17/25. We can't say we're in danger and we won't have any valid data. All institutions are bound by contracts with the Ministry of Environmental Protection which are concluded at the beginning of the year to continuously, monthly, quarterly and annual send data to the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection on concentrations of polluting matter and on the health status of the population in the territory of their district, in relation to respiratory diseases, which are indirectly related to the state of air quality. Therefore, we cannot say that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has no valid data. There are and they will always have them, because in the public health ministry's job description, there is control and protection of air quality, as well as protection of the population from mass non-infectious diseases, where these diseases belong. 20 years ago, when I became an employee of the Institute, measurements were made on four checkpoints in the middle where I work and live and clearly depicted an ambience whose quality is measured, whether it's a high-frequency traffic zone, recreational zone, urban zone or another zone. In the previous period there was not enough funding and it was reduced to two points. It's a clear indication that we can have a clear state of air quality that we breathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11578	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11579	I didn't say anything that wasn't true. There are networks made by institutes and public health institutions, but they are parallel networks using older measurement methods and these measurement methods are only used as parallels. They're not the only ones who can give the results of the measurements. Monitoring, after all, is prescribed by law and knows exactly who is authorized to monitor. I didn't make that up. I didn't write it or anything. I just said what's in the law, and I know about the existence of parallel networks, local networks that for some reason have worn out and can't be used completely and reliably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11580	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11581	I just need to let you know that the system that works at the Public Health Office is operating under ISO 17000/25. So it's not outdated, it's not exhausting, it's consistent with the Institute's resources. You know exactly what certification and validation of all methods looks like. We've come very hard to get that certificate. We've got him, we're not out of date, we're out of date. On the other hand, the same people working on that, as you say, parallel, it used to be the basic system for monitoring environmental protection, working on the use of the station that was installed 100 meters from the point where parallel measurement of the aero-pollution in the communal environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11582	Thank you. Milica Vojić Markovic and close this circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11583	We're talking differently, I'm talking about it, you're probably having a hard time getting a certificate. Of course the standards are very high, they should be, but I haven't invented who's legally competent to give these reports and monitoring. So it used to be like that, the law changed in the meantime, I don't know if it's going to be changed, I really don't have a problem with who's going to make a concept of protection, who's going to do monitoring. I have some other concept, it's not even an agency, but right now it's like that, the law is like that, and I really don't know what would be the problem with what you and I are talking about. High standards are set for some other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11584	Thank you. Vesna Rakonjac, one more replica, and then we close the circle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11585	It's no problem, just check with the Environmental Protection Agency, which is working with the Institute of Public Health, and it's the only operator and for the use of the station they've set up for our internal parallel system. Just one more thing I forgot to tell you earlier, not one single penny from the fund has been paid for monitoring the Public Health Office. No single dinar has been paid from the public health agency. Only what was agreed with the Ministry of Environmental Protection was paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11586	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahović, Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11587	Thank you. Amendments and additions to the law under discussion are proposed in the National Assembly for two reasons. The first is that in the members of the Air Protection Act stood everywhere, in certain members, the Environmental Protection Fund. The moment you abolish the existence of the Fund Protection Fund in September, you must have all the other regulations, which in any member of the law mention the now non-existent institution, to bring to the National Assembly for amendments and additions. That's the first reason. Another reason is the existence and introduction of competition on the market of measurement, certification and so forth, and I have no objection against either, nor against other changes, to achieve the objective. The proposal that came to us abolishes the articles where it was written – the Environmental Protection Fund, and says – there are payments from the budget. This is the problem, which is what we are proposed to do as changes and additions is not solved, because even now they could go out of the budget and now the agency could get money to service and measure air quality, according to the report and by everything that we exchanged with the representatives of the ministry on the Committee on Environmental Protection, payments have stopped. So either someone decided to stop paying out of the budget voluntarily, it's not about the minister, of course, because she can't make a decision about it, means that he broke the law or there will still be a lack of funds that the polluter pays for and which are meant to be spent to protect and improve the environment. Our amendment is, of course, with the support and the amendments that DSS colleagues have proposed and it would be wise... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... by the ministry that it has accepted, therefore, our amendment contains only a note that payment from the budget is made on the basis of the revenue-side funds collected under the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, and, in principle, the polluter pays, in order for payment to be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11588	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Minister Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11589	For a very short time, this principle – a pay polluter – is certainly a principle under the Law on the Protection of the Environment. It was natural, you yourself said, because of the reconstruction of public finances that and all that we're going to do now, not only these changes and additions to the Air Act but also some others that will come, everything where the fund appears, etc., will certainly be removed. I point out once again, it's not a happy solution and we're currently working on how to overcome this problem that definitely exists, about how we're going to finance everything that's going on in the area of the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11590	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11591	And in what you're looking for a solution you'll have our support to protect and improve the environment, but that's not what's going on in this room. The polluter paid for both September and October and November and December. That dinar didn't make it to the users. You know what this debate looks like? Like Duško Radovic when he says metaphorically: "If you have a little problem, make yourself a bigger problem. Small problems are successfully solved by major problems. If you haven't finished school, get married. If you don't have a job, have a baby. ". So, our wish is that chapter 27 of legal fluids and a lot of work that various people have invested in political parties, institutional mechanisms, all for the last eight years since the Law on the Protection of the Environment finally entered into force, that it does, and that it does not. If you see Oliver Dulic as an excuse, if someone is seeing Oliver Dulic, it has nothing to do with the Environmental Protection Fund, it has to do with safety, but we don't talk about it. We're talking about the problem we've created and we want to solve it, no matter what, who, from anyone from the ministry or from the Assembly, thought about Minister Oliver Dulic. He's not the problem. The problem that his family has and he's personally completely separated from this. We have a common problem and we'll see it together in three months, in six months. It's not natural to have so much misunderstanding for an amendment colleague and a colleague from the DSS. If you won't accept the DS amendments, I understand, it's an emotion, but don't let their amendments get hurt, they're good amendments. The fact that we support them, here, will not support them, just accept their amendments, because they improve the law, allow for a real principle – the polluter pays – to be transformed into an improvement and to protect the environment. You can do it, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11592	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11593	A few things, let's start with emotion. No emotion. It's an interest to protect the environment, to move forward and do something better than they did before. It's an interest and it's a task. When you talk about the Environmental Fund, I'm afraid that you were in the place of anyone who was supposed to take over those commitments made in the Environmental Protection Fund in the previous period, which is 7.5 billion dinars, there is no budget that can at the same time pay off everything in either two, three, four, five months. Secondly, the record you're talking about, that no one gets the money, absolutely not true. I made a commitment today to deliver a report to all the parliamentary groups on what has been paid so far, because I think you should know anyway, so we don't come to this debate. But certainly, there must be both certain priorities and a certain order, because as I said, those obligations made, especially those made during the period of the technical government, from the moment of the technical government to the moment of forming the new government, were made at an incredible rate, I was simply astounded. Whether only contracts were signed every day and certain obligations were made, that's what the problem is. That's why I told you that priorities were made and payments are definitely going. I said, the only problem I see is whether it was called the Environment Fund or the Serbian budget, I see slowness. It's all slow to do, slower than I want to do, and it's gonna be settled anyway. I think I've somehow managed to respond to what you've said so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11594	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11595	It would be a good idea if this solution were better, but if it were a better solution to abolish the Environmental Protection Fund, we wouldn't be sitting here talking about amendments to the Air Protection Act. That's obvious. He can't do both. It's the wrong thing to do. I, not that I don't want to believe your word, want to participate in the process of building trust in this institution, because this institution is important. I know how few allies, as an environmental minister, you'll have anywhere, first at the finance ministry, then in other sectors. Your first ally here, in this building, the Committee on Environmental Protection and all of us MPs who are, I'll tell you about the others, and the others if they think they're saying about me, they're certainly experts on this area. We're not your enemies. If we look at us that way, no one will be a friend of protection and improvement of the environment in Serbia. Everything you're going to have to change in other laws, we're going to have to go back here. The report on what's for September, October, November, December, paid, will arrive and will arrive. It's not the most important problem. We're not interested in accusing you or the finance minister of abuse of official office, of purposeless spending of money. We are interested in the development of the environment, in applying Chapter 27. There is no thing I will not do in dialogue, in compromise, in the proposal, that this will be proven both to you and to all of us who are working hard on environmental issues. This isn't a better solution. Write down a bar that is a dinar, so that at least with that member you can tell at the Ministry of Finance, while waiting for someone to pay for your contracts – it's from the law, or you can adopt an amendment that has been submitted by DSS colleagues. It's important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11596	Thank you. Minister Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11597	I cannot agree with you that the amendments to the Air Act have been made precisely to remove the part that is related to this, or to delete the Environmental Protection Fund. The amendments and additions to the Air Law have been made, by emergency procedure, in order to have the basis to adopt four other regulations, to adopt a strategy for air protection, to adopt a national emission reduction programme. I think that's the essence of these changes and the addition of the Air Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11598	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11599	Dear Chairman, I find this topic extremely interesting, especially in Article 9, where fellow Members have submitted an amendment, with one motive – a pay polluter. Before I say a few sentences about it, let me say that protecting and improving the human environment is one truly life-threatening topic. But there are many factors that can be included, not to cleanse Serbia, but to prevent it. I warn you that in the previous period, we really twisted a poster that we could see every day. It's not about cleaning up Serbia. Let's not get dirty on Serbia. We totally turned it around, 180 degrees. If we put it in kindergartens, primary schools, high school, colleges, working organizations, local communities, we wouldn't have the "Let's Clean Serbia" action in one day, but we wouldn't need to clean it in one piece except for these big contaminants and special contaminants. I'm sorry that there are many regrets here for the former Ministry of Protection and the promotion of the human environment. You see, the minister did say how she would handle herself in the current ministry, but I must say that through this ministry, and we are witnesses, certain actions that are not appropriate, not only for the MPs, but for every citizen of Serbia. Since there's been a lot of talk today, let me quote the state auditor for environmental protection for 2011. He said this way -- that posters and billboards with messages "Let's Clean Serbia" cost more than half a million euros, and ads in one daily list are the same for making the site "Let's Clean Serbia" 25,000 euros. It's a quote from "Politicals", 23. 09. In 2012, page 7, state auditor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this assembly of 21st and 22nd. 09. In 2012, here, among us, one of the former ministers said, "The Environmental Protection Fund has been unintendedly used and turned into pre-election activities." It's a finished quote. I am truly sorry that some MPs have not been informed that this is precisely the ministry run by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, for the first time in Serbia's history, and you could see it, in one place are all the projects from her ministry and all of this has been found in one book. To that end, ladies and gentlemen, potential investors from the country and the environment and representatives of the international community have been convened. I'll quote a sentence from that rally, Mrs. Mihajlovic doesn't have one, but I want you all to see how much the ministry has done in a short time: "You have projects, all in one place. Here, therefore, investors will no longer need 35 consent, but five and will not be negotiated in four eyes." A close quote from a meeting that was recently held. In the end, this is not a matter of one ministry. Protecting and improving the environment is a matter of all ministries. Most directly there should be tied to the Ministry of Education where, within the framework of curricula and programs, from primary school to university, every teaching class for at least two hours a year, or one hour, we would talk about protecting and promoting the human environment. Then we wouldn't get air pollution at this rate that we have today. Why don't we do it? So let's look at all the factors that contribute in some way to environmental pollution, so let's do some kind of comprehensive analysis and make a propaganda of the alleged signs of protection and improvement of the human environment across all the factors in our social community. In this way, we will contribute to reducing the pollution of our environment at least. I'm saying that there is no special ministry, and possibly a fund to look at, as the minister said, for the very benefit of unintended spending on funds, to have control. I can quote here five pages of non-purpose spending, but it's really not the goal today. It's a matter of other organs. Our goal is to improve the environment, and that is why this law is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11600	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, I see you're in the system, but let me inform you that your MP group is out of time. I can't give you my word. Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, you can. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11601	You see, I think you've injured a 27th member who cares about the respect of the Rules of Procedure. There is currently a debate on the amendment that I have submitted, among other things. The amendment was submitted by Mrs Teodora Vlahovic, Mrs Gordana Komic and I. The amendment was addressed by Mr Atlagic and, as far as I can see, did not support the amendment, explaining and giving a particular argument. I'm guessing he didn't go off topic, because you would certainly have warned him. Since you didn't warn him, he was talking about my amendment and that's why I think I have the right to explain why this amendment should be voted on. Mrs Gordana Comic's discussion was obviously not enough to convince Mr Atlagic and therefore I insist on the right to replicate and explain why this amendment should pass. So we're currently discussing our amendment. Let me convince Mr. Atlagic, because he obviously misreads what we have proposed with the amendment. We didn't mention the Environmental Protection Fund anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11602	Mr. Mikovic, allow me to explain to you the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, because if three MPs have submitted an amendment, the right to speak for up to two minutes has one MP. It's regulated by the Rules of Procedure. So, if your parliamentary group has time, you would have the right to use MPs' time to further convince others to vote in favour of your amendment. That's why I can't give you my word, because your MP group no longer has the right to speak. I'm really sorry. Anyone else want a word? National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11603	I thank the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, for some time it is difficult for me to translate all this into a female, dear minister, perhaps it is the easiest thing to say. We in the amendment to Article 9, we present some things and I am glad that an esteemed colleague before me has discussed everything he has said to me has led me to conclude that we are beyond and above all necessary to have a single Ministry of Natural Resources and the protection of the environment. I don't know how he came to the conclusion that he didn't need a ministry, when everything he said led me to conclude that we needed education in schools, in kindergartens, in higher education institutions. Of course, we need a single ministry of management of natural resources and environmental protection, but let's go back to the means to protect and improve the environment. Part of this explanation regarding our amendment is quite clear to us because it refers to infringing their definition of a fixed definition. But why wouldn't the operator have two obligations? The question that has been being raised here since the beginning is - why should the Government, not to say the Ministry, because this financial resource is no longer in the ministry, why do you have no obligation to local self-governments established by law, and it is not a good will of the finance minister, because there is no right and law? (President: Time. ) Let me just say to an esteemed colleague, here he is in the Ministry's report, Kruševac, the Environment Protection Agency very often does not exceed, but Smederevo 46% during the year is highly polluted, Obrenovac 35%. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11604	Thank you. Mrs. Rakonjac. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11605	Let me just say thank you to my colleague. I know there's a report, professional services have done it quite correctly, and there are other reports from the Ministry of Ecology. It's just that local self-government is doing a good job. And this year, enough funds have been allocated to protect health. That's why the values are as they are, since Kruševac used to be an industrial city, now it's not, but we'll get it back to the way it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11606	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11607	You see, article 27 has now been broken because when it comes to my amendment, or our common amendment, you do not give me a replica, and you give Mrs. Rakonjac a replica, not from the time of the parliamentary group, but you give her a replica. Is this the same relationship with the MPs? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11608	Mr. Mikovic, thank you, but you need to follow closely, like me, a session so you can accuse me of hurting the Rules of Procedure. So, in his presentation, Mr. Karic spoke to Mrs. Rakonjac about her presentation. Please, I'm following you closely and I'm trying to be in the process of everything that's going on. I don't think I've broken Article 27. Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP Ivan Karic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11609	Thank you. I didn't mean to say you were doing the wrong thing. I just didn't call her directly because it's illegal, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11610	Mr. Karic, you mentioned a colleague and her previous exposure, and she has the right, on the basis of your interpretation of her exposure in some way, to report for the replica. Please, let me decide on the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11611	I don't know what you don't understand. I'm not contesting the line you gave her.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11612	Mr. Karic, I have not challenged your right, I have answered Mr. Mikovic for his violation of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask all MPs to follow the session closely. I don't know what the problem is. Do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11613	Chairman, I want a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11614	I gave you the right to a replica, please, I'm listening. Sign up again to keep you going from the beginning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11615	Thank you. I just said I didn't call her directly because it was forbidden, and I mentioned her exposure and you gave her a line. Right? Is that okay? Thank you. In Smederev, we really have an excess of 46.6% and it's a highly polluted environment. In Obrenovac, we have 35%, and then 30% at the second measuring station, and 35% at the third measuring station. That's why it's important, this isn't about public health and it's not about protecting health, it's about protecting the environment. Obrenovac and Lazarec, for example, have no money to separate from the health care budget, but too much money is generated to protect the environment because there are pollutants that disrupt the environment and on the territory of Smedereva and on the territory of Obrenovac and on the territory of Lazarec. On behalf of these local self-governments, we ask that their money return and be spent on the environment, protecting and improving the environment. In that sense, it was an amendment, but we accept the argument in that part that we're not changing the terminology, because we've changed the terminology and we think it's more appropriate when we say "pollution generator" because we know what they're thinking. This one of yours is a little bit wider and can be interpreted twice. We don't mind that interpretation. The key question is: why do you, as Government, because you have abolished many laws that are dedicated to local self-government to protect the environment, have no obligation under the law, according to local self-government, to return funds collected from environmental pollution compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11616	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11617	As I have said several times already, while this debate is taking place, of course the funds will be partly given to local self-government. I also mentioned the example of Belgrade. It can't be affected by the Republic, it's about the city government, when you already mentioned the Obrenovac. Or what was the obligations of the previous ministry and, in the end, I think that these are also obligations of this ministry, regardless of what the money is in the budget, this is one government, it will certainly be regulated. As far as this concept is concerned, that you have introduced as a new, simply, such a term is absolutely nowhere. For that reason, we cannot accept your amendment. So, in no practice the term "generator," as you called it, the pollution emission generator simply doesn't exist. I suppose the argument was clear enough to accept that it could not enter into amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11618	Thank you. Mr. Karic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11619	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is exactly the key question all the time that no one gives an answer to. In 25.9.2012, the Law on Local Self-Government abolished the original revenues of local self-government, based on the protection and improvement of the environment, i.e. All funds collected from contaminants in local self-government territories are not returned. They're not obliged to return to local self-government. Allow me, the state is governed by laws and regulations and something has to be a commitment. It can't be a good will of a minister, who may not be here to sign because he went skiing, not where he made the ski resort, but where the ski resort is nicer. It's not a ski resort at the top of the mountain, it's at the bottom of the mountain, etc. When he goes skiing, why doesn't he learn where ski resorts are made? This is about you removing local fees as the original incomes of local self-government. On behalf of local self-government, I ask that their money be returned to them, that all the money that has come to Belgrade's territory has been passed on and transferred to the Obrenovac municipality and the deal has not been violated so far. I regret that no one has reported from colleagues from the ruling coalition in Belgrade to explain how the Environment Protection Secretariat is doing well. I think he's doing well, but I'd like one of them to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11620	Thank you. Minister Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11621	I would like to remind, by forming a new government, a reconstruction of public finances was made, which was necessary, given the difficult economic crisis we have entered. Because of this reconstruction, I would say that the way money is now practically distributed is centralised, in that sense better and more controlled. That, I trust, is quite clear to you. No one has disputed that local self-government won't get their money, as you say, neither slow it down nor the government slows it down, only this time control will be much better. Maybe it's slower, but control for me might be even more important. So I wouldn't talk about it any further, because I've already told you a few times about local self-government. When you mention the City of Belgrade, you talk about the Secretariat, yourself simply, how can I tell you, I don't know how you can tell that the Secretariat works when you mention the Obrenovac on the other hand as a place that absolutely doesn't get the money. He doesn't get the money just because it's centralized by the city government's decision. So, I'm not sure that this secretariat is doing so well, when the most difficult black hole in Belgrade and all of Serbia, Obrenovac, does not indicate as much money as it needs. So that's also a question we can deal with. After all, inspection services, the ministry will deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11622	Mr. Karic, I'm closing the line to allow someone else to come to the floor. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11623	If you'll allow me with all due respect when it comes to Madam Minister, here's what I've given myself the right to make one here as you wish, call it, maybe even a correction. It bothers me too much, both me and many to explain to someone where their money is? The question is, how do these money be spent, arranged, to whom do the bills go? That I'm right about the events behind us. Madam Minister, I'm sorry, I don't think I'm correcting you, but this termology -- where some money is, I think it's already deplaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11624	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahović, Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11625	Although you probably didn't give Mr. Karic a word, no matter what he calls it, I am reporting for my amendment, or our joint amendment, and I agree with the minister. There's no time. There's no time. This law has to be followed by an emergency procedure. We don't have seven days, otherwise it's going to fail. It's all gonna go away. When we propose that the deadline foreseen by 1 January 2015 and to be 1 January 2014, it cannot be accepted. Now I don't understand what the real truth is, is it really true when the minister says the problem is slow, that everything is slower than it should be, that I have notes, that I have exactly what she was saying. On the other hand, when we propose that what is on 1 January 2015 should be moved for 1 January 2014, that what is provided for underlegal acts, strategies, air protection on 31 December 2015. We don't have seven days for regular procedure, an emergency law to get the sublegal acts through practically the beginning of 2016. For these other sublaws I suggested, let's not have six months until September 1st, let's wait for the vacation to pass. But I can't agree that the limits and everything, it takes a year to figure out what should be in those acts. I have such a situation specifically and experienced in Panchev that when the state did not do its part in time, that as the mayor of the time, I did what was the state's jurisdiction and that within less than six months of the state's right then.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11626	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11627	Let me remind you, your minister has been late for a year and a half, he's been late for a year and a half, don't get in my word, because I've waited neatly for everything you have to say, she's accepted all the theatre and I like it. So for a year and a half, the previous minister was late to adopt a strategy for air protection. That's the first thing. That's why we're in a situation right now, among other things, to change the date with these amendments and the amendments to the laws. Unfortunately, it would be much better if we had that strategy already. Furthermore, whether you have never done a strategy or you have not participated in it, or have not entered enough into the story about what an air protection strategy is, then it is quite clear to you that it is not only a matter of one ministry, one environmental buffer, but also that there are energy strategies and traffic strategies, such as major polluters, infrastructures, and god and agriculture. So, completely multi-resorial to say so. For this reason, even this deadline that we have put into the law is not a period that is longer than any other deadlines in any other law where strategies are made. I'm not saying it won't be much sooner than any of these regulations we've given here. When you speak in such a way that we have given amendments and additions to the law by emergency procedure and you stress it as a terrible thing, I have to read it to you one more time, if you don't know why we're actually bringing amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act. Not only that strategy as one strategic, as one system document, but we will, among other things, adopt regulations and this regulation on the emission limit values of polluting substances in the air and stationary sources of pollution other than combustion plants. That's one regulation. Second Regulation - Regulation on the emission limit values of pollutants in air from the combustion plant. The third Regulation – Regulation on the handling of substances that damage the ozone layer as well as the conditions for granting import and export licences. The fourth Regulation - a regulation on the treatment of hydrochloric gases with a greenhouse effect, as well as on conditions for granting licences for the import and export of those gases. The fifth Regulation – a regulation on the certification of persons carrying out certain activities related to controlled substances and certain hydrochloric gases with a greenhouse effect. The sixth regulation – a regulation on the identification of maximum national emissions that will allow us to create a national emission reduction plan. Therefore, it is eight documents that do not know which is more important. And let me tell you one more time, for this reason, the law went by emergency procedure, and the strategy is something we're not going to change over and over again, but when we bring it in, we need to respect it, and it needs certain implementation programs to come out of it. I believe it will be sooner, but I also know it's one of the most important documents to be brought. I think that at least you were invited to comment on that because your party who led this ministry was once again a year and a half late, which is why we even have notices of certain bodies because we haven't dealt with the air protection strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11628	Mr. Mikovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11629	You're my minister. There is no other minister in charge of this area from you. It's a lot of people who have been following my previous engagement in the field of environmental protection know that I've asked for the speed of action from many of your predecessors. That is why I believe that if you listed here who is the sublegal act you should bring in and you said you would do so by 31 December 2013, and this is in the proposal of Article 10, where I propose that this deadline be reduced by 1 September 2013, precisely to speed up the procedure. The fact is that when the Law on the Protection of the Environment was adopted in 2004, when the state did not do its part within six months, the then mayor of Pancheva passed the Regulation on episodeal air pollution, meaning emissions, i.e. emissions, i.e. emissions, meaning how much polluting matter is present in the environment, does it. To this, the ministry did not declare itself at the time, because then the Institute for Health Protection, i.e. Public Health, did not declare itself, but at Pancheva level it was valid. That is why I believe that if one local environment can reach such a document, then the state, government, ministry, all of them still have the resources to get to the limit values and to do sublegal acts in the earlier period, not wait a year, especially considering that the strategy is expected to assist the Energy Sector, which is yours, and, secondly, the Ministry of Transport. Believe me, the minister, who is known to end things before the deadline, if you can't ask him to do it before the deadline, I'll ask him to do it before the deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11630	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11631	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, aside from which the minister was late, who was not late, but wouldn't really hurt to move those deadlines a little bit, especially because it's a very important area, such as environmental protection, i.e., in particular, air protection. However, I would focus on the reasoning of this bill and on the reasons for the law and the objectives that are achieved by this law. For these reasons and objectives, we do not see a real picture of this bill because the position 1 of these reasons refers to compliance with the Constitution, in paragraph 2, we are talking about chapters, in paragraph 3, we are talking about amendments to the law on the budgetary system, in point 4, we are talking about the reorganisation of the system of compensations that make up the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, so that, in fact, two things arise from this reasoning, which is that there really is no real concern for air protection, and financial problems are seen. Obviously, that was the real reason to submit the bill. So there are financial problems, given that such an unfounded removal of a good environmental fund has been made. So I'm not talking about personal solutions and those who ran that fund, but simply, you can tell from the consequences that came from that decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11632	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11633	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I did not get the right to reply, although the lady came in, said what she had to say and got out of the O.R. She's gone. Just to remind this lady that children in Smederev, Obrenovac, Kostolc in Pancheva, Bor, Lazarevec are born with obstructive bronchitis, with various obstructive lung diseases, and probably from where she comes they are not born so often, and then she asks me why I mention money. I mention because more than 300,000 citizens suffer the pollution of the largest polluters, from Smederev via Kostolac, Lazarec, Obrenovac, to Panchev and Bor. But let's go back to the amendment and the term "oper" and "stational source of pollution". It almost makes no difference. You said there was no pollution generator anywhere. If we could translate more freely, we could get to the same translation. All right, it's no use changing the whole law and part of the argument is fine, but just so you know, the City of Belgrade can't transfer what you don't pay. So this government doesn't pay money collected from pollution fees and not transfer it to local self-government units. Therefore, it does not transfer them to Belgrade either, and then Belgrade can't transfer what the cashier took away from him, it cannot transfer Obrenovac. The chairman probably doesn't like...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11634	Time. Whether I like it or not, time's up. (Ivan Karic, from the place: You can't deny me time because of this. Don't get me, please. If you want a word, you can sign in, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11635	Thank you. Article 11 otherwise lays down the deadline of 30 June 2013. That's about six months from now. This is the deadline for submitting requests for obtaining consent to perform air or emission quality measurement tasks. We believe that this deadline, given in the Bill's proposal, is six months, and too long, and we propose that the deadline should be shortened and the deadline should be 31 March 2013, so in two months. In response, you're saying it's too short to collect the documentation needed to obtain this consent. We believe that what you say doesn't stand, because two months to collect documentation isn't a short period, it's a long one. After all, I was also inspired by the minister who said that the slowness with which environmental problems are being solved, so here is the contribution of my parliamentary group, that this procedure is not slow, but that it is shorter and that it is two months from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11636	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11637	Not six months left, as you say, until June, but five. This is the end of January. There are a lot of documents that have to be attached. Experience shows that, unfortunately, two months is not enough. For this reason, the deadline was set for June. This time we've been based on experience, because now we're being applied for. I believe there's a desire to make it faster. I'm the one who always will, but, simply, experience has shown that it's not possible now but to do it in two months. For that reason, the deadline is longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11638	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11639	Thank you. I was close to accepting these deadlines that the amendment promoter stated. These are deadlines for operators doing independent air pollution measurements. However, the minister explained this and I think the deadline should be extended, but those measurements must be correct. So, not to come to the position we found, to find an abandoned industrially powerless country with polluted large cities, such as Smederevo, Belgrade, Obrenovac, Lazarevic, Bor. So these measurements have to be monitored, because they're either more powerful industries or the pollution in certain cities is great. We have a rich and fertile country with poor people. We have a shortage of industry, polluted air, soil and water. What I'd like to ask is who's gonna do the right measurements, say, for the companies I've already listed in India? So, under very suspicious circumstances, we're given ecological consent, so we have total air pollution. If they're doing something on their own there, if environmental inspectors don't do it, I wonder what happens to the recycling of lead accumulators on the waterway where wastewater is released directly over the regional water supply? Under number two, it pollutes both air and land, by referring to the city's dump, where the winds carry it and polluting both air and land. Who's going to carry out these measurements, whether they're going to do it on their own, or if they're going to send an environmental inspector to the Ministry in accordance with their powers, to determine if it's true what I'm saying. Also, I wish the former government had done this more honestly, that environmental protection funds were used from the Environment Fund. Anyway, over half was spent for different purposes. The measurements have not been made and somewhere these funds have been directly used to pollute the environment. I will quote Mr Dinkic, who said that some companies are subsidized to import second-hand batteries and tires and to process them and thus further endanger the environment. And I'm also asking, who's going to do the measurements for the zinc plant I listed, who's going to control the Knave Waste Management project in India, for which 25 million euros have been withdrawn, and we don't even have a slaughterhouse there? It's almost amazing why money was used, or money was withdrawn from IPA funds, state money, etc. I also want to ask, what about the ones in the press, air pollution from dusting planes, because there's talk of aluminum, barium and other harmful substances? That's what falls like a spider on the ground. Who's gonna do those measurements and how, since we don't have a plane lab? Are we going to let those who fly at high altitudes, which is confirmed by Swedish politicians, do pollination and reportedly cool from global warming, and how are we going to control it? I'd like to know what's wrong with HAARP, is he related to those planes or not? In the end, I hope that we will not deal with environmental protection in the way that the former regime did, by destroying industry, they protected the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11640	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11641	What's a magic word, which didn't work in the previous period, is inspections. Service inspections are now completely different and organized. I believe they'll be much better and more equipped. They're doing their job, and now I can say that a new inspection has been done regarding the Zac mine and everything that's been going on with the battery. We will refer to the other parts of the inspection and we have already set out to make some arrangements with the Ministry of Health, because some of the things that are happening on the ground and inspection reports suggest serious problems that occurred during the previous period, without the inspections responding adequately, either with their report or with certain reports. On the other hand, even the state didn't react at that time so that it would solve the problem. The problem with Rabbit is one problem, there are other problems. The inspection services won't work anymore, I can't say everyone, but most of the people who worked in inspection services simply had other interests and other arrangements. It is now an interest for the environment to be healthy and for citizens and children to breathe fresh and clean air. In that sense, you have, not only by law, our obligation, but also the promise that it is one of the most important parts of how the Ministry of Environmental Protection will function. Inspections under number one and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11642	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the next item of the agenda – REFERENCE ON THE SPECIFICATIONS ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON PAYMENTS IN THE STATE AUTHORITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES As the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in voting day, decide only on the draft law in general. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back in 15.45 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11643	Ladies and gentlemen, we're starting work. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Trade pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the light of the search in detail on the draft law of the 5th agenda, besides the representatives of the promoter Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Dusan Protic, Ljiljana Stankovic, Deputy Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Marijan Rističević, Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Zoran Babić and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. You have received a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing amendments to the Trade Act and as far as I can see, only 16 amendments were submitted, of which the DSS submitted 12, and the rest were submitted by representatives from the SNS. I am simply surprised that the other parliamentary groups had no way to contribute to improving this change and supplementing the Trade Act. I wonder if it means that we are doing everything in the store, whether we are content with both the state and the traders and the consumers? I would say that it certainly is not so, that there are many dissatisfactions and that there could certainly have been many more amendments, that is, when we started to change and supplement this law, we could have opened up some more chapters which, as well as as how our trade was hampered. I'll just say for a little while that I also referred to the situation at the store in principle. We know that over 180,000 people are employed at this point, but we also know that over the last four years, the number of employees has dropped 15%, traffic is dropping from year to year, over 30% has dropped, and that in 2011, we have 55% of the trades that have been dealing with losses. That doesn't mean we're all good at the store. That's why we at the DSS tried to try as hard as possible to point out some changes and additions, because this law actually didn't have any major changes and additions. There was more of a technical set-up of the law itself. As for Article 1 of this Act, we have tried and amended it here, so that Article 2 which primarily explains the meaning of certain terms, where the definition or the institute of an expert evaluator is deleted in point 8. The expert assessor shall be either a judicial expert or an institution with specific knowledge from certain relevant areas. We felt that a judicial assessor was an important institute to be left with and with an article. 64th and 65th, to which we have also submitted amendments. However, you, Minister, said in an explanation that since the new bill changes the way goods are sold, concessions and destructions taken away, you said in one position that the ministry will, in the future, determine the way and the storage and sales and concessions of confiscated goods. We believe that you will also have to install an evaluation institute, because someone will have to determine, if we sell confiscated goods, and we said that we sell it publicly through public competition, they will have to set at least that starting price. He'll have to determine whether the goods are for sale or not. He'll have to determine whether or not he's a slave for destruction. Certainly, that sublegal act of yours will contain all that, so there'll be an appraiser installed somewhere else. Therefore, we felt that there should be no further point 8 of the expert appraisal, and that point 9, which you have suggested, where the manufacturer's point of view of the trader remains point 9, and that the other points in this article move 10, 11 and 12. That was our explanation for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11645	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanić submitted to the 5th amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11646	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, of the 32nd existing Trade Act provides that for the performance of certain jobs in the trade of employees, they must possess adequate knowledge and skills, i.e. to meet minimum requirements for professional training. In your explanation, and you have proposed as proposing and this member is deleted from the law, you have stated that this will simplify administrative procedures, that you will reduce the costs of traders. I ask you once again, Minister, we disagree, because we believe that this member of the law should remain in the law, why do you think it will make the procedure so easier in the future, and why is this so excessive member of the law? Why am I telling you this? Practice shows that in hypermarkets or some major markets we have departments of white technique, that you have nutrition, textiles, and these are certain specific jobs, specific actions that still require certain expertise. The trader, for one thing, is a skill and someone should have a gift to be a trader, but as this member of the law says, for certain jobs, we think you should still have a certain school, that you are trained professionally to be able to perform. All of this will also affect the quality of the service. I can ask you a question, too. Let's just say, when you go shopping at the store and go to the fresh meat department, will you be better served by a butcher who's been trained for it, who's taught and knows that he distinguishes between the categories of meat, counseling you in the right way, asking you what you're preparing and telling you what's best of which part of it you've been taken or someone who's been through some training and doing that job, so he's not educated for it? Then why all the professional schools we have? We do have professional schools with a long tradition – Trading School, Agricultural Schools where we teach butchers, bakeries, and these are really wonderful people, professors who have great experience and who carry their knowledge to their students with so much elana. I don't think there's really any need, and it's no bother to put them away right now and wipe this out of the law, but to keep it. Or, simply to change our education system, to say for those vocational schools that they are not so necessary and that all of this can be achieved by some informal education. Once again, I ask you to think about it and ask you once again for the sake of the public and the merchants, all those professors in professional schools and children who teach in professional schools, to leave this behind. I don't think that's going to cause such a problem in the practice of businessmen, i.e. Merchants when they choose their employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11647	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11648	There are three reasons why we have not accepted this amendment, although your proposal is fully in place from the point of view and the profession itself, and if you will, and the contents of the law itself. Last time I said that, we had a dilemma about everything that you said as objections. Those dilemmas will remain. However, we estimate that some arguments against acceptance have passed, among other things, and this amendment. What are your reasons? First, what certain areas in the store already regulate these conditions. We've cited an example of work in apothecary institutions. You know exactly what qualifications you're looking for. It will remain for other areas, without us norming it in this trial law. Another argument is that we left the market, more specifically to the competition to do it ourselves, instead of what we're going to do with one legal solution. You've set a good example of the butcher's example. If a trade chain requires five butchers, it is certain that they will seek this qualification, not a builder or carpenter, but a professional person, probably with the proper experience. So you're absolutely right that a certain qualification is needed, but the difference is whether or not we're going to prescribe it here in the roof law. If we would now prescribe this as a legal solution, then it means adopting a sublegal act to determine this area closer, and that would produce certain implications – what about existing employees who are already working in trade? Does this mean that there would be turbulence, a change of requirements for requalification? We are objectively afraid that this would nevertheless produce certain consequences for current employees in trade. The right to tell you, it existed as a solution in the previous law. That sublegal act was never brought in. I don't know what the real reason is, but I'm guessing, fearing the implications of passing that sublaw on to those who are currently working in the store.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11649	I thank the Minister. The word has a People's MP, the Soul of Morchev, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11650	Just what you just said, this isn't what you suggested, so now you have to regulate, but this was already in the law that was in force. Article 32 had already provided that certain jobs should have certain skills, employee skills. I worked in one of our companies, and I worked in the human resources sector, and I know from experience what it looks like. Of course it's in the interest of the employer to have the highest quality employee. Practice shows that they really do work in these departments and that they mean a lot. That's why I don't see any reason to remove it from this law. I'm saying this will cause problems for them in practice if they don't, if they have an unquality service. Believe me, there are enough butchers and bakers on the market, and qualified merchants with certain skills that they need to work as merchants, and of course they don't exclude all the others who want to work in the store without having to. It's just a part of where you need them. It is said here too – for certain jobs you need to have certain knowledge. Once again, I would like to point out to you why we should, and how we are at all now, set ourselves up towards all those teachers, according to those in professional schools, if we are in law away from the need for certain expertise. Then let's change the Education Act and change that system, bring the needs of the economy into line. This turns out that we're monitoring the economy and we're harmonising with it. Then let's say we don't need those professional professions, we follow the market. Now you have a lot of informal education, various educations, and I think we're losing to quality. As a country, I don't think we should lower our education and our education to that level. I say once again, I don't see why we should delete this, if your experience has shown that this is a rule of problems in practice. You may convince me, but I mean, I'm saying again that I've been working, I have a personal experience about working in this business, and I don't think that was a problem. Once again, I'm trying to convince you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11651	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment with the correction of 24 and 28 January 2013 was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government has accepted the amendment in the basic text. Corrections to the amendments have not been made by the Government. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy adopted an amendment with a correction from 24 and 28 January 2013. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction of 24 and 28 January 2013 is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11652	Just one addition. We had a cabinet session just before the start of this session, and the government accepted this amendment with a correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11653	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11654	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So that we don't just explain those amendments that we haven't been accepted for public reasons, why not explain this amendment that the government has accepted, as well as the minister, and we thank you anyway. Article 37 The law on trade was provided for a complete record to monitor the goods to be kept and to be present at each sales facility. Now, one good change of law predicts that the record will be available at that sales facility that applied to the ministry. Since the position of the document is deleted, we have found it appropriate to correct that amendment, so that attitude would now become attitude 5 and closer to it – the minister is making the content, form, way of keeping and place of keeping the records referred to in Article 1(1). It was our amendment and I thank you for accepting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11655	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11656	Thank you. Mr. Minister, in Article 9. The draft law in the case of a declaration, where goods in the retail trade were found to have a declaration containing information on the name and type of goods, composition and quantity, as well as other data, in accordance with specific regulations and the nature of the goods, and particular information on the manufacturer, and it stood – the country of origin, is now changing and standing – the country of production, or imports. We believe that this is a good change, but in paragraph 5, which is added to this article, it is said – as a country of production, or imports, within the meaning of Article 1 of this Article, the European Union may be listed if the goods are produced, or imported from a Member State of the European Union. We say in our amendment that this position should be changed and it should read - as a country of production, that is, imports, within the meaning of Article 1, it is not allowed to specify transnational formations, so as the European Union, short of the EU, or examples for the Central African Union, etc. You know how, if there is a country code on the declaration where a particular product is produced or imported from, it is often the name of the country and the quality label. Our consumer in Serbia is used to when we buy home appliances if it's "Bos" we know that "Bos" comes from Germany, if it's cosmetics or perfumes we know that it comes from France and then we're sure that behind the price and behind that product there is a proven quality. Namely, these companies... Among other things, we can cite our own who have some brand they've been fostering for decades, and that brand is famous all over the world. When our manufacturer enters the store, he turns the declaration and sees that the product he wants to buy, that the country of production is primarily... I even think that I should have put in the amendment – the country of production and the country of import, not to – that is to say, the country where the product and the country from which the product is imported, because it does not matter when the country of origin of the EU only writes. Don't mind some new EU members who came in yesterday. I'm not sure if our producers are buying a traditional good product from Germany, if it says the EU, if it's a mixer, to make it simple, it's for us women's tools in the house, whether they'll buy it if it's produced in Romania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic or if it's produced in Germany. We believe that in the declaration, the EU is clouding a lot in terms of the quality itself, which should be present first and foremost, and thus the quality follows the price. When you look at what the price is, you immediately turn to see whose product it is and say that the quality follows the price or – I still don't want to buy it, I'm not sure if it's produced in that country that has a hundred-year tradition and cultivates its brand. That was the reason I submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11657	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11658	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the amendment that paraphrased a fellow of mine yesterday from the opposition and apparently he's the one who wronged the law, not my fellow MP. It is a member who, after Article 5, adds the 6th position - the previous position will not be applied in the case of an EU breakdown, but will, as a country of production, or imports within the meaning of Article 1 of this Article, be managed by the country in which the goods are produced or imported. Why did I propose this amendment? Because it is in the previous position as a country of production, it is not an EU Member State but an EU country where the goods come from. Given the crisis in the EU, given that they do not have a single fiscal system, given that Britain is at all times threatening to step up, given the crisis in Greece, given the economic crisis in most EU member states and that only in 2022 will we be EU members at best, and that some European politicians such as Jelko Hacin are making unsaved jokes by saying that Serbia will join the EU during Turkey's presidency, I have proposed this amendment. The government turned him down and said he's hypothetical and he's dealing with conjecture. And the Budget Law is an assumption, the assumption that we're going to raise certain funds from VAT, etc., but I won't complain too much. If the government does not wish to accept this amendment allowing for the long-term implementation of this law that we do not have to in the event of an EU collapse, which may fall apart before the SFRY because there are no elements that the former SFRY has had, if this law falls apart, will not be enforceable. If the government doesn't want to accept this, I will withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11659	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11660	I'm just going to say for a moment what were the reasons for not accepting this amendment. First of all, the EU is a single market with a free protocol of people, goods and capital. Secondly, as it was a requirement for merchants operating in Serbia, to cause them additional costs, because when they produce goods in one place and then import them into Serbia and other countries, then they would have to stick some special labels that differ from labels that also foresee the possibility of writing as a country of production, or EU imports. Therefore, these were the reasons why we did not accept this amendment. If the EU falls apart, we will also change this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11661	The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11662	We understand the minister's explanation that this was the basic reason why you gave this solution. But I remain in it and immediately to say that I agree with Mr. Risticevic, you have well predicted, we should still keep standing like this – the country of production, the country of import – the name of the country. Who knows what's going to happen to the EU, especially by the time we get to it. I'm sure I'll vote for your amendment. Of course, we can't just accept the argument that because of the common market where the free flow of goods, money and capital is freely ruled out in some way we deny our consumers, because we are primarily here to protect them, not to see who is producing the goods and where the goods are being imported from the one they buy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11663	Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11664	Let me explain. This does not mean that if the trader wants to place the name of the country of production or imports on the declaration. We leave this as an option for those who have production in one place, who export these goods to several countries and so that they do not have to make special labels for Serbia, or declarations, so that they can also quote the EU. The choice of traders remains free to indicate the country of production, i.e. imports.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11665	The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11666	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow Members, I am sorry that the minister is even commenting on this amendment. I don't know if he even read it. He is generally from a parliamentary group that, the fact that he stands for the EU today, and we have heard from the amendment's promoters that he is cheering for it to fall apart or not to enter before 2022, and that is something that speaks of the consistency of his policy, immediately reacts to the Eurosceptics, and that is something that is not the subject of this law. I stress that it is dangerous to attach greater importance to these amendments at all. I'm going to make a joke, and I'm going to say that maybe as a parliamentary group of DS, we could introduce one rule in the next period that every law that's very bad puts the amendment and add, as a member here has been suggested, that in the event of the collapse of this unfortunate coalition, we can consider that the law will not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11667	I must say that you have actually expressed a replica of the presentation of Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Marijan Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11668	Ladies and gentlemen, I've tried to deal with a real situation. It's not my fault we're late and we're coughing for the EU. I recognise European values. I don't speak for the SNS. My client is the People's Peasant Party. Don't stick my amendment to the entire assembly. That's one thing. Secondly, it is not my fault that we are coughing for the EU and that as a year of our entry is now marked only in 2022. I haven't run this country in 12 years. If you had been less involved in the robbery of citizens, you would have been more concerned with European values and standards before entering the EU. But you had a lot of work to do. You have led to the naked skin of the poor, and you have covered it with European ideas, and therefore we are late for the EU and hence this amendment that deals with the hypothetical situation. I'm going to say that this possibility is open to decay and I'm going to say that since the government doesn't accept this amendment that I'm going to withdraw it. It's not my fault we're not EU members. It's the fault of those who led the country. I can't be guilty. I've been working the country. I haven't done politics in the last six, seven, eight years in parliament in the way that the party of the previous speaker was engaged. If it's someone's fault, it's their fault. I really don't know who rules this country? Probably Martians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11669	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11670	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should go back to what the subject is or what is the essence of the amendment. I wouldn't comment on what Mr. Risticevic is talking about, although I can see he kept that old relationship to Jelko Kacin. I don't know what his relationship to Jelko Kacina is like, he's thrilled with the energy of Vukic and Dacic. It's probably the same kind of mockery he's talking to about some other of his statements. Let's get back to the amendment. I must admit that I am not at the end of the clear economic logic behind these amendments and this amendment by Mr Risticevic and the amendment that has been discussed before. I think that's the way of thinking, of course, legitimate, but that he is somewhere, in essence, deeply opposed to our country's economic interests. First of all, let me not bid, I'm not sure if you mentioned Bosch or any other mixer manufacturer. The fact that this is Bosov's mixer, which is produced in another EU country, e.g. in Hungary, it doesn't mean it's a worse product than some original German brand whose name we don't know, which is produced on German territory. There are no standards that would necessarily guarantee that goods produced on German territory are more of a quality than they are produced in some EU member state that has recently entered. Secondly, if you think about it this way, does this mean that customers, potential customers of the "Fiyat" produced in Kragujevac, in some third markets should ignore buying goods from a country that is not an EU member or Serbia, therefore, is not with such a tradition as Germany, and that they are looking necessarily for a model produced in Italy's territory? That's what economically, I would say, and it's politically behind the arguments that you used for this amendment. This second is, of course, a hypothetical situation. Therefore, the reasons are of a practical nature and neither Eurofanatism nor Euroscepticism should be evicted there. I think a lot more about quality speaks of the brand itself and the name of the manufacturer, some of his procedures that he guarantees, than the geographical area in which the product is manufactured, and we'll agree, it's usually just made on a particular territory. I think it endangers what is ours, unfortunately, but it is so, one of the few or only comparative advantages at the moment, which is the possibility that on our territory, with some cheaper labour force and some other cost products produce certain products and that it is actually a tendency to benefit us, rather than to harm us. You will rarely find the most famous, traditional world branding that most of its production binds to the country where the headquarters of the company is or where the nationality of its founders or owners is. Such a situation is rare in modern production and trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11671	The word has been given by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11672	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not say that I am consterned, nor that I am shocked, nor that I am astounded by certain contents of the anti-European amendments to that political party that allegedly advocates Serbia's entry into the EU. That's what the Beja rhetoric says, but it doesn't speak the rhetoric of logic. Here there is an elemental ignorance of what it is actually a domestic and what a foreign product. Is the foreign product the product that packs Serbs, Serbian citizens, who work at perhaps the "Phillips" factory in Svilinco? Is the foreign product of Coca-Cola packed and manufactured in Zemun? Is the foreign product "Henkel's" powder packaged and manufactured by the citizens of Kruševec? Is it, after all, a foreign product of a "Javor" shirt made by Ivanjica workers under the former brand "Dolce and Gabbana", under the former brand "Armania" or is it a product that fills the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Does this mean that when this sheik comes from Emirata, so here he opens up some dairy that's going to produce some brand called their brand, that it's going to be products that aren't welcome on this market? Does this mean that it will be a product that should not be bought and that we should look into that product because it may be written in Arabic? Of course, when you cross the path from leading a donkey to a government building called, what was called a donkey, was it younger, there was that text in the paper when two leaders led a donkey to the government building, and it was called the Young One, so they put a leader in the middle, because the leader always goes into the middle, and they stood left and right on his side, to support the government where another man who is called, perhaps the same, then you have a problem. You know, medicine defines it as a split personality, which sets up an unpleasant diagnosis, and for which it is in charge, as one of my colleagues, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, said last night. But here I have something called stenographic notes, something kept in library rooms, and I call on all colleagues who have memory problems to go to the library and read what they said about this same law when they were opposition, and what they say today when they rule. I'm just quoting, about the amendment, this is another tragic law proposed by DS... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Milivoevich, leave what was who when he spoke.) Go back to the amendment. ) Thank you, Mr. Arsenovic, but the reminder is the mother of success. (President: Save Mother's sciences for outside the Assembly, and here you are talking about the amendment. ) Then I'm going to have to organise a party political school for these forgetful ones, so I'm going to honor your request and I'm not going to talk any further about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11673	I ask the People's Messengers to throw out offensive words from the dictionary. I assume you'd like to pick up the replica, Mr. Ristichevich?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11674	By amendment. I'm a proposer. That's my amendment, if you haven't forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment has dealt with a hypothetical situation. We lived in a state that fell apart. I fear that some of my colleagues are more sorry for the fact that the EU can fall apart than the fact that Serbia is falling apart. They're more concerned with this other information. As for some other things, he didn't honor me, he decorated your president. I don't take that for a negative value. So you weren't that many Europeans... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Risticevic...) You've allowed... (President: No, no, Mr. Risticevic. It's a replica. I'm the amendment promoter. This is where it was... (President: Let's leave the EU...) There were qualifications here... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11675	You have to listen to me, so I'll give you my word. Please leave the EU falling apart. That's not the subject of the agenda. Go back to the amendment. I'm not gonna let a debate run in that direction. Go back to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11676	My amendment reads: "The previous position will not apply in the case of EU decay, but rather as a country of production, i.e. imports, within the meaning of Article 1(1) of this Article will be led by a country where the goods are produced, or imported". Therefore, it is not the same whether the goods are imported from Greece, Cyprus, Germany, etc. When something is imported from Germany, then we know it's Germany. So, the amendment talks about it. You let my predecessor say what he wanted. He was finally talking about some jackass. In respect of him, I'll cross him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11677	Mr. Risticevic, you know very well that I warned Mr. Milivojevic about each other and he gave up. Does anyone want a replica or an amendment? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11678	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that this discussion also includes parliamentary groups, at least when it comes to the amendments that we have submitted to the DSS, Mr Marijana Risticevic, I just don't know why they haven't made a little effort to take more seriously the amendments to the Law on Trade, so that they have their amendments, simply not to be misunderstood, that this discussion on amendments doesn't take place on a different level, some that are Eurosceptics or Euroentusian or Eurorealists. The essence of the DSS amendment is to protect the consumer, to have, above all, the name of the country of import or the name of the country of production on the declaration. It is up to the consumer that when he turns the declaration around and sees what he's interested in, he will move on and wonder if "Bos" mixer is produced in Romania if his factory has "Bos" there, or if it's produced in Serbia, all one thing. It's up to the consumer to decide. It's up to him to have the right information and it's up to him to decide, not to move the explanations of ours, at least our amendment from the DSS to another field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11679	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11680	I thank the chairman. This amendment is pointless because the content of this amendment has sparked this debate over whether or not the EU will fall apart. So we can't help but talk about it because it's an amendment. Second thing, why is he pointless? Because he's carrying something that the lawyers call -- alleative fact, therefore, something that can only happen. I suggest, since the applicant of the amendment has no support in either his party or the ruling coalition, they may have been able to put in some other fact that is not alleative, therefore, it is quite certain, which is to replace the same thing in your amendment with words – in the event of a safe breakdown of the ruling coalition. Then all this would make sense, because there's no uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11681	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11682	I'm telling you again, Mr. Risticevic, your logic is wrong. You said again - all that is produced or what is imported from Germany is guaranteed quality. I'll give you an example. This national socialism that is occasionally imported by the next German example is not exactly what's best. So it's not the logic that should guide us. You're saying that someone, aside from this remark about who was worthy, who wasn't worthy of making amendments, but you're saying that someone would first look at the country of production and only then watch the brand. I think in real life, the situation works the other way around. It is very likely that today 95% of Serbian citizens would think of Estonia as a country where non-quality products are produced. I have to tell you that Estonia is a country that is a wonder in economic terms and that many companies that produce high-tech products have decided, for various reasons, to bind their production to that country. More importantly, not only because or not mainly because there is a cheap workforce, but because the country has thus transformed internally and thus regulated its relations, that it does not have to give 10,000 euros of subsidies to the open job today. Once again, I would like someone to prove to me in what way you have gained confidence that something produced on German territory is more necessary than information that something was produced on the territory of Estonia or Serbia or any other country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11683	Thank you. Marijan Rističević. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11684	As an amendment promoter. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid the meaning of this amendment has been ignored at all. It's no use insulting Europeans. For the EU's values, I have stood up for myself, and today I stand for European values in standards, etc. We cannot deal with non-EU countries unless we reach those values. There are EU achievements to be respected. Also, I must say that Serbia is currently a country in Europe on probation. We need to take all the facts into account. I'm not saying only the former government is responsible for this. I claim that I am not the most responsible for the possible disintegration of the EU. I didn't print the euro, I didn't make the debts, I didn't break the budgets like Greece, etc. It's a reality. Serbian citizens have the right, in my opinion, to know from which country of goods they come in the event of the EU's collapse, the community of states. I repeat, it is not the same, if that happens, whether the goods come from Germany, whether the goods come from Cyprus, whether the goods come from Greece. It was the meaning of the amendment, that we know the origin of the land from which the goods come, if what I wrote happens, so if there is a fall. SFRJ fell apart, many formations fell apart, there are others, the Euro-Asian Union, etc., there are other unions, and as a country of origin, the country where the goods are produced is listed. So if we now recognise that it is the EU, we will not admit it if the EU falls apart. You accuse me of not believing enough the EU. It is not my fault that fewer and fewer citizens believe in what only 41% believe in the EU. I wish he believed more. Unfortunately, I am not responsible for that fact, the one who ruled is responsible. I didn't rule, the Martians didn't rule, I guess we know who was responsible. The point of the amendment that I'm going to withdraw, because the government says it's hypothetical, is that if it falls apart, we know the country of origin where the goods come from and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11685	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11686	I hope we at least agree that this is not an amendment to whether we should go to the EU or not and whether it will fall apart or not. The bottom line is, I repeat again, I think Mr. Djuric gave a pretty good argument here, in the global economy. The emphasis of an individual country loses its meaning. What is said, if someone imports Bosch from Hong Kong or some other company, that product is less valuable? On the other hand, we have not received any comments from the Consumers' Association on this member of the law, because they are also aware that this declaration, objectively, neither improves nor loses any consumer rights, because consumers are protected not by this declaration, but by supervision, control of other inspections, from the market to other state, sanitary and other bodies, about the quality of the products. That's the point. So I think here, except that we're reducing the costs of those traders that we care about, who have asked for changes to this law, consumers absolutely lose nothing. I therefore believe that any further discussion on this subject will not contribute to consumer protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11687	Thank you, Minister. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11688	I thank you, Chairman, but the minister sort of said the essence of what I wanted to say, just to add a few sentences. You don't buy Apple because it's made in China or because it's designed by Americans, but because it's Apple, because at the time of global brands, it's branding. Let's not underestimate our employees who here in the neighborhood, 20 to 30 km, also have a Bosch factory. Therefore, branding is something that is the main goal of every major company. If it creates a good brand, the manufacturer will buy it because it believes the brand, because it trusts the technology process of the plant that monitors the production of that brand, not because it's produced in this country or that country. I would ask Mr Risticevic, not to announce the withdrawal of the amendments, but to withdraw the amendment, because this has turned into a debate about the EU, and it is not the EU's essence. The point is whether Serbia will get big brands that will be sold in the world, whether we will once have a brand that is really a brand in Serbia and can be produced in Thailand, as someone here said, whether Mr. Djuric or someone else. In Thailand today, Indonesia, the largest number of world producers are in confection, but no one asks if they are manufactured in Thailand or Indonesia, but they are buying because it is a serious world brand.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11689	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11690	I thank Mr Ljajic for this very thorough and serious explanation and explanation, but there is no longer a question of whether to vote for this amendment or not to vote for this amendment. In fact, here we see that political masks have fallen and that one political group has pushed its member out to tell us that they don't actually believe in European integration anymore and that they are no longer a European political option...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11691	Mr. Milivojevic, please do not interpret the views of the other party and the opinions of the other party. Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11692	So this amendment, which says that I do not view the EU as an individual view of the amendment's applicant, I interpret it as a trial balloon of a political group that needs to see how we will react to that announcement. I am absolutely convinced that Serbia will be...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11693	Mr Milivojevic, please, you cannot, on the basis of the opinion and amendment of one MP, give an assessment of the views of the entire parliamentary group or of a particular coalition. Therefore, I really kindly ask you to return to the amendment, without political assessments of what the political party is thinking and what policy it is leading.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11694	I thank you, Chairman. I am absolutely convinced that Serbia will be part of the EU and that our products produced here will eventually have that label "made in Serbia", but will be written and produced in the EU. Does this mean that now we are sending a message to the markets of countries in the environment that the moment Serbia becomes part of the EU these people should not buy our products because of some mistrust? I think they've gotten all the conditions that this amendment, not only not to accept it, but to withdraw, because so many logical explanations why no amendment should be accepted long ago we haven't heard in the debate. We've even seen the dilemma of the amendment bearer that he's thinking of pulling it himself. I think that's good thinking, but once again I'm saying that I'm only experiencing this as a test balloon as we react to the Euroscepticism of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11695	Thank you for coming back on the subject in two final sentences. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11696	I'm reporting for Mr. Risticevic's replica. I won't even persuade you to withdraw the amendment or stay with it, but I don't understand your logic. The more you explain it to me, the less clear it is to me. I'm allowed to have a problem with me. So you're telling us it's okay that as long as the EU exists, it's marked as a country of origin, that is, EU production. There is no problem for citizens to know from which member states the product comes from, and if the EU falls apart that it then writes the country of production, which will happen without that provision, because I really cannot imagine the situation that some 30 years after the break-up of the SFRY on its products continues to mark – the country of production of the SFRY. The same is true of the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11697	Mr Đurić, and please leave the former Yugoslavia and the EU's disintegration, it is the right of the MP to state his position. Why do you now explain his opinion and his attitudes? Go back to the amendment. You have made a constructive contribution to the debate of the amendments so far, and I ask you to keep that level. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11698	I was just talking about the amendment, Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11699	Don't speak directly, please. That's my request.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11700	You said to me, "How can I answer you without speaking to you personally?" It's kind of an elementary courtesy and a rule of Serbian language, but, here, I'll skip that rule if you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11701	No, you can talk to me, but I thought you weren't addressing the MPs directly. That's what I was thinking, and you can come to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11702	What I wanted to say, and I was only talking about the amendment, is that those who produce, and especially in EU member states, are economically rational and it is mostly a private economy. None of them will put on their product a label of community, superstate, state, superstate, superstate, call it whatever you want, unless it no longer exists, or unless it sees its economic interest in it. This is the only thing that is economical or economic criteria for any kind of thinking and decision-making. I'm sorry again for using the walkie-talkie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11703	I thank you for respecting my suggestions, and I would like to continue to do so. The word has a People's MP, Marijan Risticevic, so let's bring in, if possible, the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11704	For the fifth time, I have to say, because of the government's argument that it's a hypothetical amendment -- what happens if it is, that I withdraw that amendment. To pull it, I have to write it in writing. To do it in writing, we have to finish the debate because I have another amendment, fully aware of what I wrote. The only thing I wanted to do was make it possible for the law to work in the event of a possible EU collapse. This is what everyone jumped protectively for, that I have no idea who's protecting what anymore. I don't see why there's a problem with this amendment. Someone doesn't mind that we import goods twice as much as we export, but they have a problem with an amendment that I wanted to apply the law uninterruptedly in case of an event. So I withdraw this amendment. To do that, I have to do it in writing. To do this in writing, the debate has to end, because I have another amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11705	The MP will withdraw the amendment in writing. I think it's pointless to discuss him now. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11706	Mr. Chairman, just because of the care of our beautiful Serbian language, I expect the withdrawal of the amendment to be carried out in writing, and of course to be written.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11707	The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11708	You should have given me your word first. I called before my colleague Milivojevic. That's exactly what I was going to say, that the amendment should be in writing to be directed. Don't do "literate" anymore. My colleague, Milica Vojić Markovic, spoke about it all day yesterday. Let's cultivate our good and beautiful Serbian language in the right way, properly speaking and legally. So, in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11709	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11710	I agree. I always welcome that ambition to protect our language, but then it's in writing, it's not in writing, but let's end this in detail. Obviously, Mr. Risticevic will withdraw the amendment one way or another. But Mr. Risticevic is mixing two things. One question is whether citizens trust that Serbia becomes or should become an EU member. Mr. Risticevic, Serbian citizens have no doubt that, as a rule, products coming from EU territory are better quality. Mr. Ljajic is here, he will confirm to you what percentages are, what is the extent of our trade. More than two-thirds is with EU member states. People are not buying EU products because they are Eurofanatics and Euroentusians, but because they are rational. This has absolutely nothing to do with politics and attitude towards the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11711	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11712	The Democratic Party of Serbia has seriously approached an analysis of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Trade, and we have indeed looked at the amendments we have submitted to be constructive, not to enter into some political debates, or to wake up some debate here, to come down to who is a Eurosceptic, who is for the EU and who is not. That's what this amendment of ours will tell you now that I'm going to explain. With this amendment, we have proposed that the country's name is not allowed to be named in the declaration, but must be the country's full name. So if this is already a previous amendment, if you thought we had any intention or something against the EU, this amendment shows you that it was not our intention. It is intended to protect all actors on the market. Of course, we should protect the interests of traders so they can operate in the best possible conditions, but we should also protect consumers' interests. We should not go into whether the consumer is more important to the brand or the country where it is produced and imported from, whether the consumer is looking and deciding on it, but only that it does not need to be confused, it just means that it has the information that it needs. Now we can really get into the controversy here whether it matters to me which country a particular brand is manufactured or not to you or not, or whether the same quality are products produced in Germany, and their brand is, or in another country. Let's go back to why we're here and what this law provides. It is to protect all market players and give them all possible information. We think that if abbreviations exist about countries, that consumers can come into confusion and that not all abbreviations are clear, such as CAR, as the Central African Republic, even the NRC. Does the consumer think about whether anyone can think of it as a country of China's production? That is why we have submitted this amendment, as before, only to allow consumers to have all the information they need and then to decide, on the basis of the information they have, whether they want to buy a particular product or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11713	Thank you. The 10th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with a correction, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11714	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about an amendment that, in Article 10 of Article 8, following Article 7, which reads that the provisions of this article are not applied to sales through public competition, as well as to the sale of works of art and antiques. After those words, I added the words "or the sale is done on the liquor court." It's about pointing out the prices. So it's not to be expected that someone who works as a salesman at a liquor store, where the space is very small and cramped, has this obligation. With that in mind, I have also suggested this solution, that drinking merchants do not have the obligation to highlight prices. With that in mind, I'd like to say that they are very rebelling because they remain in the obligation of the fiscal registers, even though they are working in very difficult conditions, outside, etc. Many artisans and entrepreneurs have been cut off from the fiscal register, and they have not. And now they have it, as I interpreted the law, that they must highlight prices, even though as merchants they work on drinking gigs. Given the conditions in which they work and the tightness of the space, I thought that they were excluded from the rules of highlighting prices on products that they trade in very narrow space and under unfavourable weather conditions, often and under the clear sky. Unless the Government accepts this amendment, of course I will withdraw it in writing or in writing. When Friedrich Nouma scholarships me, I will certainly learn all these words correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11715	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11716	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, sometimes it's enough to be educated by the state of Serbia, so that in the second grade of primary school, you can learn what the children know and know whether to say written form or written form. But when we talk about this amendment, it may be very important to look back on the question of what is actually sold at the market market gigs and whether everything that is sold at the gigs should be sold on the market and whether everything is the place on the gigs. I'm just going to make sure that you can find fresh meat and chickens flying at 40 degrees on the gigs, that they can be found on very unconditional and unstandard terms, goods that are easily broken. I don't think there's supposed to be any price on that stuff, or that stuff on the counter. On the other hand, if we're talking about the intention of someone submitting amendments he knows will be refused in advance, isn't that the same man who accused us of doing the obstructions of the Assembly and these sessions? What is the purpose of submitting amendments for which the applicant himself does not vote and withdraw in writing, since he has a problem with the scholarship to learn whether it is written or written? I don't know if Vuk Karadzic has a scholarship, but sometimes it's not bad to stop by the library on the congregation floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11717	Replica, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11718	I thought about the amendment, I made myself clear. So, I didn't ask for illegal trading, especially not foods that are very corrupt. That's what one of my colleagues was doing, so he poisoned half the Krusheve. Now he finds it appropriate that he talks about perishable foods. So that's not what I suggested. I suggested what I thought was a good idea. So I don't have to think with my government's head. I'm trying to think for myself. I'm the president of the People's Peasants' Party. I'm trying to push through some amendment. If it doesn't fit most of them, if it can't pass, it's my right to withdraw it or not to withdraw it or to dispute it from some who think they're representatives of the DS, it's actually just called that. So, I'm going to call, since my predecessor always refers to folk proverbs, there's one that says - you can buy him a hat, but you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11719	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11720	Mr. President, Article 11 of the Bill changes the position of the 4th member of the current article 43, and would read – the local self-government unit prescribes conditions for determining the working time for trade on its territory. This means that local self-government would be given the right to set working hours for all commercial forms on its territory. We have proposed our amendment that this Article 11 be deleted, i.e. to remain in Article 43, the same position that has been in force so far, where it is said that for certain only commercial forms that the municipality determines and for a particular type of goods can determine working time, as well as that it has the authority to determine working time in the days of national holidays, in the days of certain fairs, etc. However, since the amendment of the Committee on Business and Trade, which partially corrected this position 43, has also been made available to units of local self-government to determine time for all trade forms, it has again introduced a provision that local self-governments re-determine working time for certain commercial forms, depending on the types of goods, to determine time in the days of national holidays, in the days of fairs or in some tourist cities in those specific days. We welcome that this member has been partially changed and the more clearly defined here where local self-government can still function. But we're still staying with our explanation, if we give local self-governments to set their own hours, that we'll have a variety from the community to the community. So each one, based on his decision, will determine the working time. Is that standard working hours from 7:00 in the morning to 9:00 in the morning? If we want to, and I see that through the law, by altering fundamentally with some members, we want to bring in large trade chains, they often have an obligation in their economic justification studies to state and what time it is. So if they want to go to the King, Vršac, Kragujevac, Vranjevac, however, they will have to make additional efforts, to see what municipal decisions are like when it comes to working time. It will, of course, require both a certain amount of time and a certain amount of cost, so it will sort of delay, or we will sort of lower some kind of ramp, to eventually get to that data before. We believe that with this attitude, which you have left behind again, if we understand this new amendment to the Committee, where the Government will determine closer conditions, or criteria for determining working time. We hope that you will have some local self-governments, and you have also noted that you should not forget, that there have been abuses in many local self-governments because they shared their territory in areas, so some trade chains, which they wanted to stimulate, gave different working hours, and some of them who did not want to stimulate and how they refute their working hours. However, we think that this amendment could have been a little more complete when it comes to this change by the Trade and Economy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11721	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11722	As you said, we have defined ourselves as a medium solution, to sort of meet, given the argument that you made the last time today. So far, it has been indicative for the minister to determine the working time frame, yet everything is left to local self-government. Our original proposal was to transfer everything to local self-government, and now we have one solution that I respect and these dangers that can arise in the event of this new solution being applied. So I think that by accepting this amendment, the Committee has come out practically to meet this request of yours, or the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11723	The replica of Mrs. Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11724	Minister, I've certainly been obliged in some way to make an argument about our original amendment. In the meantime, we have received an amendment from the Committee on Business and Trade, and we can say that we are in some way satisfied, that we have found a medium solution, and we hope that this will have a real reflection on local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11725	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The government has accepted the amendment. The word is sought by the chairman of the Committee, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11726	Thank you. The chairman, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues, in the previous debate, we heard that this amendment was created as one consensus of all the discussions that were on the board. So it wasn't just the previous speaker, or speaker, that our colleague sought this solution, but some other members of the opposition parliamentary groups. We are glad to find that middle solution in some way, and I can say that we unanimously adopted it. So he's the one. Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Trade Act is amended in Article 43(4) and reads – the unit of local self-government prescribes conditions for determining the working time for trade in its territory, for trading formats or forms of trade outside the sale facility, by determining the total duration of working time and its timetable (day, weekly, monthly and annual); the time of sale of certain types of goods whose use can significantly affect public order and peace (alcoholic drinks and beer, pyrotechnic means, etc.This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. We consider this a comprehensive way of trying to really meet local self-government and small and medium-sized enterprises, these small-scale actions that require work and to be precisely defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11727	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11728	We have submitted the amendment to Article 13. Otherwise, Article 13. This is one of the key amendments to this law. This refers to the abolition of the obligation to study influences for objects that are already 2,000 square meters. We agree with you that we should remove everything that was an administrative obstacle, the costs of the merchants. As you said, this didn't come into practice, and that's fine. We think it's not enough just to erase something that's not good, but we need to see if there's any space left that's unclear that it needs to be defined. We have tried the proposed amendment that what we think may be a problem, which is the possibility of a monopoly on a particular territory of local self-government, that it can come to it, that it is still necessary to send a request, as we have seen it, you might have seen it differently, it is important that we solve this problem so that it does not remain undefined. The Commission for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Serbia, which would conduct an analysis of market participation and give its agreement to open the facility unless 40% of the participation in a specific territory has passed. So, on the territory of local self-government. When we talked in principle about this, I think we agreed that there was this misunderstanding about how to overcome it. I say once again, we agree with you that this study was complicated, that it really wasn't applicable. You haven't accepted this amendment, think about it, but I think you've had enough time to find a way for this problem to mean, the danger of the occurrence of the monopoly, that you are now regulating it with these amendments and the additions of the law now, that it doesn't have to be regulated next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11729	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11730	I appreciate the effort that DSS colleagues have made by submitting this amendment and I understand what the idea is, but I agree with the ministry's position that this amendment cannot be accepted in this form. I don't agree with the explanation the ministry gave. You went that easy way to say that accepting this amendment, or that your basic intention by writing amendments to the law, would have been to simplify the procedure. I don't think the real reasons are on that side. I think the previous provision was wrong because it was actually potentially preventing competition. Fortunately, it was only possible that its application did not take place in practice and was impossible. The Liberal Democratic Party criticised the provision so much when the basic text of the law was adopted. Why do I think this amendment intervention isn't good? Because you actually have one situation in the real world on the market and I know what the basic idea is, it's big chains, or big objects that are in us, as I would say, a little closer to the city's cores than it's common in some other countries, but we already have that situation. If you propose such an amendment, you will practically stone this existing situation, especially because your reasons, or criteria that you state are not precise enough or their assessment is practically impossible in practice. When you say the unit of local self-government, the fact that someone has 39 or 41% of market participation in the entire territory of local self-government units cannot in itself be always the reason that there is a new facility or that it does not exist. I mean, the local self-government unit is not the relevant market as otherwise spoken in law, they are not rounded up in a certain way. They're very strange, as I would say, geographical form, it's now the result of a million things. Belgrade is a unit of local self-government. Is it in the interest of the citizens of the suburban settlement that there is a large trading facility in their environment, although the question is whether 2000 is gross, at all large, but let's say that it is and to be prevented from opening such a facility, only because of the fact that by looking at the entire territory of the capital or any other place in Serbia there is a 40% participation. Secondly, I don't understand that formula when you say – if the market share of companies with newly opened object crossings. So, is this market participation before the opening of a new facility of 40 or estimated by a dream. Because if it's estimated with a new one it's impossible to do that, of course. If we have solved this misunderstanding, I generally think that these reasons that I was talking about are in favour of the fact that in this situation, at this stage, it is best to completely abolish the rule of Article 45. The law and allow for the development of competition. Of course, there are other mechanisms to establish monopolies, in fact, by abuse of monopoly, which only needs to be punished in a different way. With such a low culture in these relations and not the relative relations of the powers that exist in regulating these topics, much greater harm is any norming than the law without provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11731	Replic, I presume? Here you go, Mrs. Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11732	Why do we define it this way, suggest it goes this way? The Competition Protection Act defined that 40% of the participation of a particular economic operator in trade in the geographical market is the limit of monopoly participation. If we talk about what local self-government is and how many objects we have, we are now opening another topic, and that is, for the city of Belgrade, whether the city of Belgrade needs to have so many shopping malls. We don't need to get into it, because it's a market. Now it is arranged depending on the market -- whether more is needed in the central part, why they chose to open it, whether on the periphery or in some suburban part to open a certain store. We're talking about a store or a facility where one of the owners is. If this is, say, a particular company, it should be considered when it plans to open its facilities, that it must not exceed 40% of its participation in certain territory. Of course, if there is a need for an object on the periphery, it needs a certain trade, it can be opened by that manufacturer. So it has to be whether or not it's going to deploy, where it's going to deploy its objects. The Competition Protection Act has already defined that 40% of the participation is determined by the economic operator in trade on the relevant geographical market in the limits of monopoly participation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11733	The word is Mrs. Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11734	Thank you, Mr. President. You know how, if we start by abolishing the impact study on the structure of the market is one of the fundamental changes in this law and that it certainly goes to big supermarkets or hypermarkets, let's call it what you want, that the more often they come to some of our neighborhoods where there are none, certainly we have nothing against it. We have found here in the principle debate that there are only 5% of these large market chains in Serbia and that they should definitely be raised up wherever possible, that there are as many on the market. The fact is that Mr. Djuric says that in every local self-government, we cannot treat only the market as a whole. On the other hand, if it's Belgrade, it's a completely different story, and if it's a Svilian, then it's a whole other story. We can't in any way let us lift all the ramps. Of course, no supermarket had such an interest to come, to open up. They always watch how much the market is, how much it covers the population and the number of consumers, and then they open up. So what you're saying is, is it's a big facility, too, but we have to keep an eye on it. First of all, the intensity of our amendment was that we had to preserve small commercial formats in these smaller municipalities, simply not allow a supermarket to come and be a monopoliest, takes more than 40% of the market in these small municipalities. You know, that's what we said in the principle debate. Small shops are mostly family shops. They hire their family, five, six employees, and they are market participants, and they mean to us in small local areas. So it was more of a way to protect them somehow, to raise the ramp, to open up the markets, to remove one administrative obstacle, but also to save as much as possible, because they, small businesses, need a certain period of time to protect them from hypermarkets. I'm not saying it's not the same as Belgrade and local self-government, if that's what you can say, Belgrade and some small municipalities in Serbia that have very different characteristics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11735	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11736	And in the principle debate there were words about this provision. When the trade law was originally passed, there was a controversy. In preparation for this debate, I have seen notes and I have seen that MP Zoran Ostojić is absolutely against the adoption of such a provision. The argumentation at the time was like yours now, to protect retail facilities. But what happened? And last time I spoke about the structure of retailing by formats for 2011. On the other hand, this never came into practice. So we didn't protect them, because everyone was opening trade chains, who wanted to, if they had permission from local self-government, construction and every other permit. No one has asked, nor has the ministry formed this mall for trade, which was otherwise intended as a public agency. So there's no argument that we're protecting them, and here's the structure. So we out of ten ranked countries are in ninth place. After us is only Ukraine with the participation of the hypermarket 5%, the supermarket 24% and small shops make up as much as 53%. We are not going to protect this, nor are we going to promote hypermarkets and supermarkets in any way, except to lift one restrictive provision and give the market the opportunity to regulate this relationship. We can't protect the small shops by any provision, whatever it is. We can only ban it, but no one thinks about it. We watched things in other countries. There is no solution that the Competition Protection Commission regulates ahead and gives permission to open a hypermarket. The Commission for the Protection of Competition under official duty must react if a dominant situation is misused or a monopoly occurs. This is the subject of the Competition Protection Act and the competence of the Competition Protection Commission. If we keep this solution, not yours, but the solution that has been so far, it's the source of corruption. This means that someone in the ministry, more specifically the minister, can judge whether or not he likes some of the criteria he sets, determines whether he will give a permit or not. I see absolutely no reason to stay. There were such proposals here and during the discussion, not yours, to remain the solution that we still give consent to the opening of a hypermarket greater than 2,000 square meters. So, instead of the Ministry, that any agency, anyone, who gives that permission, we leave the market to regulate it, that every trader, at a free estimate, decides where that facility will be built, and if there is a monopoly or abuse of a dominant position, the commission certainly has to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11737	Mr. Djuric has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11738	If we were to ask now, colleagues, small businesses what they don't want, they would say – don't let more countries protect us, because most of their problems just came from what the state prescribes some way to protect them, and then turn it all into a noose around those companies' necks. Most of us buy us in small local stores. We do it in different ways. We're more comfortable. We're used to it. It's some kind of emotional relationship with the neighborhood, and it's not gonna be a fact that there's some supermarket or hypermarket or motivate us to shop elsewhere or buy in that store. It's a simple acquisition of circumstances. All of us in real life often combine different decisions when buying. Therefore, the state can protect these small businesses by guaranteeing the functioning of legal traffic, by preventing or punishing delays in payments, etc. We all know what's going on in Serbia today. Many of these small local shops actually don't work on the real market. They are almost in a slave relationship to the same large chains or to some other market participants from whom they supply goods, with which they are in contracts they cannot come out of, etc. It would be great if things were different. It would strengthen competition, but most often you can't fight life and what the market dictates. I didn't argue that it's 40% limit. If you ask me, it's even too high, but it's a problematic definition of the territory of a local self-government unit as a territory, as a relevant market, it's not possible to do so. Secondly, it's great to talk about different conflicted interests in society. One of the interests is the interests of those people who hold small businesses, those people who work in them, but there are also other interests, which are legitimate. In large chains or large shops that will be opened, some people could also work. You can't say -- it's fairer that this shop is not on the territory of one municipality, but 400 meters away, on the territory of another municipality, where you would meet this condition you set. Well, then some other people would do things. Those where the investor's initial decision would be to build an object and that it works in some way would be damaged. We're constantly taking some narrow groups, and we're ignoring what's really the key thing, something that's the most general interest. It is the consumer's interest to buy in the simplest, most comfortable way, to have the greatest choice and to decide on it. I don't see how this amendment will solve itself, although I say once again, I understand what intention is, and we can't, in particular, separate different categories or segments of the market, or trade. We have some other areas where the country's system measures, or the absence of systemic measures, are actually being built and stimulated by monopolies. In a few days, this scandalous bill of common interest in the expropriation of land for the South Stream will come, and we will talk a lot about it. Are there small traders, small suppliers, small market participants and who takes care of it, and then we will open a crucial issue for trade and for various competitions and for the development of jobs and for the functioning of the legal order in Serbia, and that is whether this government, like the previous government, has the right under the Constitution of Serbia to conclude an international contract with another country and to suspend fully the legal order of this country? In a few days, you will come here with the law by which you will have the greatest forced ransom and nationalization after which occurred right after World War II. Ten thousand plots will be taken or bought, under what prices, for people in Serbia, for Serbia's territory to be physically divided into two parts. On the left hand side, you will have Serbia's territory and Serbia's right-hand territory, and in the middle you will have a belt that will be owned by a majority by another state, or Gazprom. Just to take care of all aspects, when we are already taking care of the interests of different groups or different consumers in this country. We'll never recover from that monopoly. These dominant positions of chains or objects with two thousand or something slightly over squares will already somehow be solved by competition on the market. This is not an objection to you, your party is one of the parties that seems to support, this project, the energy agreement. This is a general remark. You can't put such a question at that level whether most of it is for something or not, because there's a sanctity of private property in modern countries, it can't be decided by the majority or by the assessment that something is in the national interest. The same goes for this case, though in a different way, and I apologize to the president on one, though, on a field trip, but I think the debate is headed in that direction, so I took advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11739	You're still connected to the subject, and I accept that. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11740	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact that we say here - the state should defend the small, or should not defend the small, should open the door big or should not open the door big and whether we should do it. You know what? The conditions for the functioning of the economy and all economic branches, including trade, are being created by us. The government, its bill of law, and the Assembly by adopting these draft laws. As DSS, we've pointed out in this article, by abolishing market impact studies, in a way, we're making it easier for large trade chains to come somewhere. We agree with that, but at the same time we put a comma and say – and let's see how we protect, not only, to say small consumers, but the whole market, so that this trade chain is not a monopoly. I only have one question, Mr. Minister. When you say that the Competition Protection Commission should react and that we gave the market to regulate it, we can agree on that, but based on what data? I'm sure someone from my community will react, i.e. The Competition Protection Commission and how will they know that a trade chain opened a mega market and took 55% of the market in trade in my municipality? Based on what data and who's going to give him that information, to respond? We simply opened the question, when we created legal conditions for the business of a particular trading format, so that at the same time we wouldn't forget some other trading format? It is our obligation, because you as a government, we as a Parliament, you propose, we adopt the law, and all of them depend on us and, of course, watch which solutions are best for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11741	The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11742	My colleague said what I was going to say. I'll just supplement her. I would like to point out again, in the principle debate, we have commended the abolition of this study and I would like to share with you one impression, as an MP whose first term is, which is that to the competent ministry and the minister for the approach he has shown to us as MPs, regardless of what we are the opposition and that he recognized our goodwill to constructively change something and the way he addressed us here today and to which he answered, in my opinion, I think every time it should look that way. That's what I wanted to share with you, and once again to say that what you've explained has been said by this Competition Protection Commission, that it should do so, and that there is no doubt about it, I would like you to respond, if you can answer who's going to respond to what the colleague has asked, if there is a monopoly or if there is a danger that it has occurred, on what basis, who is speaking, how does the Competition Protection Commission react? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11743	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11744	The Commission has its own procedures on the basis of which it reacts, according to each application, is obliged to react to another thing, what you have pointed out, although we are removing this Trade Protection Centre, which should have collected all information and formed one database in the information system, we are trying to get to that information system in a cheaper and more efficient way, which can then be the basis for the Commission's reaction to competition. Therefore, it is our assistance to the Commission, not only to be able to respond to the applications that are coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11745	National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 16th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11746	Thank you, Mr. President. Another fundamental change, if we can say so, of this amendment law and supplementing the Trade Act is that after Article 50a, Article 50a, which regulates the judicial protection of a trader who can compensate for material and immaterial damage by another trader, turns out to be his business reputation, or caused some damage. This position of Article 50a is - the damaged trader has the right to compensation for material damage, as well as immaterial damage, due to damage to business reputation. After this position, the DSS proposes another position, which is said to be a damaged trader, the competitor has the right to compensation for material damage, as well as immaterial damage and from a natural person who has been illegally engaged in trade and traffic of goods in the territory of a unit of local self-government, in which the trader is also operating. That's one change. We have another addition of this article 50a, which is that the action can be filed within six months of the knowledge of the store and the perpetrator, and no later than three years from the end of the shop, we suggest that it stand – the action can be filed within three months of the knowledge of the shop and the perpetrator, and no later than one year from the end of the shop. First, with Article 50a and this second position, first of all this law treats registered shops, small, large, medium, anyway. This Article 50a provides for the judicial protection of one registered trade operation, if another registered trade operation does, as regulated by this law, any damage. After all, the trader has the right to sue, based on a witness statement and to compensate for material and immaterial damage. On the other hand, we all know that our biggest problem is not the legal trade, or trade formats that are registered. A huge problem in Serbia is illegal trade. We talked and talked in principle, and then we mentioned that huge money, by illegal means, through trade, is turning around, that it's about four to five billion dollars or euros, however the state, through illegal trade flows alone, is losing 500-800m euros, which is a secreted tax of extra value, which is a secreted excise. So we just thought, this law didn't touch, so we suggested these changes, we'd have to call ourselves the amendment and the addition of the law. We wanted to encourage the government and the ministry here to start treating illegal trade in Serbia a little more seriously. If we had already taken the job of changing this law, to supplement it, we could and should have in this chapter seven, which is treated by an unfair competition, to open up a new member or a new title that would be called – the fight against illegal trade in goods. We were just trying to point you to the problem of illegal trafficking. It's up to you, and we're waiting for a new amendment to happen very quickly, and we're going to talk about it, where if we need to, before the amendment and the addition of the law, to consider and to make a strategy, to fight illegal trade, so that I don't talk about it too long and long now, we all know how much this is a problem, so that the law with amendments and additions comes back on the agenda, and that very seriously, with one five, six members of the Law, we're going to cover this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11747	Thank you. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No). National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 20th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No). The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No). National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 24th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mrs. Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11748	I'll just take a minute. Article 24, paragraph 1 of Article 65 states that the word "expert appraisal" is to be deleted. So a simple explanation, when it comes to an expert evaluator, can refer to the explanation I gave at point 1. I believe that there should be an expert appraisal who, based on his knowledge and experience in a particular relevant area, will assess whether the goods that have been taken away for sale, whether it is for destruction, which is the minimum price when sold when it comes to public competition, etc. Position 2. We suggest that – since the Government is closer to regulating the way and conditions, so it says – sales, concessions without compensation and destruction of the taken goods, we believe that it should be added - that the government is closer to regulating the way and conditions of storage, sales, concessions without compensation and destruction of the taken goods. So when you take away one item, you have to first know where and how to store it, and it has to be prescribed, and then the way you're going to sell it, without compensation, give or destroy it, but if it doesn't meet the criteria for selling and giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11749	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11750	We will certainly provide for this sublegal act what you have proposed in the amendment, especially in connection with the storage of this confiscated goods, and as you have pointed out earlier or in the previous presentation, we will see whether this sublegal act will provide for some kind of appraisal or who it will be, but it will be the subject of this sublegal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11751	Thank you. The 26th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mrs. Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11752	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment to Article 26 refers, in fact, to Article 74 of the existing Law on Trade, which regulates fines for legal persons and entrepreneurs in case they violate the Law on Trade, which we are talking about today. In Article 74(2) and (3), they say - with a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars, it will be fined for a violation of a legal person, if it sells goods with an irregular or irregular declaration and under three, does not point out prices or do not point out prices in a regulated manner and will also be punished for these activities by an entrepreneur of between 10,000 and 100,000 dinars. We are merely proposing to add another new position on the 4th, which reads: "If the actions referred to in point 1 (2) and (3) are not taken by the trader and do not in any way harm the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the inspection bodies shall give a warning with instructions on how to remove those irregularities". Namely, what's this about? In many trade shops, especially big ones, you have tens of thousands of items and hundreds of us consumers and potential customers who come in and everybody wants to touch something, we'd all move something, we'd go into the booth to try something, we accidentally take the label off some clothing item, or move the prices into some gondola at the store, and simply, the trader can't see that flaw at the same time. The market inspector comes along, sees the problem, there's no price pointed out by law, there's no declaration that by law and, of course, there's a dragon penalty for a legal person from 100,000 to millions, or for entrepreneurs from ten to 100,000 dinars. We simply think that in that case, when it is obvious that the trader is not guilty and when there is no damage to the budget, the trader has done no harm and made a failure, that in some way the market inspector is obliged to warn him, to give him instructions to remove that deficit, not immediately to give him this kind of punishment. We think we should have a little hearing. It's not always the merchants' fault. Sometimes we, as consumers, customers, create a problem for traders and they pay such great fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11753	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to point 6 - Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements Law on Marks pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have been invited by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, to attend also Prof. Dr. Jovan Bazic and Dr. Ivica Radović, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Nevenka Novakovic, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic, as well as the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. You have received a report from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11754	Let me just say thank you. We found out and I think it was unanimous that there were really things that weren't appropriate to one law and thank God that you remembered and accepted this, to finally clarify what was written and what was written. I'm very glad that it's finally corrected in law and I won't answer until we discuss it further, i.e. until we discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11755	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Donka Bavnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11756	I would also like to thank the proposer for the accepted remarks that have been made in the form of amendments. So that's about four proposals, or four amendments you've adopted, and in one of these last amendments I've seen that you've stated that you're going to bring some other members in line with these remarks, so the whole law on that matter will be settled. What I have to notice is that this government has some unusual strategies when it comes to the debate in principle, so the debate in particular. Yesterday, it seems to me at this very time, we also had a bill on statehood and vessel registration, so there was a Minister of Agriculture present when there was a debate in particular. He doesn't have much of a touch point with that area, but the man continued after his bill and attended the debate in particular. In principle, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was responsible for the debate. In the discussion in the principle of amendments and additions to the Marks Act, Mr. Zarko Obradovic was also Minister of Education, to say, because, among other things, the Institute of Intellectual Property. It is now the government's strategy that there is a minister in charge of trade affairs, with this strategy around this law being logical, because we believe that this area is a large part and is a matter of your ministry's jurisdiction, despite the fact that the Bureau is not in your ministry. This is one of the amendments you have not accepted, which refers to the proposed article of the 19th Amendment and the supplement. Otherwise, that member shall amend Article 68(1) of the applicable law, and that position shall regulate the issue of formal arrangements for the termination of the trade mark. Direct reference shall be made to Article 68. This is one of those changes from that group of changes where you want something better to make it clearer to whoever is applying this law. So this amendment also wanted us to further specify, add, or suggest that this position is – the request for the termination of the stamp is regulated if it contains the information prescribed by Article 67 of this Act. Therefore, the data prescribed by Article 67. In that Article 67, it is indeed clear and prescribed what should contain that request for the termination of the trade mark.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11757	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11758	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, I absolutely understand this amendment, which says in Article 68(1), is amended and reads - the request for the termination of the stamp is neat if it contains the information prescribed by Article 67 of this Act. Now I'd like to take a look at what it would look like, in practice, if we had a law like this on time. For example, it would not happen that the leader of the Serbian Peasant Party falsifies the seal of the company "Selak Zeka Company", forgers the seal of the company "Selak Zeka Company" and raises a short-term loan of 100,000 euros from Ersta Bank, attaching forged documentation, i.e. a forged insurance policy. In doing so, he forged the seal of the District Court in Valjev. I understand that the Peasant Party can make a stamp and forge it, but it would be much better if they didn't sit around all day in the Assembly and have the Assembly be their Safe House, than that potatoes that make counterfeit stamps, googles in prison. If we had a law like this, I don't think it would have happened and we wouldn't have such scandalous writings in the paper. That is why we support this amendment and support this law and I will give full support to its vote in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11759	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11760	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's kind of hard for me to talk like this while they're talking through me, but okay. Article 23 refers to a plea for violation of law. That's where we suggested that paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted. Here's why. They read so - if the injury was done deliberately or with extreme negligence, the prosecutor may request compensation from the defendant instead of compensation for the damages of item 1 of point 5 of this article to the triple amount of the usual licence fee, which he would receive for the use of the right. The following – when considering the claims referred to in paragraphs 1 and 4 of this Article, the Court shall take into account the proportion between the seriousness of the infringement of the right and the measures sought, as well as the interests of third parties. We don't think this is the place. Why isn't this place, in our opinion? Because the courts, as arranged in our country, are independent, independent state bodies and their jurisdiction is governed by the Constitution and some other laws. It's very unusual, so I used a very mild term, that the Marks Act regulates the procedure that comes to justice. It's very unusual. In your explanation, you say, and I was just about to ask – did the minister of justice see this? In your explanation, you're saying that the Justice Minister saw this and that he's completely in agreement with this. This is very unusual for us, so we'll take a look and maybe look for an interpretation. Do you refer to the Directive on the implementation of intellectual property rights? The directive is perfectly fine. It regulates that you in your legislation have an orderly procedure as something happens, but not in the Marks Act. It cannot be regulated by the Directive, it is governed by the Constitution and it is governed by other laws. I think this is the time to give up what you said. The directive, whose name is it, cannot say that you, in the Marks Act, prescribe that the court will come to justice. It can't. My suggestion is to withdraw it while it's time, these positions 3 and 4, because I think you're going to complicate later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11761	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11762	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, I think it is very important that you reconsider the amendments my colleagues have submitted to this particular member. The law on litigation is a general regulation that regulates the procedure in the area of civil and legal disputes. He regulates a very important area of evidence assessment. It's a regulation that just regulates how the evidence carried out in a civil dispute will be appreciated. We will introduce complete chaos if we also introduce it into other system laws that will then regulate the procedure and, an important thing, an assessment of evidence based on which the court, based on its free conviction, will make a decision. That's exactly the thing about this last member that my colleagues have disputed with the amendment. Consideration of the claim, that is the explicit jurisdiction of the litigation procedure and the Law on the litigation of proceedings. The Court of Justice shall take into account the extent to which the Court of Justice has adopted its decision. A law that regulates stamps enters the area of procedural law applicable to competent courts. That's absolutely impossible. Please do not make this precedent, because tomorrow any other ministry, wishing to regulate the litigation procedure, will take the right for itself to prescribe that the court will appreciate the evidence of the procedure. I understand in the part of the argument that this matter is said to be regulated, but as far as we have an announcement, a new law on litigation is going from the Ministry of Justice itself, and on the Ministry's website it is announced. I ask you to accept these amendments and order the Minister of Justice to install this provision under the Law on Prosecution. I remind you once again, it is unacceptable that the Marks Act regulates the way the judge will appreciate the evidence. I think that you will rarely find it in any country, if you make a parallel right to have something like this exist outside the Law of Prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11763	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11764	Thank you. Otherwise, this member in the current Marks Act bears the title - proceedings under appeal and here with changes and additions is quite complemented. So you have an addition to this article, about four new attitudes. We suggest that an attitude which reads as follows: "The procedure under the complaint under Article 1 is urgent". Because he's getting in the way of our legal system and the Law of Prosecution. This is very well explained by my fellow lawyer, Jovan Palalic, I am not a lawyer, but he really explained why it should not be done, and these other supplements are included. By saying it's urgent here, and in the previous position, a plea for violation of justice can be filed within three years, from the day the prosecutor found out about the injury and the perpetrator, and no later than five years, from the day the injury was first committed. I assume you've taken this from the practices of some other countries that have much more experience in this. But that's what our eyes are for, because it's a long deadline, and then you say it's urgent. It is very difficult to determine what the word means – urgent. Yesterday we had so many members where we talked about the need to act immediately, so I ask you what the term means - urgent? Someone's got three days, three months, and someone's got an hour. Such expressions in the law itself leave him rather undefined. We think this should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11765	The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11766	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 25 refers to temporary measures and readmissions 3 and 4. I read them because maybe people who listen to this today, and some of them are very much in matter, they're judges, they need to know what we're trying to explain here. If there is a risk of irreparable damage on the part of the rightholder, the court may determine a temporary measure without a prior hearing of the opposing party. The next position says - in the case of the Court of Justice in the case referred to in Article 3, the decision to decide on a temporary measure will be taken within 30 days of the date of submission of the proposal. Once again, the Marks Act interferes with court proceedings and how the court will come to justice. It's simply not allowed in our legal practice. I'm warning you again. We had one case and we had a question -- how are we going to resolve when we're quick to sign some international contracts, and I warn you that maybe it's time for us to stop by accepting the amendment, take a break, consult the minister or someone, because I think we're getting into something that's going to be very difficult for later. It's not just this problem that's showing up. We have another problem and maybe a third problem when it comes to courts. Intellectual property is an area that will be a legal area of the 21st century. It began in the 20th century, and the 21st century is a safe time for courts to deal with this problem. Serbia has no specialised courts, and it would have to be because it is a very tangible matter and an area that can easily be resolved. I asked one question by reading, preparing for this law – the water dispute "The Water". It's so terribly complicated that I don't know how it'll solve someone who's just a judge. One of my friends is a professor of law school, and I asked him this -- how does this work? He said it was resolved by having courts specialized and trained judges who deal only with this matter. We don't have that either. We don't have any dishes. We don't have any judges. Judges, as a problem and a burden, shift and waste time, simply delay the solution. By the way, let's say that in the I.P.D. in the whole police department, only 10 trained cops deal with this matter. That's inadmissible. It will be a problem that will also have to solve the judiciary. Obviously, that's the problem. We all know and understand, but what shouldn't be a problem for you to regulate something that doesn't belong to this law, I think it's being resolved by accepting our amendments. Accept the amendments and you won't have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11767	Members of the 25th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the 25th Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11768	This proposal to supplement this article is, I'll read, simply, to show you all how much it really is, to give the court and the judges instructions on how to act. Otherwise, the name of this member is evidence security. The promoter then says - on a proposal by the person who makes it likely that his right is violated or that the court will be injured can determine the security of evidence. Furthermore, the court may also determine the security of evidence without prior notification or hearing of the person from whom the evidence is collected, if there is a risk of irreparable damage on the part of the rightholder, or if the proposer makes it likely that the evidence will be destroyed or that it will later be impossible to obtain it. So this member is just a guideline to the court and judges on how to act in which matter, that you teach them how to provide evidence if a person who considers his right to be injured, or the right to a stamp, appears. Here is still a discussion of your recommendation, where you say he can do without a prior hearing or informing the person from whom the evidence is collected... So, that they'll do it. The court is a lawsuit. You have two sides, someone claims, someone defends himself, or someone sues, and until they prove who's right, those two sides are, I guess, equal. We think you should delete this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11769	The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11770	If I didn't think this was very important what I'm trying to point out to you, I'd be ashamed to report for the same thing for the third time. I really think we're making a precedent that can't do us any good. I ask you again to look at someone who deals with this matter. So, now you're saying, the title above the member is to launch a procedure to determine a temporary measure of evidence. You say, in the event that the action has not been filed within the time limit laid down in Article 1, the court will, on a proposal from the person against whom a temporary measure, i.e. the security of evidence, suspend the procedure and terminate the actions carried out. Again, jurisdiction of the court, ingenuity of the second law. It's not the power of the Marks Act. It's really not the ingenuity of the Marks Act. I wish there were a lot of people involved here, who are good lawyers, who understand this matter, but the lawyers we consulted, but the lawyers who understand what we're talking about, claim this is impossible. They say: The jurisdiction of the courts is determined by the Constitution, not by the Law of Marks, and that we do not make a ridiculous further conversation. I think it's wise to pull this off.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-29-0.u11771	The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all sitting agenda points, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, 30 January 2013, starting at 11.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 150 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miroslav Petkovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for an Encouragement Act in PORT AND RURAL Development. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Proposal for a Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, in principle. I ask the National Assembly to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – 37 abstentions – there are no, there are no nine votes, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the amendments have been adopted by the MPs: together with Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović and Kenan Hajdarevic, who proposed that a new title be added above members and members of 14b be added after Article 14; together with Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic and Zoran Kasalovic, who proposed that a new title be added to the article 27a; Marijan Rističević, who submitted to the article. 8, 15, 16, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, and 29. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the People's MPs: to Article 2, which together were submitted by Jelena Travar Miljević, Nenad Kitanovic, Jožef Shandor and Ana Novković; to the article. 7th and 18th, submitted jointly by Slavica Savic, Branko Gogić and Vladimir Marinkovic; in Art. 13. with correction, 18 and 19, which was submitted together by Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Pek; to Article 17 with the correction submitted by Zoran Kasalović; to Article 19, which was jointly submitted by Milorad Mijatović, Vesna Milekić and Meso Omerović; to Article 20, with the correction submitted by Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic; to which, after Article 28, a new title was added to the title of the member and member of 28a, who was jointly submitted by Snezana Bogosavljević Boskovic and Zoran Kasalović; to Article 39, which was jointly submitted by Mirna Kosanovic and Ivan Bauer; to the member of the 40th, who had jointly submitted the Neven Cvetićin and Milorad Mijatović; to Article 44, who submitted to the new member Meho Omerović; who, who, after the name of Glava VIII, who had been added the new member of Vladimir Marinković, as well as a member of the Committee for agriculture and the amendments of agriculture of agriculture, to the agriculture. 17 and 20, which are added a new title above members and Article 28a after Article 28. and to Article 40. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Velickovic together submitted an amendment to the law proposal. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one who is abstentioned – none, did not vote – 162 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Igic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 153 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 168 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 177 of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 178 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 180 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, no one, with abstentions, voted 164 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Ruzica Igic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 181 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstention – voted 162 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic and Petar Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 184 out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Ruzica Igic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the total 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 165 out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 47, no one, with abstentions, voted 153 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 44, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 out of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 165 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, with abstention – voted 166 out of a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 163 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by National MP Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 172 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, no one, with abstentions, voted 170 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 166, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 44, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together tabled an amendment proposing that a new title be added to the article 14a, with an amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168, out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 169 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 181, out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 187, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 154, out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 179 out of 200 MPs, for – 21 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 173, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic and Petar Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 177, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 171 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ana Novkovic, Nenad Kitanovic and Jožef Shandor. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – voted 183 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 169 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Teodora Vlahovic, Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one with abstention – has voted 161 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -31, v -1, abstention -1, did not vote 167 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, no one, abstentioned -- has voted 191 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 163 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Teodora Vlahovic, Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 171 of the total of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 166 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, abstentioned -- has voted 187 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 2, no one, abstentioned -- has voted 198 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The peoples of MPs Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new title be added to members and members of 20a after article 20a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 162 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 21st amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against - no one, abstentioned - has voted 169 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 21. The amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against - no one, abstentioned - has voted 158 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for 11 against -- no one, abstentioned -- has voted 185 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for 11 against -- no one, abstentioned -- has voted 185 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 175 out of a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic together have tabled an amendment proposing that a new title be added above members and members of 23a I put this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, abstentioned -- has voted 180 of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, abstentioned -- has voted 167 out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted the title above Articles 25th and 25th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against - no one, abstentioned - has voted 164 out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic, Nenad Kitanovic, Jožef Shandor and Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 155 out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 172 of the 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 158 of the total 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jožef Shandor and Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 175 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic and Nenad Kitanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted – 174 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jožef Shandor and Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 178 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic and Nenad Kitanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 178 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 167 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ana Novkovic, Nenad Kitanovic and Jožef Shandor. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 174 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted –167 of the total of 190 MPs, for – 23. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted – 165 of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 172 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 155 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted – 151 out of 189 MPs, for – 38 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one with abstentions – has voted –164 of the 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 176 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 165 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Ruzica Igic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 158 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title be added above members and members of 33a be added after article 33. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 153 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted –167 of the total 191 people's MP, for –24. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted – 150 of the 191 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted –167 of the total 191 people's MP, for –24. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dusan Petrovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 165 of the 191 people's MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ruzica Igic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 153 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Lasslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 182 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Biljana Pantic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 186 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 159 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 187 of the 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th Amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Biljana Pantic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 162 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – 158 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Veličkovic submitted together to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dusan Petrovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 167 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that the situation in Article 165 had taken place. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. as a result of the fact that they have become an integral part of the Bill's amendment of the National MPs of Zoran Kasalovic to Article 17, with the correction and Snezana Bogosavljevic – Boskovic to Article 20, with the correction and amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management to Articles 17 and 20, has created the need to submit new amendments to the text of the Bill's proposal. I ask that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We continue work at 12.20 hours.
