ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20776	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20778	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Dr. Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise two violations of the Rules of Procedure. We gave you a few days, which would be a folk language joke, but this really doesn't make sense. I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 87 and Article 88. It concerns the working hours of the congregation. Today we begin work at 11.25 minutes even though the session was postponed instead of 1:00 p.m. starts at 11.00 p.m. I understand the problems you're having with the government's reconstruction. I understand the problems you have to deal with each other. I understand the problems to convince each other that without some, the government cannot and that it is necessary. And I understand the protest of certain MPs who will not enter the O.R., but it is not good to see the problems and difficulties surrounding the reconstruction of the government at the beginning of working hours. You can't go to Europe with this attitude to work. It is not correct for the citizens of Serbia. It is not correct for those citizens who work in municipalities and cities where the SNS exercise power, who, when late for work, receive 30% of the salary. If you have an archaic for municipalities where you exercise authority, have it for both this session and this assembly hall, because it is not good to send this message to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20779	I just have to tell you that the session has not been postponed for 11.00 hours, it is scheduled for 11.00 hours, as the chairman, or president of the National Assembly, has the right to decide when the session of the National Assembly begins. It is decided to be 11.00 hours, because in the course of what citizens can happily follow online, the Committee on Finance of the Assembly, which attracted a large number of MPs, is on official travels, and of course, I apologize to the National Assembly. You're right if something's scheduled for 11:00 p.m. should start at 11.00 p.m., no matter what. What I can say, of course, is that it is not a matter of people being lazy or not coming to work, but of working on other committees, or other types of engagement of MPs, which is why I think it is important that the public knows it, that they do not think that these people are doing anything, but that I should say they are engaged in other jobs concerning the work of the National Assembly. I certainly agree that we should try to start right on time, and in that sense, I am asking all the MPs of the people to try to ensure this minimum of work that is important for the dignity of our congregation. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Ljubisa Stoimirović, Dejan Rajcic and Momir Stojanovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am next to the representative of the motionary Suzanne Grubjesic, Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, finance and business minister, called on the session to be attended by Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the finance and economy ministry, Nada Mirkovic, head of the finance and economy ministry and Daniel Nikolic, adviser to finance and economy. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget System. You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic, Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Dusica Morčev, Gorica Gajic, Vladimir Ilic, Borisav Kovacevic and Gorica Mojović and the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic pulled the amendment together to Article 7. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20780	Thank you, Mr. President. I am truly sorry that Mrs Grubjesic has been forced today neither guilty nor obliged to defend the law on the budgetary system, "The Ways of Serbia", the Health Fund and some other things, but we will try to explain the amendments we have submitted to correct the text of the bill and I hope that Mrs Grubjesic will respect some of our arguments and accept some of these amendments. To Article 1. The bill envisions what capital projects are, what they include, and what the interest of Serbian citizens is, that is, the dual interest of the Republic of Serbia and what local authorities say here. I don't know why this term was used. I think it's better if it was local self-government, but good. When someone comes to power, then he likes it and probably the law. I do not understand, Mrs Grubjesic, what is the interest of the Republic of Serbia without the interest of local self-government? They sometimes don't have to match, because when we work for our children in Chačka, it doesn't have to be by definition of the great interest of the Republic of Serbia, but when we build an industrial zone, it's something else. We tried this way to make it clear that, despite all these projects being built through public revenue, local self-government should be allowed to point out, in certain cases, what is their priority, to commit to building certain capital facilities that matter to them, in their local environment. So I don't think there was a problem here to accept this amendment, but unfortunately if you're able, we'll be glad, if not then we'll wait for the Secretary-General next time we change this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20781	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20782	Thank you, Mr. President. With this amendment, the LDP parliamentary group is asking to delete the introduction of a register of employees in the state administration. It's kind of weird. It would be great if there was such a register, I agree. But it can be found in other ways, and it didn't happen. So for a year, this government has been in office since you hired and hired those you wanted to hire, now you'd be making this register. I'm sure you won't make a register because experience shows that the level of state administration in Serbia is not capable of it. I don't think you'll be more capable than predecessors. After all, you are now talking about the reconstruction of ministers who were not even supposed to be ministers when the government was formed. Therefore, we have no faith that you are capable of doing so, and we will have an additional cost. You say, "There will be no expense." There's got to be a cost. No doubt there must be a cost. Remember in 1996 when Milosevic nationalised the property of local self-government. In 20 years since then, only 5% of the assets have been listed, not to mention the damage caused by local self-governments, etc. So one seemingly similar job couldn't have been done. Why should we believe that this can be done, and you'll expose taxpayers' taxes to an extra cost? That's a brief reason why we're asking this member to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20783	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20784	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Deputy Prime Minister of European Integration is here, because Article 4 is talking about adding three words, that we are counting on putting in addition to donations and transfers within the framework of the law itself, that is, this member and the "financial assistance of the EU". We think it should be deleted. Why? Because you don't need to further define this term. So far, I think, I know, EU funds have been coming in, they have been accepted by both state and local self-government through certain competitions and funds, normally, realised. I think that the issues that are being opened here are much more important than the simple and mere definition of whether we will add, within this position, EU financial assistance, which is whether we as the Republic of Serbia have developed enough capacity to receive these financial resources from the EU? That's one thing. We have so far opened several of these components from EU funds, and now we should get even more funding in some future period, primarily for infrastructure projects and for some financially much larger investments. I wonder if we've been able to use those funds by now. It's going to be a problem in the future, and if we don't do this state-of-the-art analysis, we're going to have bigger problems with bigger money. Are there any problems that local self-government, for example, but other businesses, NGOs involved in these competitions, which receive these funds and which plan to participate anyway, are these problems analysed? Do we have a record? I believe that you are certainly the right address to address this question and where we could get the right answer and deal with this question. I should also point out that only if we mention an EU term in some law and when it is adopted here in the Assembly, we immediately consider that it has already been applied. So much more and much more significant than some declarative EU reference to certain financial assistance is how we benefit from these funds. Whether potential bidders and participants in these competitions are like performers. works or providers of certain services are ready to participate, whether they follow public procurement laws, which are, in addition, a hundred times simpler than they are in Serbia today under our Public Procurement Act. We have a problem not knowing English where this documentation should be filled out in English. Then I ask the question - what about other donors, e.g. UNDP, USAID, other countries' governments? Why do we not cite them specifically as we quote financial assistance from the EU? Does that mean we'd give up their donations?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20785	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20786	Let's keep going. Point 6 defines the same thing. But I would also use my two minutes to ask Mrs Grubeshic a few questions. I'd really like some answers, if that's possible. Again the same question – how do we improve and improve the possibility of using EU funds? We all know that what donors are looking for, above all, the EU, which is now probably the most open competition in Serbia, which is a project of documentation. What does the state do to help businesses, ministries, how does it work to help local self-governments, which have the least resources to realise these activities in the design of project documentation? What about the licenses we issue? Do we have permits for all infrastructure projects? We know that when we're supposed to participate in a competition, you're always looking for project documentation, you're asking for permits, you're looking for solved property-legal relations. That's what we have to say. Is that what we've achieved here in Serbia? I don't think so. Have we cut the administration and abolished most of the bureaucracy? I don't think so. Did the Public Procurement Act just do that? Did he reduce corruption? Did he cut red tape? I don't think so. Have we passed a system law on planning and construction? We didn't. These are all things and preconditions so that we can accept the funds that come from the EU, compete and that we get and place these funds in the right way in modernising the administration, modernising the entire state. We also believe that spatial and regulatory plans should be carried out in all municipalities. I don't know if that's regulated. Do we initiate co-operation between municipalities where regional co-operation should also be one of the important grounds for access to these EU funds. Local self-government not sufficiently familiar with the importance of reforming local self-government, introducing modern flows to administrations, simply do not participate in these competitions. I think the state should be there to help them in the best way to accept these funds and to achieve something together. I repeat, the declarative emphasis that we are for the EU, and we are not doing anything, absolutely nothing concrete to accept the funds in order to achieve modern standards is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20787	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20788	Thank you. We have submitted 13 amendments to the Budget System Act as DSS. One cosmetic amendment was adopted, and the remaining 12 were not. Why? Because we think it's essential to change this law. That's the thing. You accepted that cosmetic change. It's totally fine and legitimate. We also believe that all these amendments lead mainly to the fact that the Budgetary System Act should not be amended in this way. Among other things, we thought that Article 7 should remain, as it was in the previous law, which means that in the previous law of wages and pensions are aligned with the rate of consumer prices in the previous six months. That should be 2% somewhere in October. According to the new proposal in October, 0.5%. Gentlemen, pensioners, employees, to know that this is no pension increase nor will anything else happen. It's actually freezing. We thought it should remain at this level as planned from the beginning of the year, to comply with the rate of consumer prices in the previous six months. This is for pensions perfectly fine and we need to make sure that our pensioners have enough resources to live on. However, as far as public sector wages are concerned, I am fully committed to work, i.e. to pay by effect. If someone hasn't worked properly, if you're losing it, if it's a large system that has abnormal wages, and too little results, then the wages should be reduced. We can't just go to raise public sector salaries on account of everything else, primarily business, load taxes, make citizens pay for it without actually having any results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20789	National MP Bojan Đuric is registered in the system. The LDP parliamentary group does not have time for amendments, nor time for an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. National MP Miroslav Petkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20790	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Article 9. The bill refers to commitments under the contract relating to capital expenditure, just as counterpart Bozanic said. A fundamental change in this member should primarily apply, according to the DSS's position and opinion, that the beneficiary of the funds should be the body proposing the payment of capital expenditure. Because who knows better in one local environment the problems that exist in that environment than the people who live there who are responsible for the functioning of that local self-government. We don't understand the need to involve the government in everything. If the beneficiary of the funds gives a particular proposal, let the consent of the Ministry of Finance, not to complicate, not to delay the procedure, not to be put off indefinitely, but to have people who want to build something, who want to invest the funds as soon as they get the consent, get the permits and can implement it. There are capable local self-governments that can do it in a good way. Why would the government interfere in this business, if you are already in favour of decentralisation and the descent of as many powers as possible to local self-government? Therefore, please accept this amendment to the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20791	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanić, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20792	Article 10. We planned this amendment to delete. So, the part relating to the assessment of capital projects. I would fully refer to my colleague Petkovic's story, which spoke about that the ministry, the state, the republican level should not be too involved in the work of local self-government. I don't understand why the government would evaluate municipal capital projects. Will this be an evaluation of all capital projects in all municipalities? Who's gonna do that? Is that what people at the Ministry are gonna do? Shall we take someone new? I don't understand how they're gonna do it. It is said that the ministry will also edit capital projects closer. How do we know and how? Here now local self-government comes into a situation and becomes dependent on the state. If the ministry and the minister like some local self-government, the project will assess properly. If he doesn't like it, he won't. Like a school teacher. I think that's really bad. If some people are elected to some jobs, if there's a finance department, they're all responsible for their actions and their activities. So I don't think there's any need for an assessment of local self-government capital projects. As far as public enterprises, ministries, that's for sure. These capital big projects, they have to be taken care of. Let's get out of the government and the ministry's yard, establish control in ministries and public enterprises, see what they do, how they hire and how they realize, plan and implement projects, and then go after local self-governments that neither have the resources, nor have the opportunity to realize things, and what they want to do, come into a situation where the state forbids them because they might not like them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20793	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanić, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borisav Kovacevic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanić, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. National MP Bojana Bozanic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20794	We thought, as LDP colleagues suggested in the previous article, something similar about employee registers. We felt that the Treasury Administration should not decide on these matters, and especially on the level of earnings in a particular, or whole public sector. First of all, I mean local self-government and local public enterprises. I think it's the job of the state to establish certain criteria by which it should be realised, by which it should be defined and planned, not to determine and look at each individual profit of each employee in the local self-government or any local public enterprise. If that's what this member of the law's goal is, then it's really bad. I don't think it's functional and can't be physically accomplished. Secondly, can the Treasury Administration know exactly why a worker has received a certain salary. He may have pointed out his work on certain activities. It's best known by people who are head of municipal administrations, who are heads of certain departments in local self-government and so on. I don't know if the Treasury Administration can be the right place or some other state institution that's going to say whether employment is needed in a municipality or not. The job of the state and the ministry is to set criteria and must make certain criteria for the classification of municipalities according to their characteristics. The number of inhabitants so many, so the number of employees in so many people is not functional. Investments per capita must be accounted for, the number of people coming into that local self-government. The budget per capita must be accounted for, infrastructure and the sea of other things must be taken into account. The classification must be better. You can't do these things superficially and thus take away everything from local self-government, and from the story of decentralisation we come to the classic and complete centralization in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20795	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20796	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, by amending the Budgetary System Act, you don't literally introduce any newspapers, except you're introducing a register that won't have any purpose. The fact is that by this law, by amending the Budgetary System Act, you reduce your salary to all employees by a large percentage. You literally pay workers who have an average salary of 20,000 by this law you increase by three hundred dinars. This means that employees will be able to buy two breads a month or a kilo of coffee more annually and these are amendments to the Budgetary System Act. You can say there's no freezing pay. You practically freeze wages and cut salaries with these amendments to the law. As for our amendment and the reason why the Government rejected the amendment, you say that the rationalisation and better control of the movement of wage mass in the public sector is achieved through the establishment of a register of employees of elected, appointed and engaged persons in the public sector. How can it be better controlled, registries being introduced? There are coefficients, there's a base, and it's quite clear that in a different way you can control your salary. You've done salary control that way, by cutting wages. Do you think it's big savings? Of course not. You are these additionally poor workers due to inflation, which has been further poored by over 12%. It can't give any positive effects to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20797	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20798	Article 15, which is really long, speaks of adding an article. 93a and 93b. We thought that within this article, where the register of employees of selected, appointed and engaged persons is spoken, it should not appear that the register particularly contains information about employees, elected persons, etc. It's already in the existing member of the law, so I don't see any reason to complicate or add anything. As for the remaining changes, what is, above all, related to the remaining changes, they say that I do not need, I speak as a state, so the representatives of the ministries and the government should not punish local self-government by means of a court of law. Therefore, by 30 September or by a certain deadline, they should submit all their information on employees, salaries, etc. Local self-government is really hard to live on. Some have very few resources and very few personnel, especially limited by these laws on the maximum number of employees, etc. With that in mind, we can't impose local self-government on them now, all of a sudden, if they haven't done it, but to warn them, at least to give them a 10-day deadline, so they can do something like that and correct the irregularity. If they don't do it afterwards, they won't. As regards centralised income accounting, we believe that local self-governments should be defined in a different way, by different criteria so that it can be taken into account that this register exists and thus define wages, profits, supply of information and that the Treasury decides only on different criteria for the classification of local self-governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20799	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments with the correction together were submitted by the MPs of Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20800	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, in Article 15, paragraph 6 sets out the deadline for all amendments to the Treasury Administration, which relate to employees, elected, appointed and engaged persons. We think that the seven-day deadline is short and that we need to extend it to 15 days, taking into account the personnel, i.e. The number of personnel we have in local self-government dealing with these affairs, the amount of work they have. It's another additional obligation, and they're under constant pressure and in fear of what happens if they make a mistake. If they make a mistake, they are threatened with a reduction in the transfer funds for local self-government, and we know that many municipalities are the only source of income. Let us release some local self-government and let them breathe, that they are not under constant fear of a reduction in transfer funds, thus reducing their transfer funds. That's why we think the 15-day deadline is reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20801	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Bojana Bozanić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Gorica Mojovic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted an amendment with a correction, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20802	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is very good that this amendment is accepted. Thanks to this amendment, the institution of culture will not be obliged to pay its own income in the budget as of 1 January 2014. In addition to all the troubles encountered by the institutions of culture, I think this obligation has led to a complete blockade of the work of the institutions. Imagine now some small museum that provides some sponsorship funds to print invitations and catalogues for an exhibition, so that sponsor pays him money, and then he pays those funds into the budget and as the money from the budget is returned to the institution of culture, no invitations, no exhibitions. Imagine libraries, which charge several hundred dinars for membership, that every time someone comes to join the library and pays that membership fee of a few hundred dinars, those few hundred dinars have to be paid into the budget. We've already had a situation where some foreign donors have invited some ensembles, theatre troops to visit, provide funds for the purchase of plane tickets, and imagine that money comes to the budget of institutions, and those in the budget and tickets are gone. All in all, we have one, when it comes to budget funds, a terribly slow system. From the moment the decision is made to separate some funds from the budget for the work of cultural institutions until the moment the funds arrive at the jury account is sometimes passed, not for several weeks, but for several months. Imagine if they had to return their own income to the budget. One more thing, the Ministry of Culture continues not to pay attention to the preparation of laws in the Serbian government. We've warned them more than once about laws from other areas. This is another confirmation that the Ministry of Culture, as it would say, is not paying attention to the class, or the Minister of Government does not observe the provisions of the laws concerning culture. We have warned them many times, and this law is a confirmation that the ministry is not responding properly and does not protect the interests of culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20803	Thank you. The time to explain the amendment has been used. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20804	I would like to support this amendment by my colleague Mojovic, but also to commend the ministry that has had enough hearing and understanding that all appeals to us who have warned that cultural institutions cannot be like all other budget users, who understand and which cultural institutions have excluded from this obligation. Why does it matter? My colleague already explained it. I fully understand the ministry's tendency to put all the funds involved in the budget, because there was too much spillage and too little control over these funds. Now it's a very good tendency to pool those funds, and then give them to budget users. But cultural institutions can't be in that common basket because culture isn't just a cost to the state. Culture must also be an investment, but also an industry that is capable of earning for itself. It is therefore important in this country to motivate the institutions of culture to be those that, apart from the funds that the state, donors or someone else gives, will be able to earn themselves by increasing the quality of their programmes, by their own activity, by adapting the programme to the needs of the audience in some way or the way that it is presented, here I am primarily thinking about museums, and thus providing my own revenues that will serve further development and that institution and culture at all, so that the state will not be the only one who has an obligation to care about culture. I just want to appeal to the institutions of culture that this is a good moment and a good opportunity to use these own funds to a greater extent, or to produce them to a greater extent. There are a lot of cultural institutions here, and I can say that I think of some local cultural institutions, but there are also national ones that are bad examples, which simply rely on their salaries to be safe, to be safe from the budget, which is, to some extent, small, but sometimes enough for them. Certainly, it is an excellent example of the Belgrade Philharmonic that has sold out tickets for the entire season or more, which has current programmes, which approach the audience, which conquers the audience, which creates a future audience and thus provides large funds for its own maintenance. This is also a very good example for some national institutions, but also for institutions at a place that are very often put to sleep in one complete inactivity. These are often museums at the bar. There are only a few who are exceptions and examples, but many are not. In my town there was a museum that had 40 years of the same setting, which did not bother to restore it, even when it had received some funds it did not adequately take advantage of it. These are bad examples, and today's children can't look at the settings that their grandmothers were looking at. It's a message to culture. This is a good amendment, this is a good opportunity to remind ourselves that culture can earn, not just cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20805	It was used three minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Gorica Mojovic has been reported, but the time of the DS parliamentary group has been used. (Gorica Mojovic, from the place: Replica. You have two minutes of replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20806	My replica might actually be one little correction. The amendment was adopted by the Serbian government, not by the finance ministry. I understand the need for MEPs to praise their ministry, but I would also remind my colleague Plasic that we had a heated debate on the Committee on Culture just about the Law on the Budgetary System, when representatives of the Ministry of Finance at all costs defended exactly the solution we are changing with this amendment. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20807	National MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic, two minutes of replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20808	I really don't understand the need for this, but I'm just being challenged and I have to take this. I really don't think there's any need for these replicas. I think if we stand for the same thing, then it doesn't matter who the party represents. I didn't defend here, I didn't say one word to the URS, thank you for the opportunity to do it now, and I never once mentioned any other party. I was talking about culture, and I believe that I have expressed the views that we agree on, and the way we fought and lobbyed for this solution, maybe we can talk about it at some other time. I don't think the citizens of Serbia should be bothered by that. The fact is that the government is a promoter, the fact is that the Ministry of Finance is a proposing and that it has accepted this amendment, as is the fact that you submitted it and I commend you for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20809	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 18. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. National MP Bojana Bozanic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20810	Thank you. As you can see, the DSS has been getting pretty serious about this debate, but somehow we don't have any answers. I think inviting someone, with all due respect, to the Assembly not to answer at least one of our questions, is not at least a show of respect for the MPs. As for the amendments that we have submitted to Article 19, it is in the same spirit as these earlier, less or more, which is to say that the ministry would suspend the transfer of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to local authorities, unless the obligations under the provisions of this article are fulfilled, do not deliver documents, papers, figures etc. I don't know when to repeat it anymore, and I repeat it every day, from the debate to the debate, that I don't know why the ministry has such a need to interfere with every little thing that local self-government does, and then only after they don't do it, they punish right away. If the state doesn't respect its laws, the Law on Public Enterprises, on X-rays of Other Laws, it doesn't matter now. So it just matters if where we can condition, where we can punish, that's where we're going to subtract transfers to local self-government, most of which today live only from those funds, other funds and local self-government don't have. We felt that, if this includes local public enterprises such as the public sector, it would be logical for the executive body of local self-government in this case to punish, possibly, those companies or warn them that they should deliver the documentation or whatever it is they need. I think and I would like to repeat that we should not go to centralised, but we must really make sure that everyone has equal treatment because we can get into a situation where some municipalities may be seen through the fingers, which are in the ruling coalition, or whose presidents are municipalities or leadership in the republican government, and this others, opposition, to be in another, worse position and that they are immediately punished. That's what's happened so far. I don't see why we shouldn't continue, and all because we don't have clearly defined and precise criteria, and everyone doesn't tolerate their level of responsibility. If you think we should abolish local self-government and municipalities, so let's run to that EU, rush there, let's abolish the municipalities, and we don't need units in this country at all, if they're not going to deal with anything. As long as people are wondering who are sitting in offices in Belgrade about the problems of ordinary people on the ground, we won't be able to get anywhere from here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20811	Thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to a search in the details of the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pensions and INVALID Security. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda, Proposal for a Law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, on the occasion of that item of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy; Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government; Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, called for the meeting to be attended by Daniel Nikolic, adviser to the finance and business ministers. You have received an amendment submitted to the bill by MP Bojana Bozanic. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1st of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by National MP Bojana Bozanic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20812	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. We also had to submit an amendment to this Article 1 within the framework of this law, so that they would all be consistent with this law on the budgetary system and, before that, amend and supplement the Budget Law. So this was necessary in order to be all in line. In this amendment that I have submitted with correction, it is said that pensions should be tied to GDP growth, so, as much as we do, the more we do, the more we need to grow and pensions, in any case, the better we are, the better. As we discussed this on the Committee, one of our colleagues suggested that perhaps we should define it in another way. The time was like that, but the idea was, in any case, that only as much as we do, as much as we do, that in that way we can increase our pensions. Whether this is in line with this GDP or that is in line with inflation growth, it would probably be better if inflation, given that GDP could fall, but in any case, we believe that maybe this is how it was defined in the law not best done, and I say, everything in line with the story of members and amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and Budget Law, and otherwise could not be defined. In any case, the amendment was not accepted. We'll see, time will show if this was the right decision of the Ministry, or government, or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20813	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support the amendment of my colleague, who, with her amendment, has tied pensions to GDP growth. So the more we earn, the more we divide the oldest, I think we owe the oldest. I can imagine what would have happened if we hadn't lost 500,000 jobs right now, maybe we wouldn't need this amendment. So if we had 500,000 contributions to the PIO fund, I think it would be enough money to keep pensions decent. I will support this amendment, and it would have been even better if it had been in the amendment that I had suggested earlier, that pension growth should be tied up, at least in the next few years, to the growth of the lowest pensions, that those greater than the average pensions do not increase, and that those lower than that increase by the amount of funds we raise more than we have collected so far. For the simple reason that when you increase 0.5% of pensions, whoever has 80,000 dinars, he gets 400 dinars, and whoever has 9,000 dinars of pensions, he gets 4.5 dinars. This creates a growing difference between the smallest and the biggest pensions. I think we should increase at least the pensions first, that people can still experience a dignified age, which is not the case now, and that later, in line with GDP growth, they grow to be others, when they get closer to each other, the range between the smallest and the largest pensions is at least 1:3, and not 1:10. I don't think the old men deserve to be classified that way, that someone doesn't have a pension of 9,000 dinars, and someone has 90,000 dinars. No matter what you do in life, those with 9,000 dinars even if they deserve to have a pension of 20,000 to 25,000 dinars. I think the amendment is related to the growth of the social product is good, that it is, in principle, an idea that I will support, but within that idea, we have to increase pensions for those who have the least pensions and that disabled pensioners who are retired as disabled workers, that these incomplete pensions, since they can no longer be employed anywhere, translate into full pensions. I think that the resources that we make additionally, if God so, with the growth of the social product, should be harmonised in that way. I know this isn't gonna work, but I'm gonna vote for this as a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20815	Used from the time of the parliamentary group for two minutes and 35 seconds. We've completed our search after the amendment, so I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to a search in the details of the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE OBLIGATION OF THE PUBLIC PUBLIC AUTHORITY TO SERBIA PUBLICATIONS AND TRANSPORT OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES IN THE PUBLIC REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, acting in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is in charge of the search in detail of the draft law. The 4th and 5th agenda, in addition to the representative of promoters Suzana Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister Verica Kalanovic, Regional Development and Local Self-Government Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, Transport Minister and Mladjan Dinkic, Finance and Business Minister, called for the session to be attended by Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Branko Drcevic, Director of Public Debt Administration and Daniel Nikolic, adviser to finance and business. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Article 1 Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20816	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the end of these two minutes, I will also use the time of authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. I hope that the authority in the meantime, Mrs. Komic, has reached you. We were already talking five days ago, Mrs Grubjesic, about this law, and then I announced to you that the LDP parliamentary group has submitted amendments to all members of this law, there are not many, there are seven members. We asked for amendments to completely delete the law because we think it is actually a cover of terrible incompetence, and in some cases the criminal business of JP "The Ways of Serbia", which through this law, which you assume the debts of "The Road of Serbia" amounting to more than 11.5m euros per so-called. By means of travel companies, you transfer to the citizens of Serbia, or to the budget. I have some questions again. I hear it wasn't happy in the government, especially with the Minister of Neimara, with the debate going on a few days ago, so I expected him to be so polite today and come to this session. Since yesterday he told us that he was not reconstructing but building, could at least the minister whom the Vice-President of the Assembly said he had been invited to this session, that he would sometimes come to this parliament, so that here in front of the MPs and his parties and the authorities and the opposition he could be so pompous, arrogant and rude that he was on the montage of a demonatative road-rail bridge in Novi Sad, otherwise symbol of many bad things in this country or any other construction site. Instead, you sent you to this session again, Mrs Grubjesic, and I don't know how we're going to conduct this debate. The government's opinion has arrived, it's the same as the reasoning of the bill itself, cynicalally, patheticly. If we do not give 11.5m euros, that is, if we do not take over the 11.5m-euro debt, all travel companies will fail, according to lawmakers, and some other parliamentary groups have submitted amendments. You even refuse to provide this parliament with the list and the exact amounts of debt and the names of the companies to which it is owed. They're repeating some of the arguments why we're asking that all the members of this bill be deleted that we talked about in the debate last week. So, in the meantime, what happened to the debt for the unpaid VAT tax "The Way of Serbia" of 200m euros? Was that the theme of a meeting at Willa "The Box" on Sunday? When a ghastly reform of all sectors of the state administration is announced from the PIO Fund to the business of public enterprises, does this enter the debate into this new plan, in this Weber, whether a debate of 200 million debt "The Road of Serbia" for VAT is taking place? Or is that just for someone else? Does this obligation apply, for example, to Zoran Drobnjak and Resolute Minister Milutin Mrkonjic? Does it apply to any other ministers? Does it apply to Minister Velimir Ilic? All right, we saved the oak, it's all great, it's going to be soaring and steel armor for oak, everything's going to be great, but what about 200m euros in debt to "The Way of Serbia"? What about some other things that are also contained in this bill? Did we find out in the meantime? We asked the government five days ago in what state are "Serbian Ways"? Are "Serbian Ways" blocked or not blocked? How do they reduce the blockage and on what grounds? The text of the law says - funds for the implementation of this law will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Where, Mrs Grubjesic, is she secured in the budget rebalancing this assembly adopted a few days ago? Your rebalance has already fallen apart since it is based on the fact that there will be no city, flood and rain by the end of 2013, and already yesterday was a city in some parts of Serbia, so your rebalancing in this sense has completely failed. I welcome the initiative that existed here, and Mr. Risticevic said at one point that we must support those who receive the lowest pensions, I support it. Since you passed the bill and the budget rebalance that says that those who have a pension of 15,000 dinars will increase that pension by 75 dinars. I'm telling you, it's better if you've increased your pension further by not tolerate and donate money to "The Ways of Serbia", 11.5m euros, and 1.7m is pensioners in Serbia. So you could increase their pension by another seven euros, instead of buying two extra breads to raise their pension, they could buy four. That would mean those who receive 10 or 15 grand, and it would probably mean less to those who receive five times as much as that, and at the same time your colleagues are, say, vice presidents of the government. How much are the debts of the Road of Serbia based on other grounds? Have we established, at least in these five days, how much do Serbian Roads owe to businesses where they've been ordering jobs? According to Minister Dinkic, we met in December and concluded that these debts are about five billion, slightly more than five billion. Then we paid those five billion, meanwhile it turned out to be another $1,350,000, and the Financial Report "The Way of Serbia" reads about 3.5 billion. Who's lying to who in this country? From your reaction, Mrs Grubeshic, I'd say that means everyone. That's why it's so humiliating for this country. Today we have a session on key issues, on the budget system, the PIO Fund, the debts, the taking over of the debts of "The Way of Serbia", a little later on in the health system, the government will not say a single word in this parliament. And then someone expects it to be a new "mein chat". That incredible reforms will be launched in the next six months. To measure passing times. So how do you measure passing times? Are these the SNS MPs who are sitting in the O.R. for them? Is this where time passes is measured, or is it measured on one of these "The Way of Serbia" billing houses? When will Serbian Roads begin to pay 200m euros in debt for unpaid value added tax? That's the key question. That's the answer we need to get from the government. Next week you announced that you would define the government's new goals. Whether, among the government's goals, the resolution of "The Way of Serbia", the responsibility of those who led them in the past period, and of course not only under this government, but also under the previous government. The majority of the 200m-euro debt was created under the previous government, and you just continued that practice. Whether this will be written as a plus or a minus for the Secretary of Resort. When someone is building a 200m-euro debt, is it plus or minus in the reconstruction of the Serbian government? That's one question I have on this amendment. We'll have some more questions on the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20817	Used six minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the authorised representative. The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20818	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in principle, I would like to discuss these amendments and the amendment tabled by the LDP and the amendments submitted by the other parliamentary groups. The Democratic Party has not submitted a single amendment to this law in principle, because the laws on financing and maintaining public roads in this country are governed by other laws, so this is one non-sensus and I don't know why we are passing such a law and why we are discussing it in the Serbian Parliament, if it is known who manages "The Ways of Serbia", if the plan and the programme of work of the Government, what is the plan and the programme of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and then I don't see why this law is even in the assembly procedure. Is this going to be a practice tomorrow for the same law to be found in the "Serbian" which is in the middle of 2013 whose plan and work programme for this year has not yet been adopted, whether and then we will have additional funds that will again be a burden on the budget. To be clear, in principle, we are not against debt to enterprises that maintain roads across Serbia being reconciled and to allow their smooth functioning. We are principled against the fact that in a completely flat-rate way in Serbia's budget, the law regulates an enormous figure that remains a balance, i.e. the ballast of all citizens of this country. Whether it was not well planned or the means of maintenance of roads, those who are legally defined what is the obligation of the Public Enterprise of Serbia were spent on maintaining some other roads and that is what such a proposal would have to contain. Are the highways, regional roads in our country worse because these billions and a half are spent on some local untegrated roads and are not spent on roads that are in the interest and which is the legal obligation of this country. Another thing that this law does not define and what it does not foresee, who will bear the costs of these companies and companies for the obligations done, the delay in paying the Serbian state, who will recognise them interest, costs, the collection of energy, who will recognise the costs that the citizens had on the basis of the bank's duties for their daily life needs. It's just that this is a kind of fire-disgusting thing where there are road maintenance contracts that haven't been changed since the '80s, whether our country really costs that much, and whether this is the way we have a national commitment, we're trying to do it by some law in the short term. I don't think the law was supposed to be in the congregation procedure. The other thing, when it was already found and there was this need to do so, then it was logical to make one structure and an analysis of these costs, the debt of public enterprises, what are real debts to what is the legal obligation of the Serbian state to finance and maintain, if so, and if so, whether there is a legal basis, to help, whether there have been any market disturbances that have caused such a problem to occur and whether we have brought such an irresponsible relationship in recent years our construction operation and tens of thousands of people working in these companies into an uninvited position. We've ruined our own construction operation with this kind of policy. The only person we helped was the banking sector, because the banking sector financed the liquidity of these companies through the short term, and it all went to the burden of these companies. Could their jobs have endured an irresponsible plan of this country? Does anyone bear responsibility for those people who work in these companies? This law and the responsibility of whoever is proposing this law is simply enormous. If we're already passing a law like this, then what Mr. Djuric said, where are those funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget? Does that mean we're going to re-enter some credit arrangement, where we're going to charge this country for that amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20819	Four minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger, Radoslav Milovanovic, has the word, and Srdjan Shin, the Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20820	Your Honor, Madam Minister, the DS has not submitted a single amendment to this law for the simple reason that such a text of the law cannot be changed by anything. If this turns into a public debt and if the citizens are going to pay for it, something like that can't be voted by the DS and I don't know how to fix it at all, anything. The other thing is that we have a Minister for European Integration in front of us, we don't have a Minister of Transport, we don't have anyone from the Road of Serbia. Who we're going to talk to about this serious issue that's already collapsing the Republic of Serbia's budget. Whether we will enter the EU with such a problem, with unfinished restructuring of state-owned companies, with directors who are mildly problematic. Will this Little Man finally suffer the consequences of something like this? Why is this part of the VAT debt, why is this part turning into a public debt? I repeat, at least two hospitals and at least 66 kindergartens can be made for this money. From the team that made this public enterprise, one kindergarten can be made. Imagine that haughtiness in this public enterprise. The other thing is that toll is the most expensive in Europe, I mean Serbia. The next thing that's very important here, which is, the cost of the toll money, is it going into the budget and how are these funds used? The auditor's report best shows how they did "Serbia's Paths". I come from eastern Serbia, where there is a long story of a semi-road going from Pogorec, Kučev, Majdanpek to Negotin. Wasn't there money in the budget rebalancing at least for the planning documentation for that trip, which is vital to the people who live there, there's already money for something like this. Whether we're going to borrow again, since the new government has made a 4.5 billion-euro debt, we are announcing loans for the purchase of aircraft and radar systems and I think that's what we need most now. There's money for ostrada, there's money for commercials, and there's no increase in pensions, for maternity care, for child support and for the rest. Local self-government is in a difficult position and the other day was a session of local self-government in Kučev and there is not enough money. There's no money to transport a student, no money to give birth, no money to fertilize, and there's money to... Please allow order, so I can speak at the session. So, there's money for additional borrowings. The Democratic Party did not participate in the management of the "Road of Serbia", the DS did not participate in the privatisations now being questioned, the DS took part in what you are doing now, Mrs Grubjesic – preparing the ground for Serbia to get a date, patiently and for years. It was not easy for her to co-operate with The Hague tribunal then, it was not easy to reach an SAA agreement, it was not easy to get to the start of negotiations. It was all done by the DS that was the headquarters of the previous government, but unfortunately, that's not what we're talking about right now. Another thing I would say and what is related to this amendment, which is said to be deleted, is that such laws simply shouldn't come into congregation procedure. I think it's something that's almost not for a single assembly committee, let alone for a session of the Assembly. So what's additionally in debt to citizens, if we know that in a year, 40,000 people are out of work and we're still funding public enterprises, it's not right. We still don't have a clearly defined programme for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. What are these companies gonna do if they get into debt? Will he get funds from the budget as it happens with public enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20821	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20822	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I hope the chairman will be as tolerated to me as anyone else, when it comes to how much I'm talking about the amendment. Because we simply have some things to comment on. I think some people are right to say that there should be a specification, not only when it comes, how many debts, but also on whose orders certain paths or certain services have been made. I really don't understand if it was done two, three months ago, or if certain things were done during the election campaign, and I really don't know what neighborhoods, what streets, and what miles, meters or width of the road there was a campaign, and then there were certain votes, and I don't know whose campaign was funded? Is that how this government's campaign was financed? Really, I can disagree with some things, I can say that's not good, but we have a real name and a last name to call some things. I think all MPs must accept that. It is irresponsible that we do not realize the obligations that any government has made, according to any subject. It's our responsibility. But it's also irresponsible that we're saying we don't have to pay the debts we made today, so in four years we're criticizing someone who pays our debts for which we're in charge. If we are in charge, then at least leave it to those who pay our debts, to keep quiet and let them pay for it, and not—someone pays our debts, we criticize them for paying it and say it is irresponsible. It may be more responsible -- not to pay any of our debts, but then it is Serbia, then it is not one political party, one political party and one government. So we finally have to start doing two things. First, to understand that every government that made a commitment, Serbia has to pay for it. But the answer to that should not be that it is bad, but the answer to that should be – who has made these debts, what are the paths, what services have been done, on whose highest order it was done, and who is responsible for it? When we start working that way, we'll have one row and we'll know what it's all about, because every thing gets its real name and name. This way, I was impressed by your discussions, as we, as a small Roma party, are taking part in this coalition, that the Roma Party has made miles of roads in Roma settlements and that with these miles of roads we have taken photos, we have received votes for these settlements, and therefore we are now participating in this electoral coalition. There's something I don't remember that's exactly how it was, and those who remember those times, it would be good for them to at least tell the truth here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20823	It was used three minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Siniša Lazic has the word, and the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20824	I'd like to refer to this Mr. Shane exhibit. First of all, it's a clean order, information that this government has only existed for a year and that the story of who made these debts and whether it's just been devastated. For a year these companies were in trouble and it was the government's obligation to deal with these problems. As for the financing of roads in populated towns, all municipalities and local self - administrations, it makes no difference whether they are Roma settlements or other settlements. Local self-governments keep some of the local roads out of their budgets. I can tell you that there is a Roma settlement in Apatino which is one of the largest Roma settlements in Europe that has no unfailed street and is financed mainly from the budget of local self-government. The amendments are discussed here and the intention to place a billion and 400m dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget with subsequent attempts, legal elements, into the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is one irresponsible relationship. When someone says you need to build a structure, in that part of the exposure, I agree with you. That's exactly what I've been discussing - to make a structure of real claims, what are really the competences of the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", what are really the obligations of the Republic of Serbia to finance maintenance and what is it that is not funded and what has burdened these companies that today have 10,000 workers who do not receive salaries and whose liquidity is threatened? Mr. Shain, a year is the government on stage and you have a chance to correct these mistakes, but not after a year but you've had to do it much earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20825	One minute and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that a year is a pretty good time to pay back the old debts. Because we still decided it was old debts. What concerns and needs to worry both of them, whether the government, the opposition or anyone who supports the opposition or the government, is an attempt to increase the public debt. So it was said that the figure was six billion and most likely that the relevant directors of the travel companies had some agreement to increase the value when making these roads, and six billion were spoken of. When the invoices came, our luck turned out to be 1.35 billion dinars. I agree with my previous colleague and if it wasn't for these 10,000 employees, I would never vote to turn this debt into a public debt. So, there are 26 toll companies, the directors are probably so rich that this debt won't hit them unless we declare it public debt, so they have quite enough and I believe that they're well-existed, so if we don't turn this into a public debt, it's threatening that these 10,000 employees in 26 companies, and I agree with my colleague, are being damaged for their personal incomes. Because the first thing employers do is not pay personal income workers. That's the only reason I'm going to vote for the law to admit this to a public debt. Otherwise, I wouldn't vote at all. Most of all, I would like the directors of travel companies and directors of public enterprises that have ruled since 2000 and even before, to control their property, along with the directors of travel companies, and simply from their assets, and it is quite a collection of all those claims that we now have to declare public debt. I would most like to charge it from those who have and how they have been exploited in the previous period by the thickness of the asphalt, the build-up of prices, etc. There were various models to rob the Republic of Serbia's budget in a certain way. I'd like those who have privately benefited from it, to make up for it, but I think it should be done by another authority and that it's never too late, to make up for what we now have to admit as a public debt, so that 26 companies that maintain roads don't get in the bull. That's the only reason I'm not voting for this amendment and why I'm gonna uphold the law. Otherwise I agree with most colleagues that there's something wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20827	It was used two minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20828	Here, there's been a discussion and it actually shows where the root of our problems is. It always begins with this pointless discussion of who made the debt, and the debt actually comes from a model that manages both construction and maintenance of roads. For the thousandth time, we tell you that you will never find enough absolutely pure and honest to reduce the thickness of the asphalt or the thickness of the gravel as long as public money is spent in this business and use public authority because it will always be Alajbe's straw and always, Mr. Shane, will be used for the election campaign. That's why private economy and capitalism are better than this socially responsible state of yours that is constantly trying to be a neimer and a dunce. "He who pitted, pitted," they said in Croatia 20 years ago when it was stolen or taken on the thickness of the gravel. It's always like that when the state is the main contractor in the country. That's why the problem is when you say - well no, but our chance is infrastructure and building this or that. It will never be because it will always end with a new debt. Mrs Grubjesic, I understand all the restrictions you cannot talk about today, but we already have a serious problem. Mr. Risticevic says a five- or six-billion-long debt has been established. Fortunately, in the meantime, invoices came in, so it's 1,350,000. Mr. Dinkic said something else here. Did he pay that five billion-dollar debt and something? Was he paid or not paid? So, it's not about any sort of state-of-the-art and real-estate adjustment, compared to some of the invoices that were bloated before that, but it's about the old invoices or the claims presented at the time, and this is a new debt. That's why it's such a problem. Is it also how much the debts of the "Serb Road" towards the travel companies before this law have been settled in the past year? Is that a zero or some other amount? I think it's a little higher and it's a few dozen million euros. I agree, of course, that part of the money "The Road of Serbia" went into pre-election campaigns, it is not controversial, such as the creation of a 200m-euro VAT debt, even for that part of the debt that has been made in the last year, SNS, SPS, URS, and for the 200m created by autumn 2012 are the blames of DS, SPS and the URS. I'm sorry I don't mention less partners. They are protected in reconstruction, so it is okay to be protected in the congregation debate. Don't get us involved in this. We don't have anything to do with it. We said in 2011 -- seize the order in "Serbia's Ways". Of course, my stomach turns to me when I hear that the Drobnjak has now become a problem, and a year and a half ago he wasn't a problem. He was troublesome back then, but stop with the weight transfer from one to the other. Mr. Shain, no one here criticises those who will pay this debt because neither you nor I are anyone who will pay this debt. It will be paid by taxpayers or will be paid to the extent that we contribute each year to Serbia's budget. You're not paying back this debt. He's being returned by taxpayers. The Republic of Serbia has not made this debt, but has created a company, a company called "The Paths of Serbia", which is not a state, I'm sorry, please. In that company, the director has a much bigger salary than you, say, Mr. Shane. So he's a state to himself. It is not subject to restrictions that apply to others in this country, to those who have decided to enter politics, to take risks, to be exposed to attacks. The white bears at the head of public enterprises are exempt from it, Mr. Shane, but by political decision they are excluded. That is why it is possible in this country that there is a krol in the RTS programme that says that the director of "Srbijagas" and our colleague, Bajatovic, will visit the Banatski Dvor underground warehouse today. Is there a country in the world where television is announced that the company director is visiting his drive? It doesn't exist anywhere. That's a billion euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20829	It's been used five minutes since the authorized representative's time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has the word, and Srdjan Shin, the Messenger of the people, Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20830	By supporting this amendment, I also support all the arguments that respected colleagues have made in favour of the adoption of this amendment. In fact, the attitude towards spending in a manner of conditionality, and in this area of public finance, also shows the system in which the existing system is operated and all seriousness. If this bill had come up with everything that needs to be done and everything that all colleagues talk about, including me, debt structure, debt time, debt guilt, that we have a clear overview of which something has already been paid, not only through toll, but also through other payments that citizens daily, and I, too, give to the public enterprise "The Way of Serbia", then and with firm guarantees that the system will change in the shortest time, that someone will be responsible for the creation of this debt, then we could support this law, but we can't do this. On the other hand, with very poor infrastructure, i.e. the state of our roads, along with the most expensive tolls in the region, along with the 7.5-euro toll on the Nis-Belgrade route, which is the average price of vignette in seven, ten or fifteen days in the environment, a fundamental question is raised – how is it possible that with such revenues there is such a shortage? How is it possible that it does not solve the problem in a similar way from year to year, but rather delays the problem and does not mislead a serious system? This is why the opinion of our parliamentary group is only when a serious system is put in place and, regardless of those 10,000 workers who will literally save their jobs, with argument for and against, we really are one organised chaos, one general publicist, one total irresponsibleness and impunity for this kind of relationship with these means, we cannot really support something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20831	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20832	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I agree with my fellow Apatin, but it would be better if he spoke of the Monostor since he came from Sombor municipality. The mayor is not the same as the mayor of Sombor in Apatina, so while the mayor of Apatina really singled out funds from local self-government and built that road. I've been there, I don't know if you've been, but I've also been to Monostor, where there's an association during the election for a little trip, or, better say a little trail, I said - that's what we did. You best know which political party the president of that association worked for. When we come to talk to them, the citizens say – you know they give us, they help us, they build us a Monostor. Who's paying for it now? It would be best if those who have been there and spoken—we build, we work, we respect you, to pick you up now and pay for it. Instead, someone else has to pay. I agree with my LDP colleague, if we are looking at a legal theory, then we say the state is a assembly, because citizens are transferring their sovereignty through elections to the Serbian Parliament, but I also have to agree with something else, that the state today in Serbia has been destroyed because it has been collapsing for a long, long time. I have to repeat what I said when we talked about that amendment that we have a situation that, say, you have in the state administration, which should serve someone who represents the state, that you have people who don't know how to do it. I wonder if we can use the classic definitions of the state in our country that we've all brought down together? I'm saying once again, maybe the responsibility of the small party that I belong to and the MP groups of this party over the next 10 years is not as big as the others, but we all participated in the collapse of the state. We must once all become responsible for this country to build a state, to make the state work and to break up more. In that sense, I was talking. Obviously, we didn't get along well. To tell the citizens clearly – this time the state of Serbia is building on you, because it is part of the public debt. That's not what anyone brought, not from their house, not from their parents, and you don't need to vote for someone, because they simply took yours to give half of it, and that other half you have to pay as much as you know and can. Maybe we didn't get along well, but now I've tried a replica, since I've been mentioned twice, let me just say. So we have to seriously change our relationship with these citizens because they pay, and we are all citizens and we have to change our relationship to that country, which is exactly what a LDP colleague is talking about. We can say whatever we want in theory. In practice, however, we have a country as it is. In practice we have a situation that this public enterprise is a state, in practice we have agencies are a state, in practice we have a government is a state, in practice we have been doing it for 10 years. Therefore, any theoretical debate about some other states cannot be applied here. Did much happen in the last year in the construction of the state? I'm saying it is. Are we satisfied? I'm not personally satisfied with that? I think that in some things the situation should continue to change, but we have simply done a great thing that we have created the conditions to really move slowly towards building a legal state in which it will be unilaterally, what a colleague from LDP was talking about, to know what a public enterprise is, to know what a government is, to know what a Serbian Parliament is. However, we live in a situation where citizens still think that this is what was before and still address not the state, not the Assembly, but they address everything and everything, thinking that this is Serbia in which they should live. In that sense, I say that this is an opportunity not to defend practically old habits through this amendment, but to say what is black, to say what is white and to say what is what kind of state we want and what state can really be part of the EU. Everything else I think is demagogy and we don't need it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20833	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Vuceta Toskovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Siniša Lazic, after him the Messenger Marjan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20834	The President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the attack on this amendment is by the opposition, and we all know that this authority did not owe half of the dinars, when it comes to the Serbian Roads and the construction of roads, and in no case are they to blame for such a bill that will turn these debts into public debt. Working for about 22 years at a travel firm in Novi Sad, since I've known to work in that travel company, he's always been an unfavourable investor, when it comes to carrying out his duties, so it's not a newspaper. There's a problem with people later. How can this programme that brings a republic or a province, or a local self-government, provide resources and in no other way spend those funds except where they are intended? Now questions are being raised over this short period of about 10 years, how did these funds get spent on purpose or purposeless? Then again, the question arises as to how someone criticises, and we know that there are monopolies. I can't understand that criticism because they owe the people something. So this government hasn't made any expense. You can talk about next year when it is made for the current year of the plan and programme in the travel industry, whether these funds will be poured out. Suppose there will be no choice, which is not impossible, but since we are in power, the funds will not go for the pre-election campaign, but will go to the Roads of Serbia where we will build roads as planned by the programme. Serbia knows that this authority did not owe "The Ways of Serbia" a single dinar, but it was in the previous period. Whoever did this will have the authority to determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20835	The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20836	Thank you. First of all, I answered Mr. Shane's discussion, but it is excellent that Mr. Vuceta Toskovic said that he was here, since I believe he is fully competent to discuss the travel economy, since he spent a good part of his working life in the travel industry and also in the local travel industry from 2003 to 2008. So I think he's completely competent and he absolutely knows how to finance the local road network and how to finance the first and second lines of the state of Serbia. So I think he knows it very well, even better than I do, and I'm sure there's no dilemma about it. Mr. Shine, I recommend you, since I am sure that Mr. Toskovic knows this well, that what you were talking about financing roads in Apatin, Backo Monostor and Bogojev, Sonta and Svilojev and in settlements wherever there are Roma communities, it is primarily in the competences of local self-government and I claim that there is one responsible relationship towards each part that the infrastructure leads to an urbanised and decent level, regardless of whether or not it is a Roma community, whether it is a member of another national community. I don't think there's any difference, and there's no need to ask a question about Bucky Monostor or Apatino. I'm an MP from Somboro and the West Back County and I certainly have the full right and legitimacy to speak for the people who live in that space, whether you like it or not. You do not have the explicit right to represent the national interests of the Roma community in the Republic of Serbia as no one has the right to represent any national community after it has settled into a political party. The obligation of all MPs here is to represent the interests of the citizens of this country. Please don't abuse this in such a way as to say that the people of Backo Monostor are possibly abused. Then I should ask Mrs Grubjesic when she will finish the trip between Backo Monostore and Kukusina, which Mrs Kalanovic promised two years ago. Project documentation has been submitted and is partly based on the Roma community living in Backo Monostor? Then the question whether the town of Sombor was in charge of 85.90m for the investment, and Mrs Kalanovic agreed two years ago that it would be done and the third time this year the competition was rejected. That's the thing if you want to talk about it. This is the law of the Republic of Serbia. It's about the roads of the first and second order and what is the jurisdiction of the national level. Do not mix local and untegorized roads and whether a debt of a billion and 400 million is based solely on the maintenance of the first and second-row roads, or whether it was created on the basis of maintenance of those roads for which the state was not responsible. That's what I was pointing to, and that's what I'm talking about. Were people in the travel industry abused because someone had given them a political order to do other roads without having a legal basis. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20837	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my little People's Peasants' Party certainly didn't do what their colleagues discussed in the campaign. So I don't have any political interest in this subject, except we have to pay those passengers. The debt to the tolls on May 15th is 8.7 billion and can be easily searched for in the data. Many of these companies have pawned property, machinery, hand mortgage, facilities, etc. Many of these companies are more due to the fact that not only the state owes them. The state owes them all about 2.7 billion. I'm asking my colleagues not to forget the other debts. Belgrade owes two billion passengers. Local self-government 1.9 billion, the Capital Investment Fund one billion, with no desire to share debts on similar and non-matched debtors, both friendly and hostile debts. Debts are debts. Those tolls have some problems. The only reason I'm voting against this amendment and why we're voting for the law to pay by way of travel is that these companies are kind of unblocked, they're unblocked, because there's a place where the banks have seized machines, etc., and these toll companies can't work. So when they can't work and the workers can't get paid, 26 times the travel companies expect us to regulate our debt through this public debt to them. So, having directors amongst themselves, I condemn it, that it was in the campaign, no matter what party I'm doing, but we simply as a serious state have to pay those debts that the state, whoever was in power, left behind some former government, and I hope this government doesn't do what it did before, that it won't leave the same debts that some next Assembly has to turn some debts into public debt. I said what I'd like most is for all the directors we've got to catch, take away their property, pay the workers their wages, and pay the debts. Unfortunately, at this point it doesn't seem feasible. I don't share debts either in Belgrade or in local, or in the Capital Investment Fund, or in the "Serbian Roads". I think that all these 8.7 billion on May 15th we need them to pay in one way or another, so that the appropriate Assembly and authorities find a way to regulate the state and local self-government, the province, Belgrade, so that they can start working, not to work on our roads only by strangers. If they pawned their assets, if they're blocked, if they can't work, if we don't pay them, there's nothing out of it, these workers don't get paid. It is a motive for me to accept that this is a public debt, and of course I would like all the congregations, local, Belgrade, the provinces to do so and regulate their debts towards the tolls, at least according to the rest of this low construction that still exists in Serbia. All the big jobs in the past have been taken by some foreign firms. Ours are usually subcontractors, so our construction is low on very low branches. For these reasons, I appeal to you to pay this, however, since no one else is slowing down that debt, and that every organisation, local self-government, Belgrade, the province, in its own way, tries to pay these tolls what they, their workers, mostly at very high temperatures at hot asphalt. I think that would be fair of us. I agree with all of you, in the future it should be kept in mind that the state does not come into such a position that it has to pay for something that someone lightly owed in the previous period. I don't think the current government should behave the way someone we've found before behaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20839	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20840	Now I am confused after what Mr. Toskovic was talking about and what Mr. Risticevic was talking about. Mr Toskovic said that this government has not made a single debt "The Way of Serbia" since 27 July last year. But Minister Dinkic says in December those debts were about five billion, that they were paid, meanwhile, another billion and 350 million dinars you are looking for now. Mr. Risticevic says the debts on some date in May were eight billion, from which I conclude that at least a few billion new debts, Mr. Toskovic, came in the meantime. I only ask that within the framework of your ruling coalition, when the government already does not want to send here a minister who can answer these specific questions, agree on what the current situation is. The other thing is, it's not true, Mr. Toskovic, that there are no new debts. If Serbia's "roads" at the current level of income they have could not meet their obligations, how will they reconcile them now that they have an obligation to pay VAT. It's between 23 billion and 25 billion dinars, Mr. Toskovic, annually. It will be somewhat smaller when the methodology of the VAT law is fully applied. They'll have a new flaw. They've already got it. A few days ago, when you adopted the budget rebalance, you gave them another six billion and 200 million dinars. Now you're giving them another billion and 350 million. At the end of last year, at the beginning of this year you gave them about five billion. They're going to raise about 15 billion dinars in this year, 120 million euros, for example, from tolls. He'll get a few billion more. It's the 10% of the excises, and it's going to get 6.2 billion direct donations from the budget, and it's going to have a huge deficit. That's the problem. That's why I can't believe this is gonna be the last takeover. It won't be. This is April 1st. All those contracts are still the same. It's not winter, winter will come again during this calendar, fiscal year, the same debt will come back. That's what this is about. That's why this is no solution. Are the contracts changed in the meantime or are the 1992 contracts still? Let go of the campaign. It comes, it goes, of course it's a terrible thing to do in campaigns, but it's not a fundamental problem. As Serbian Roads are organised, they generate debts all the time. Those who conclude contracts, or annexes, with them know they won't have to pay them. They hope it happens in the end like this to take over the debt and pay off. That's how the whole system's been set up, not for the last year, for at least 20 years. The question is what was before and how effective it really was, but somehow it was different, it was all a common register. My key question, if that's the case, what do we need with JP "The Ways of Serbia", if we budget, watch out, we've given them some kind of public income or road tax, toll 15 billion, we give them a cut for excises, we give them a direct grant, and we take over the debt. Then we don't need Serbian Ways. Then the state can make direct deals and pay directly. It will be later, cheaper, for those who are employed there, for the cabinet of directors who are huge. That's cheaper, then. Then we don't need the JP "Serb Roads" and I don't give a penny to "Serb Paths" until they meet their basic legal obligation. They're getting a direct budget subsidy. Under the LDP amendment to the Law on Public Enterprises, the Government is obliged to deliver and to publish on its website an internal restructuring plan, namely a plan to spend money on subsidies and what it will do to make sure they do not need a subsidy next year. Did they do it, Mrs. Grubsic? No, they're not. Serbia's "roads" still have a board of directors, although it has not existed under the law for six months. That's why there are no dinars for "Serbian Roads".
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20841	The time of the authorised representative has been used and one minute since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20842	I'll speak as an authorised representative. The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, and I have come to the conclusion that Minister Mrkonjic was angry with you for not replicating the MPs who spoke critically about this bill. I was intrigued by that. I expected Minister Mrkonjic to come to this room today and try to answer our questions. You obviously don't want to get involved in this debate, probably because you're not interested in discussing this issue, because it's not you who's working with the tolls and who can give us any answer to the questions we've asked in the debate in principle. To Serbian citizens who will pay for the second time the debts of travel firms, I remind them to pay for the first time through registration of cars, excise fuel, all other taxes that go into the budget and in the case of Serbia, from which these subsidies have been discussed. We'll pay for it again. Next time we pay the debts of a public company. That's the kind of thing the government has to answer. You're here in front of the government and you're obliged to answer us why that is. Why is there no one responsible why "Serbian Ways" break through the plans they make or have bad plans, so they plan badly? It's real for both of us, and for them to break through and make bad plans. Nothing surprises us. Why do we keep coming to the situation that all are responsible and citizens are constantly paying the costs of irresponsible directors and irresponsible people who manage these ministries? I find Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic immeasurably likable, so I have concluded that here we will discuss who with Minister Dinkic perhaps through lyrics about this topic, perhaps not rock music, but some other music, but certainly through lyrics. Then we would get to how money is spent, because in this way we will not get anywhere and I would disagree with Mr. Djuric that some should be excluded, because they are not the subject of reconstruction, that they should be excluded from responsibility. No, I don't. It is known who made the debts and it is known that President Tadic has been president of the 2008 Infrastructure Council and that he has been going, cutting tapes all over Serbia. He can't be responsible for the debt he's now created. Even a retired party can't be irresponsible. They may not have made a direct debt in "The Ways of Serbia", but they have made a hole in some of the other companies they manage. It's their responsibility and all those who did it. This is the debt that came before, and we need to resuscitate it now. It's not a dispute, first of all because of those people waiting to get rid of this, so we can get paid. Is this the 26 companies mentioned by Mr. Risticevic? Maybe it is. But you still didn't give us what we were looking for -- what companies, for which debt do we pay these 1.3 billion? We were just looking for a specification, nothing else. So, when the deal's arranged, why isn't he paid, is it done? We don't have that. You're asking MPs here to raise their hands for something we don't know what it is, for 1,300,000 long travel companies. The law of eight members. You didn't tell us, one, 120 million dinars to that and that, for business here and there, and so on. To know who he's going to go to. No, not here in the woods, and yet someone else is going to deploy that money. Maybe the money, in the end, doesn't come back to the ones they're meant to, the ones they're talking about here. The model you're applying here, where debt is constantly transferred to the public sector budget, is totally unacceptable. About health care facilities -- late last year, we took over a debt-free medical facility for drugs that was nine billion, 13 billion. Now you've come to change that law because that debt is smaller. Why is it smaller? Because then, we warned you and then, you didn't give a specification of all the debts -- to whom is it due, on what basis, how much is it due and how much is it paid? No, it's the dwarves, that's how you made a 13-billion-dollar figure and came here to the Assembly. Now you're coming to change that law. It's all about the swelling. You can't say, you're here in front of the government and you owe us an answer. We can't leave the congregation and the citizens without an answer, that's the basic thing. Secondly, or third, what it looks like, yesterday we heard Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's statement, which says on the Varadin Bridge, which is partly financed from the Republic, in part the City of Novi Sad and in part the province government, that job was given to the Italian and Spanish companies. They're business carriers and they got to do it. He says – we are happy because Bridge builds this bridge. So the Bridge got a job building a bridge, and the carriers and subcontractors were the Italian and Spanish companies Mostograding. I'm sure they won't want the Dwarfs from Spain to come and build our bridge. I'm sure they won't come from Barcelona to knock and boil the bridge, but they'll do it by our people. I ask the question – why will the profits go to Spain and Italy, and ours will remain to work for minimum earnings again? Average earnings in travel companies are between 20,000 and 30,000. They work at 40 degrees and under difficult conditions. That's the same question we're expecting an answer to. I'm just curious, we're gonna pass by and go to Novi Sad on Saturday, so we're gonna go by and see how many Spanish and Italian walls that bridge is? I'm just gonna go, I'm gonna take the translator to Spanish and Italian, check out how many Spanish and Italians are building that bridge. Are there two, three? There's a "Exit," so there's going to be a lot of Spanish and Italians, but not on the bridge, but on "Exit." These are the things we expected to get an answer for. Unfortunately, there's no answer. There aren't even those who are the most responsible. I really expect, and here is the DS opposition now, to say, yes, one part of the responsibility is ours. What's the problem? I expect them to support this law, because this covers the debts that they made in their time, to compensate those people who work in the most difficult conditions, in the travel companies, in the hot weather, and at least they get some money. At least those who are recently in power are responsible. The principle of debt is something that is manipulative and it remains the same, that we still don't know which model of funding is being applied, whether financing the travel economy will be according to the European model, or by the African model? Will the standards in the construction of roads be European, or will our standards be, I don't know, how the roads in Africa are, I haven't driven Africa, but will they be as we have so far? Will our standards be such that we always put less gravel, less shirts, less asphalt, and our path fails? Finally, will anyone be able to answer us, how many miles of highways have been made in Corridor 10, Corridor 11 and all other corridors since 2008? No one has the right answer. It's going from 36 kilometers to 360 kilometers. No one gave us the right answer for how many miles of highway? Every year, we're in debt, we're in debt, we're outsourced. In doing so, Republika Srpska, with 1,200,000 inhabitants, has made the highway, and what highways, and what tunnels, and in a much greater mileage than we have done since 2008. These are the questions we expect answers to. I think it would be very ugly for the citizens of Serbia and for the MPs not to get a single answer to the questions we have been asking here in the Assembly for days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20843	Nine minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. People's MPs are registered in the electronic system: Janko Veselinović, Vuceta Toskovic, Sinisa Lazic, Marijan Rističević and Srdjan Sajn. Since MP Branislav Kovacevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will delete the list and ask you to report in this order. Please sign in to get your word. The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20844	Madam Chairman, with all due respect, I have been reporting members of 106 and 104 for an hour and a half. You've been running this session for an hour and a half, and the debate is totally passive, unengaged, and that means, Mr. Gjuric, that we've been through the debate in principle the other day. For an hour and a half, of which at least three quarters, we have a debate in principle. Even with these amendments, we mention health care and everything. In addition, regardless of the time spent by your group, or by an authorised representative, there are those who did not spend it and regularly the replicas do not end in business time, but much longer and you do not warn, you do not let go. Let's really go back to the amendments and discuss the amendments. Let's leave the repeats of the principle debate, and that is, above all, your business of taking care of it. So you have repeatedly violated this Rules of Procedure in my opinion. Let's narrow it down a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20845	National MP, no injuries, no members of 104, no members of 106. The amendment in the search is deleted. The law under investigation is turning into a public debt debt to JP "The Ways of Serbia". If we want to speak, as it is said, in a narrow sense, then for two governments, and if you want in a broader sense, for a total of 10 governments that Serbia has chosen since 1990 until today, therefore, in an attempt to enable order at a session, to allow all MPs to say what they have on this bill, the amendment "expects" I have the next choice - or to allow no one to say anything other than "I support the amendment is deleted", "I do not support the amendment being deleted", or to imply what kind of bill is in the procedure, allowing all MPs and digressions. If any MP had "exceeded," I apologize for using that word, I would have warned him that he was too far away from the subject. No replica is given, nor will it be if the debate continues in this spirit as it has been so far. So, I'm taking care of the order in the session knowing what the amendment is and what the bill is under review. Do you want the National Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you, and I'd like to remind myself that I'm going to erase the electronics list again. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Please sign in. After him, the word will be given by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20846	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the objection, which is not only mine but also the other MPs, is that we have a Deputy Prime Minister here, who doesn't have much of a touch with the Travels of Serbia, with the debts of the Travels of Serbia, and that we have, in some way, a minister of duty here for the week, similar to in the army -- an officer on duty, and that would seem to be a well-organised and a good army. However, it seems to me here that it is an army that is in some way quite disoriented and that neither soldiers nor officers know what to do. In such a situation, it is difficult to address questions and to make constructive proposals regarding these laws that are on the agenda, and they are very important and were right to be chaired by Gordana Komic when she said that this is an amendment that provides very broad opportunities for his interpretation, because practically by eradicating it, it creates the possibility that the state should not be in charge of 1,346,775,310 dinars, i.e. not to take over the debt of "The Way of Serbia" or to have the state take over that debt and practically push its hand into the pocket of all Serbian citizens, which is not the first time and would not have done this government that is making such budget rebalance, before the budget and knows nothing more than to re-deploy and redist that debt. It was an interesting discussion of previous debates from the opposition's ranks that a little strangely transferred responsibility to the previous government and it is no wonder that we from the DS may not be able to get used to being an opposition. We've been in power for four years, but it's a surprise fact, and you can't get used to that we're no longer the government, but that the government is in the hands of the SNS, the SPS, the URS and all the smaller parties that support them, including lately the SPO. However, when it comes to cutting the tape, it is true that President Tadic had the opportunity to cut tape on new parts of the highway. The current president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nikolic, had no opportunity to cut any tape anywhere after no kilometer of highway was built, and by all accounts, neither would be completed, possibly when they finished cutting the shares around the highways that the previous government had built might have been able to cut off some of the ribbons on the day of the slaughter or ending the trimming of the surrounding roads. However, we also pointed out this in principle debate, you said that Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is very nice to you, and I would like to think that Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Ilic and all the fine ministers in this government would be nice to me too if they weren't ministers. But unfortunately, they are ministers, and in those positions, I do not like them because they cause great damage to the Republic of Serbia. Why are they causing damage? Today, we are discussing a law that the state of Serbia assumes on its own a commitment of 1,346,775,310 dinars due to the unprofessional management of the ministry and the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" which is in jurisdiction under the circumstances of the SAA and this government did not have the strength, despite promises to make public calls, to apply the Law on Public Enterprises, to depolitise public enterprises, did not force it to place people who are competent in the right places. An example of the New Sad, where you, too, are colleagues from the DSS in power. From two days ago, they were in a public competition as selected new directors and behold, all in turn ex-v.d. Directors of party membership from SNS, DSS, SPS, third Serbia, the Roma Party, etc. who's doing all that coalition now in the New Sad. Among them are parties that apparently bought votes in the elections. It might be logical that Mr. Drobnjak is doing the job of Serbian Roads Director and no longer owes the Republic of Serbia, only on the basis of unpaid tolls of the annual state of Serbia, i.e. Serbia's Roads, is not damaged by a million 746m euros. Just on the basis of unpaid tolls, those who don't want to pay tolls, and that's what Mr. Drobnjak gave them. Imagine what a million and 700 thousand euros could be done on those roads. Maybe some hole could patch up. Maybe we could make it safer to get out and get on the highways, so our citizens don't die on them. Maybe we could secure some of those roads. But no, Mr. Drobnjak for those who get killed on those roads says they're blind because only a blind man wouldn't see concrete pillars standing completely unmarked on the side of the road. Mr. Michael, you know that yourself. In that sense, this law and this member of the law is one of the proof that this government is incompetent, that it wanders, that when there is no other solution, it reaches out for taxpayers' money, or from citizens of Serbia. You had a chance the other day to see that one car owner for registration needs to pay a minimum of 10 thousand dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20847	Mr. Veselinović, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20848	So 10,000 dinars go from car owners, who register their car, as revenue for maintenance of roads. Where did that money go from two million car owners owned by citizens, who are non-commercial vehicles, what about cargo trucks, tractors, trailers, etc.? I ask the government of Serbia – do these money end up like any other means that are intended to patch up some gaps in the budget made by this government and because of the incompetence of the resolution ministers? In that sense, we cannot, as a party, feel responsible for what the current government is doing, nor can we support this law. Of course, we can support this amendment that in some way goes to put the whole law out of effect, because it is practically proposed to delete all members of the law, but we felt in the DS that this law cannot be corrected, that it should be withdrawn, that citizens should not be further in debt. Someone earlier said that it was not excluded that in some future period such a law would again come into the process and that we would continue to pay what irresponsible directors do as damage, again I say, in a country where the directors of absolutely political figures, absolutely by party membership were appointed and appointed and without any desire to change anything on that plan. You've completely played the Law on Public Enterprises, including a law that should regulate the election of directors at the state level. Almost all the directors stayed in those places where they were previously elected. When you organize competitions, you organize it in a way that one of your political staff stays in that position, because through the introduction of three candidates, who enter the final round, you have always made it possible for among those three to be a man from your parties and there is no speech about depolitisation. As long as this is the case, our paths will be as they are now, full of holes, and the citizens of Serbia will pay for the negligence and neglect of this government about the roads, as well as the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20849	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20850	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Veselinovic, just to tell you, it would not be a good idea to bring the truth out here. In the City of Novi Sad Assembly, the Roma Party... (President: Mr. Shane, I remind you that you should first say which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured and explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Article 107. So it's not the Roma Party, it's the Roma Democratic Party, and it's the same party that you've certified the mandates and that's in coalition with you in Odjac. (President: Mr. Shane, please stick to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague said... (Chairman: Yes, but you've reached out for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm talking about. (President: Okay, but don't rephrase. ) I am not replicating, but I just want to explain what the violation of the Rules of Procedure is, because the dignity of the Assembly has been violated, the Honored Chairman. I'm just gonna say one more time, maybe I don't know how best to plead as someone else, but I'm gonna try it the way I know it, the wrong information was used. The data is not that the Roma Party is in the coalition, but that the Roma Democratic Party is in the coalition, and that party that has been certified by DS mandates when it was in power in Novi Sad at the beginning and the same party that is with them in the coalition in Odzac. I just wanted to tell the truth what it was about. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20851	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20852	My impression is that there are only two opposition parties in this assembly, which are LDP and DSS. It's seen from all the debates so far. We are not the ones who offer ourselves every day whether one, whether another ruling party, where in the words of the party's leader and the officials can be seen regretting some past times and participation in power. We stick to our policy, always the same, consistently. Let me just mention, in 2008, when we were in power, when we had the Prime Minister, because of political disagreement, we called elections to have the people decide what kind of policy they want. It's the DSS's position, and we'll always stick to it. That doesn't mean we should always be against everything. As a man, my life motto is to try to find something good in everything and everyone. It's a Christian approach. I try to find something good in every law, every man, you, and every other person, and hope it's better than what's wrong with the law, every man, because I think everyone has the right to make a mistake, to fix that mistake, and to give everyone a new chance. It's my life motto, and that's how I approach. You have the opportunity, as an opposition party, to show that you are an opposition party, to harshly criticise the government, and that in this way you will behave rather than be a little opposition, and then in another sentence that we are trying to say, not you, but your colleagues, that they are sorry that you are not an opposition. The second question, I said that Minister Mrkonjic is nice to me and I stay, I wish he was there to explain to me - why in 2010 he submitted a request for the discharge of Director Drobnjak, and the government did not accept it? Who from the government didn't accept it in 2010, if Minister Mrkonjic put up with it? Who in the government in 2010 did not accept this initiative? (President: Time. ) It is known who led the government then, President Cvetkovic, who was from your party. You can't say you don't have any responsibility... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20853	Thank you, Mr. Michael. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20854	I'd like to know where Mr. Mihajlov found something Christian in this law on taking over JP's "Serb Roads" according to companies based on unmistakable obligations. I hope God forgives those who vote for him. On the other hand, I do apologize to Mr. Shane. He's really right. He is not his coalition party in Novi Sad with SNS and SPS. It's a party, a group of citizens representing themselves as representatives of the Roma, and in fact they were buying votes, there are criminal charges... (President: Mr. Veselinović, please. In that sense, it stands to be corrected so that there will be no misunderstanding and I truly apologize to Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20855	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Shain, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20856	I called earlier. You weren't there at the time, so your colleague said she didn't give up the replica, but since you're giving up, then let me get back to you. Just to remind you what it's all about so it doesn't turn out that I missed out on the subject. It's about my colleague saying I don't have the right to represent the Roma and to be justified in front of you so they won't take my word for it. Dear colleague, you are right that I have no right to share a package with Roma unlike those of you who have. However, I understand that you haven't read the Roma Party program that says that we represent socially endangered categories, but I don't understand that you haven't read your program and that your program doesn't say anywhere that you should do what you did, that at the National Council session, you're setting up a man from the DS who will be tutoring those organizations. That time has passed. You have to accept that. It is no accident that a member of the main DS board, which is Roma, disagrees with your policy. What's this about? It's about one real thing. I can in my program, along with my members, define who I want to present and in democracy no one can make anyone look like he wants to represent. We have defined ourselves, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, we represent the Roma National Community and socially endangered categories. If anyone has a problem with it, have the initiative to change the Constitution, change the laws in Serbia, but then they must know that in his party's programme, which is defined as the left, it was accepted and they voted for it. I really don't want to insult any of your other members and now tell you what the left means and who can lead the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20857	Thank you. We interrupt the line, please, since we're away from the topic. It's my duty to take care of dignity. So, since we went off topic, I'm giving my word to the next registered speaker. Here you are, Mr. Michael, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20858	You hurt Rule 27's Rules of Procedure, holding a session, because you didn't give me your word because Mr. Veselinović explicitly said what I see Christianly in this law. Simply, you have to give me, because he misread what I was saying, wrongly or maliciously, or perhaps he didn't listen to the debate in principle, when we sharply criticised this law and in the debate in principle today. That way it can lead someone into confusion, that someone thinks we're going to uphold this law. No, I don't. But give me the right to a replica, simply to answer Mr. Veselinović in a way that needs to be answered, not to deny me the right to the replica, and I am explicitly mentioned and wrongly interpreted what I said both in the debate and in the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20859	Mr. Mihajlov, I do not believe that a member of 27 has been injured, as Article 104 determines that the right to the replica is decided by the chairman. So, I decided to break these lines, given that we're away from the subject, as I said. The next reported word is MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20860	I'm going to make a small contribution to this meeting today, and I'm not going to say, on a proposal from my PUPS colleagues, I'm giving up the next speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20861	Thank you. The next speaker is Sinisa Lazic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20862	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just to re-emphasise that I have appealed that every authority here in the country, the province, the city of Belgrade and local self-government, each in its own way, liquidates debts towards travel organizations, for the simple reason that the tolls, not only workers, but also owners, are not only directors, in a difficult situation. Machines are often pawned, cannot be launched until they pay debts to banks, and they cannot pay debts to banks because they owe them, from local self-governments that owe almost two billion, the city of Belgrade two billion, the Capital Investment Fund a billion, and what is unofficially said is that only according to organisations arrested by Borovica had, that only according to travel organisations they owe a billion and 700 million. I appeal to each body to owe to the travel organisations its debts and to keep these low-building travel companies liquid. That's the only reason I'm voting for this bill, to turn a certain debt into a public debt. Also, municipalities, municipalities of the local self-government municipality, the city of Belgrade, the province, must find ways to liquidate these debts. I also said, and here I underline, I didn't draw, say, the JKP "Belgrade Road". For the first six months of the previous year, he made a debt of billions and 13 million. I even know the party that controlled it, but I won't mention it. In the same way, they liquidate debt as the state does or in a similar way in order to get to the money, pay the wages, unblock the machinery, and they can participate further in the work. That's what we were talking about most of the time here. We all agree on that. The next thing, everything that was criminal, whether it was done by the Government from 2000 to 2003, until 2006, until 2007, from 2008 to 2012, all the directors of the travel companies were subject to control and criminal prosecution if they did something, of course, and the directors of travel organisations, the JKP "Belgrade Roads", "Serbian Roads", etc., various road companies and businesses that made contracts with them. This should be subject to criminal prosecution, to be subject to investigation, but we have to pay debts to get travel companies and their employees to unblock the mechanism, to get out of it. It's not the debt of the state of 8.7 billion, it's the total debt both made by local self-government and city and provinces and states, and the state has less than one-third of the debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20863	Thank you. Next reported is MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20864	Respected chairman, I will talk about how to address this problem, linked to article 1 submitted by counterpart Judita Popovic. To this end, it is also a matter of the minister who is the authorised representative today. I'm curious -- did the Serbian Roads Corporation make a contract with the firm "Technokop"? It's about the electronic toll collection. What I know is that the company's workers were provided with a 4,000-euro grant per worker and that was done by Finance, Economy and Regional Development Minister Mladjan Dinkic. It was all together, it was both economics and regional development. The other thing is what's obvious and it's always an attack on DS. I'll just remind you that the arrival of this government has replaced as many as 3,000 officials, that the directors of the galleries and even the officials of Safe Women's Houses and the Institutes for making tapestry, imagine respected citizens. In the budget rebalancing, we have seen that for the office of quick answers, which is, of course, necessary, an 8.8 or 9 billion dinars. That's one huge amount from the budget. The office has three times the budget of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The office's budget should be slightly reduced, so that the 132 agencies, as many as there are in Serbia, can be reduced to the cost of economic ambassadors, could in some ways cover these debts without further borrowing. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the last construction of the 150km railway in Serbia was at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, and that the bridge that was built in Belgrade and which was constantly attacked here in the Assembly -- the first new bridge of that size built in Serbia, back in the days of Tito. All that has been done well and what the DS has been doing here is being criticised, and it is forgotten that 60% of the government in the past term is now making the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20865	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20866	Thank you, Vice President. We are still here to debate the amendment to Article 1 which has submitted to the LDP. All the amendments we have submitted to this law, we have submitted to the MPs, to explain to the citizens of Serbia why the LDP is against the burden of all citizens of Serbia to transfer the debt to the public enterprise of 11.5m euros. It is obvious that neither the Deputy Prime Minister nor anyone can answer where the debt of a billion and 300 million of the Public Enterprise "The Way of Serbia" originates. For this reason, we believe, since I assume that you, the chairman, will set a break now from an hour or a little later, according to the Rules of Procedure, we believe that Minister Milutin Mrkonjic should come here and respond – where is the 11.5m-euro debt from? As Minister Dinkic said in December of last year that a debt was agreed with the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" on all balances, worth five billion or 45m euros, that it was all paid, again on the burden of Serbian citizens, where did these annexes come from? Instead of Minister Mrkonjic building, I don't know if he's building or negotiating concerts today, I think it's his place to come here before the MPs and to clarify that we wouldn't be guessing whether he's a 1991 debt, whether it's a 1992 debt from 2000, 2008 or 2010 to come and tell me where the $11.5m debt came from.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20867	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Risticevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 127th and 128th. Article 127(1): "The MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to log out when leaving the hall. "Article 128: "The MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly." I am asking that precisely at this moment be determined whether the system is a People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic? Since it's a moral gromada that, when you come across, you're trying to correct and return his card to the secretary, he thinks it's stealing. So, please, now you tell me who's required to determine if that moral size is currently in the O.R.? Whoa, there he is. Not anymore. So, I'm asking to determine whether in the time I was talking about him in the system, whether he faked his presence at the National Assembly session, whether he might have walked around the kitchen, whether he might have walked around the restaurant, whether he might have walked around the city of Belgrade, perhaps went a little further, to the town of Bodrum, to Thessaloniki, given that he has been persistently over some of his newspapers these days, under the quotes, because the newspapers can't be anyone's, trying to spread information about the disappearance of his card. Just before, a colleague did something similar to some other MPs and tried to correct the injustice, that is, this irregularity that Srdjan Milivojevic staged. So, I'm asking to determine if he was in the system the moment I advertised the Rules of Procedure, whether he showed himself as if he was in an O.R. but he wasn't, and you're all witnessing that he's been gone for over an hour and that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you're taking some steps. Believe me, I wouldn't advertise this, it happens that people forget, but he does this regularly and since at the beginning of the session he gave everyone a lecture, it's time for him to be the subject of some advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20869	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, I remind you that only the chairman can do harm to the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking professional services that if there are any cards in the systems, they can pick them up. We're going back to work. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Did you want to do this or your amendment? You have to act faster. So we're going back to the previous amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20870	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we really don't understand why you haven't decided to withdraw this law from the procedure yet. We've been discussing the first member of the law for hours, and it's clear how destructive this whole law is. So it would really be necessary to make some order in Serbia, to know who is taking the loans, why he spends those loans, for which he spends purposes, and how he will justify the spending of Serbia's citizens' common funds. Because it is the citizens of Serbia who pay taxes. Therefore, when we talk about Article 2, it would be good, when a law like this is proposed, which in itself is a scandal, to deliver material along with the law. So what does a billion and 346 million dinars apply to? To what obligations? How did these obligations come to be? To whom are these obligations actually promised as cash payments? We don't have relevant documents here, based on which we as parliamentarians can estimate whether these invoices are based on which the real invoices were created, or whether there are bloated invoices or if there are some interest that you are calculating at some green rates? It is very important that if you decide to put all the irresponsibleness, inability, obviously great greed on the citizens of Serbia, you also say that you have reached a figure that is not so small? We discussed in this parliament in December some guarantees from public enterprises "Srbigas", "JAT", "The Railway of Serbia". So the same target, same distance. Almost every month we have either some kind of guarantee as a state or we have a turn of some debt of a public enterprise into a public debt. It is that there is no systemic solution to the functioning and operation of public enterprises that are obviously working on how they are being paid, piled up their debts, and in the end we are in parliament discussing for hours what kind of debt it is. Therefore, in your explanation, you have also stated here that certain system solutions are being worked on and that some changes have been proposed in terms of system laws that will prevent these and similar situations because it is expected that tomorrow we will have the same situation in this and about "Serbigas" and about "JAT" and about "Serb Railways", and that is just one part of all those big losers of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20871	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Does anyone want a word on the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and MilicaRadovic? The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20872	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mrs Grubjesic, I really can't say how sorry I am that today is not Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic to talk to him about all these problems. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the place: I am not sorry. I'd like a colleague from the SPS Parliament Club not toss. This is a matter of culture, education and certainly a relationship to the work that each of us is doing here. I think it would be good if you were already dragging your hand into the pocket of Serbian citizens, taking them a billion and 350 million dinars to explain why it is doing so in this House. We are having a single debate, so the commitments of JP "The Paths of Serbia" and the RFZO and these two laws are exactly the same. So the same number of members, the same text, just instead of the health fund, are "Serbian Ways". We were shocked last time this law came into assembly procedure immediately after the draft budget for 2013. On that occasion, we did not get an answer from Finance Minister Mr Dinkic why the 13 billion were hidden from the people's MPs and from the citizens of Serbia because it was not shown in the deficit. Why did that go into that hidden part? We didn't get an answer, although we were looking for it a few days ago when we were discussing budget rebalancing here, but we were aware that it would have to be Minister Dinkic, as well as now that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was supposed to be here, to explain to us the reasons for such a thing. Because when you make a 13 billion mistake and you bring it down to five, then it turns out that you saved those eight billion. We told an analogous story to the whole story that we ran about the health fund this time when we were talking about "The Ways of Serbia". It's just saying that the same problems are being repeated, that mistakes aren't being right and timely, but we're discussing something again, and we don't know what we're talking about. Again, we are not sure what amounts we are talking about, what companies we are talking about, how much the state of Serbia needs to pay back and who. So something similar is going to happen to this law. We don't know how this amount came about again? Who said it was a billion and 350 million dinars? As the Health Fund has been systematically robbed and robbed, so have Serbian Roads in previous years. Does this law provide for better control of the inflow of funds in Serbia's "roads" and expenditures they have? I'm sure you don't. Is the bill showing when this debt came out, what we're looking for by the amendment that we filed on this bill? Why were JP's plans to "Serbian Ways" breached? Does the adoption of this law mean that "Serbian Ways" will have no losses in 2013? To reboot them, we're going back to zero, and now it's going to be a promising and successful public enterprise. Do the citizens of Serbia know anything about this? No, I don't. It is their obligation to pay for the registration of the vehicle, to pay for the fuel, to drive through the holes, either on highways, corridors, motorcycles, or I don't know what kind of traffic, to either hit the concrete stage or to change the dioptria so that it doesn't happen to them. The only thing we know is that in Serbia, every year billions of dinars are spent on road maintenance, that this maintenance of roads is certainly the most expensive bar to say in the Western Balkans that this is modern today. We know that no tenders are being explored, we know that the Public Procurement Act is often being violated, we know that our companies are getting jobs as subcontractors, we know that they are obliged to pay VAT, unlike foreign companies that have received a job through a basic contract, we know that contracts are being annexed, that there are billions of Serbian citizens disappearing. How's our road quality? That's what I think it's pointless to talk about right now. How many people died in the previous period? Trying to catch a thread, the idea that this 1,350,000 million million will be paid to "The Ways of Serbia" or turn into a public debt, has come to the conclusion that it is a debt that has been created since January of the month, and how much the total debt still does not know. Today we've heard that five billion, that 7.8 billion, is 8.7 billion, how can we debate some law and turn a public enterprise into a public debt if we don't know what its total debt is? What does it mean to iron a debt of 1,350,000 million for the previous few months, i.e. from January to April 1, this year? Who does this money go to? How much will certain companies dealing with the road economy get? Will the money be given to liquid companies, or the ones that are in the blockade? Is the money going to be paid to MB Miljkovic? Is he going to get a Serbian highway? Whether he's going to get a highway, or some other firm that suddenly appeared in a 1992 contract. There are no companies on the list of those companies that are supposed to maintain roads? Some have magically appeared since 2008, and are now successful and are now owed to them. The Democratic Party of Serbia, with its amendment, is asking for a very simple thing -- to make a list of creditors, means all those companies to whom it is owed, to know what the amount, the contract and that contract, concluded then and then, in value to that and that, for the job and that and whether the job is finished or not. Then let's see if someone's messing with the money, then comes here to parliament and asks for private projects and personal combinations to be covered from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. You can't see any of that from this law. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted the DSS amendment, we have even left a 15-day deadline for this list to be delivered to us, because apparently, that list exists. I can't believe the government decided to send this to the congregation without having previously considered and talked about it or not. Why is he hiding who he owes money to? Who's the biggest trustee we'd like to know? Who's responsible for this? Is someone being replaced for this? Is someone detained in accordance with a zero-tolerance rate on crime and corruption? No, I don't. Mr Dinkic, in the bill of this law, really brilliantly once again, because it explains that companies are in a difficult material situation. We really didn't know that until this came to the assembly procedure, that the public enterprises of "The Ways of Serbia" didn't have enough means to make peace, that's something we've been discussing for the last five years in this House, that the Republic of Serbia plans to take on unsettled commitments. What does the plan mean? Is he taking the liabilities of 1,350,000 million or is he planning to take over those six, seven or eight billion imaginary ones, because we don't know the exact amount of these debts. An analysis of the effects of the law consists of the application of this law and the "Serb Roads" will become a liquid enterprise and will be able to carry out the commitments made to the toll companies over a long period of time. I'd really like that, but I'm sure you won't be coming next time, I'm sure you're telling us about it, as I'm sure Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic won't come to talk about roads and corridors, including public company debts. It's not clear to me that there's some set of system laws that need to change this in terms of this law as here, you vote that 1,350,000 million million million, and then we'll do it by law, and then we'll create a liquid company from one failed enterprise. In the government's explanation, the amendment is not accepted because the bill regulates the way and the procedure and dynamics of the reconciliation of obligations. Nothing but a date, except a deadline in which months it will be paid and amounting to that 1,350,000 million. We don't know anything more about any other means. Furthermore, in an explanation of why the DSS amendment is rejected, the debt data is collected by the Ministry of Transport and delivered to the government for consideration and adoption. The total debt is known, uncontested and represents the total debt of JP "Serb Roads", according to travellers and other societies. Did you vote for this, Mrs Grubeshic? You're a member of the government. He's indisputable, well-known and represents a total debt. So this was government, tell us one digit, the debt is x billion. I believe that you are uncomfortable and you are in an awkward situation, not directed to you and don't mind us, but these are the answers we are looking for, not as MPs, but as citizens of Serbia who are not ready to suffer the harrass invariably. This is really becoming a serious problem and insolence. The problem is that these 1,350,000 million dinars are not paid by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia pay. The problem is that, in essence, this law is nothing more than a failure to save a failed public enterprise, rescue party personnel who can play a particular job and be good at campaigning, so that they can be rewarded after the next elections and continue to do the job, unfortunately, using funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and to the detriment of all Serbian citizens. This is an organized tile, funded by the state, and it must once stand in the way and let's talk openly about it and when you haven't already decided to withdraw this law from the procedure, I'm sure we'll discuss this again, not just about "The Ways of Serbia", but about many other public enterprises, then at least accept the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20873	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would be very pleased to have Minister Mrkonjic sitting next to you, to explain to us all what we asked in the principle debate and to remove all the concerns we had at the time, and today we are giving another more interesting debate than it was in principle. As you have had the opportunity to hear, we have submitted a perfectly reasonable amendment, which at least would remove some of the doubts that have been raised in this House since this morning. It is an amendment that says that the component of this law should be a list of all creditors with the full and precise height of each claim individually. So that, of course, when we get that information, we know who is owed to, what are the travel companies, and what is the amount of individual claims each of them makes towards JP "Serbia's Ways". We like this, since we don't have that information, we really don't know anything by adopting this law, except for the amount that needs to be converted into a public debt. I really think it's more than unserious. I think it was necessary to approach with a much higher dose of seriousness when this law was planned, especially because we are increasing public debt in a situation where, according to official statistics, it is now 59% of GDP at a time when revenues will be less than 10% compared to the budget deficits projected by 56 billion dinars. It's really unserious for this kind of way that we're discussing an additional increase in public debt today. So there was nothing more normal than to accept the amendment of the DSS, which I repeat, is more than reasonable and that at least partially removes all the misunderstandings that MPs have at the moment they have to vote for this law. And of course we're doing that, we're actually increasing the public debt without even knowing the basis for which calculations, based on which documents, based on which contracts, based on any parameter, we're coming to this amount that we're discussing today. To make the matter worse, when we discussed details of budget rebalancing, we then heard from the Prime Minister, from Mr Dinkic, that he thought, because he had been having a conversation in December last year with the travel companies, that he was completely long travel companies calmed down, because then, as far as he understood, about five billion dinars, but that he was also surprised from now on by this additional amount of one billion and 350 million dinars. When he, as finance minister, is surprised that we, the MPs, are not surprised, how can you expect us to keep our mouths shut and that this debate goes completely without our reaction? That's impossible. If the finance minister doesn't know where this debt came from, how should I know how the citizens of Serbia know, and I will bear responsibility, or MPs in the National Assembly, because they will vote for it or against it. Nevertheless, it will give legitimacy to such a single bill that is truly truly, truly nakaradam. Of course, I wouldn't want us to be in this reunion again, perhaps with another minister where we can correct the amount that's been set out today in this bill. Why do we insist on this law? Because we believe that in every normal state it would be the most natural requirement, that the MPs know who, how, at what height, made the debt that we are discussing today and which we are turning into a public debt. On the other hand, we have a very unpleasant experience behind us. In fact, in December of last year, we discussed, although with the other minister, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, Health Minister, the proposal of another law on the taking over of health institutions' obligations towards wholesales, and also, in that law, one single parameter, that is, to say the fact that we had is the level of public debt that we adopted at that time. It was about a sum of 13 billion dinars. We also insisted, and when we submitted the amendment most discussed in the Assembly at the time, that we were looking for a list of all creditors with a precise level of demand, of course that debate went on as if nothing had happened. We passed that law, and what's going on today? We've got him in the process again today. Today, six months later, we're discussing the same law again, but this time, it's a completely different amount. Then who was right? So, listen to us a little bit, so we're not talking nonsense here. Listen to us a little bit once when we talk clearly about things that are on the agenda. We are here not defending the colors of the political party we belong to, but talking about things that are more than public interest. I really don't get it. So we have behind us one mistake that we made in December last year. Today, the same law appears in the congregation with a completely different amount, and who is responsible for it? Are we ever going to draw a line on who's once in the state responsible for something that's done? No, I don't. It's obviously not there. Then let's not wonder what our state of affairs is like. This bill that we passed in December last year had one member of the law, it seems to me that it is a member of the 5th which is identical, if not the same in this same law of Article 5, where it is said that the Government will, once the bill is passed, transfer a certain amount to public debt, by a subsequent special act, determine the height of each individual claim on the proposal, then the Minister of Health, now the Ministry of Transport. That's amazing. I guess today, at the moment we adopt that law, it should be an integral part of this text of the law, that we can know what we're doing, what we're adopting today. It's amazing to me that we didn't get an answer to any of the only questions. To tell you the truth, I'm sorry that you're here today and you have to listen to all this, but I also don't really understand why those who are most responsible for the situation in travel companies, or at least to say indirectly in charge of all this, are not here with us in the Assembly today. The fact is that we have made an obvious mistake and that this mistake as things stand is still real and I really don't want us to see each other again on the same occasion with some perhaps changed amount in the bill that the government is going to give us over the next six months, and that is why I'm asking you to think again about the arguments of the amendment itself that we have proposed. We really believe that without it, this purpose of the law itself will not be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20875	Thank you. Mr Siniša Lazic's next entry for the word. Here you go. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the site: I am not in the system, I signed up for the replica. ) You, Mr Radenkovic, are not authorized to this point so you do not have the right to reply on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20876	Dear ladies and gentlemen, indeed this amendment tabled by representatives of the DSS Group is quite reasonable. The first is reasonable because it does not cover the whole period and what is the period from April 1st to July 15th. So it's a completely discriminatory story and it's even more disputable why you refused to explain not accepting this amendment. The amendment clearly states that the public undertaking has concluded contracts with undertakings with the maintenance of these routes and that, on the basis of these contracts, services have been performed and on the basis of these contracts, this debt has been made, and later, in the context of the interpretation that these contracts are not an integral part of this law, under which you will meet the obligations of these undertakings. What, then, is the legal basis in general, to admit that this is the public debt of the Republic of Serbia? There are some things that don't add up, and this is some explanation for reasons, and it's not because of the sincere help of the road economy and the infrastructure of our country, which is indeed in a catastrophic state. Now, if we look at all of this with one of those rational approaches, we see that for years infrastructure, maybe somewhere since the '70s, where the biggest separation was from the price of road maintenance fuel, that everything is now being used, just not for where it's supposed to be, it's in the travel network. I don't see why the Government of the Republic of Serbia didn't accept this proposal, caught the whole period. Does this mean that you will again send these 1 April travel companies to business banks in which they will re-negotiate under unfavorable conditions on the honorary word of the ministry and thus threaten their liquidity again. Is that a mechanism? Why didn't you accept all this, help the Public Enterprise of the Republic of Serbia, which I'm sure didn't self-initiately conclude these contracts and the plan and the programme of work of the public enterprise of Serbia, was adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I'm sure that as a member of the Government, you were familiar with the plan and the programme of work of the Public Enterprise of Serbia, and you boasted that we first adopted the budget last year, somewhere in the first half of December, that we predicted everything, that we had prevented bankruptcy, that we had prevented additional borrowing, that we had done a thousand good things, and now, somewhere in the middle of this year, we are facing these problems. Is this again a ceasefire, a strike prevention announced by the pathway, which will again after this period in which you have stated that you will settle this debt? The second thing, which is questionable in this explanation, is that it is said that the obligation of the Ministry of Transport is to deliver each individual claim to the Government for adoption, which is why the Ministry of Finance and Business will pay the Public Debt Administration instead of a public enterprise. Does this mean that the Ministry will then make priorities, does this mean that the Ministry of Traffic will, in any way, send some of these proposals, because it's been defined to divide something into three parts? Is that defined, clearly arranged what your priorities will be, who will be in that first third, who in the second, who in the third? It was simply a lot of undefined things, and it was really quite reasonable to make an analysis, cost structure, and in such a way to cover this period behind it, and to sincerely help the travel economy and to help people who work in these systems, and to help those of us who travel these roads and who use this infrastructure that we need later and for some investments and for everything else that is important for this country. Thanks-
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20877	Thank you. Next, MP Dejan Radenkovic applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20878	Thank you. I don't know where to start. Of course this amendment was not accepted. It's just that we can move here by tomorrow. Of course, everyone will draw water on their own guideway as it suits him, but Serbian citizens best recognize and give their last word to the elections. So there's no reason for anyone to be afraid. As for the SPS, in previous elections, however criticised, it doubled the number of votes and increased its percentage. When we talk about putting your hand in your pocket, of course everyone needs to be found in the face of justice, as it seems now. To remind some colleagues when the travel companies were privatized, during what period. Let them answer themselves, and let them say when they are privatised, why they are privatised, why they did not remain state-owned, what intentions there were, whose members are now being detained and are in prison and former ministers. It's easy to say, toss and not toss. It is my pleasure to have our former colleague, current Minister Susana Grubjesic. I don't see why she should be sorry. She's competent to tell us about it and that's why I just threw how normal it is in a parliamentary life. It's nothing rude. When some colleagues wonder about the quality of the roads, as far as I know, the DSS site says that the Vice-President of the Executive Board is a certain Zoran Pesovic who works at JP "The Paths of Serbia" on the affairs of standards and quality. There's no need for anyone to ask us here and bother the citizens with these questions. Turn your vice president to the executive board and ask him what quality he is and how standards are made. Why would they be doing any flat-rates here, in part? I may suffer criticism about what I say, but it's normal for them to agree with someone. Maybe it's good and maybe Col. Milica Radovic is right, that we should have a simple list, which is debts, on what basis. So, it's nothing at all, and it doesn't have to run away from it, from that fact, I don't see any reason, but if we go into those analyses, I'm afraid it's going to drag us a lot further into the past, and it can cause a lot of other procedures and processes that are going to take place against some former ministers and members of some of the parties sitting here in parliament. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20879	Thank you. National MP Milica Radovic, right on line. (Miroslav Petkovic, from town: Replica. You can't all get the right to a replica. The word has Mrs. Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20880	Do I really not understand whether Mr Radenkovic supports the amendment or not? At first he said it was quite logical that the amendment was rejected, and now he finally said he had nothing against my proposal, that it should be put into this text of the law a list of all creditors with the height of individual claims and that he should represent an integral part of the text of the law. As for fear, Mr. Radenkovic, we have no fear whatsoever. You're free to go, comb into the past as long as you want. You won't be able to find us anything, because if you could, you could have done it a few times by now. We're not afraid for our own safety, but I think we should all discuss it a little more and think differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20881	Thank you. National MP Dejan Radenkovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20882	I didn't mean anything personal that you should be afraid of. Those who did something should be afraid. I don't want to mention who the former minister is and who he is now in prison for these devastating privatisations that were conducted during that period and that 500 thousand people took to the streets. Of course, it's all because of what we have now. Of course, the write-off of the Paris debt during that period, huge revenues from privatisation. When all this has stopped, then we enter the borrowing period, which is normal, and then we need to question where all that money went, how it was washed. I'm a member of the KiM Survey Committee, for spending budgets on KIM. It's like when there's an exit line when budget revenues are at stake, so we also have huge expenditures and huge investments in that period in those years towards Kosovo. That's why we're running into buildings that aren't there at all. I'm telling you, don't jump into your stomach. Let's talk very constructively. I agree, I will accept every argument and support it. It doesn't matter what it may not be, as the opposition says in this political life, that the aprioriers reject what the opposition accepts. So, make constructive suggestions and there's no reason for us to accept it and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20883	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20884	Thank you. Madam Chairman, I think I had the right to replicate my colleagues' previous exposure to Radenkovic, but good. Obviously, I'm misread. I'm sorry, I said that this is how the government puts its hand in the pocket of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20885	Mr. Petkovic, tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20886	Article 107 of the wrong interpretation. This way, the government kidnaps Serbian citizens 1,350,000 as probably the first tranche of this year, so in three months, another one, at the end of the year, etc. I understand completely...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20887	Mr. Petkovic, you've been given a word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Stick to the Rules of Procedure. So explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20888	I'm saying what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, I'm being misread. Someone realized that he should defend his minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20889	You didn't get the right to a replica, you got the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please stick to the Businessman. Explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20890	That's exactly what I'm saying. The Rules of Procedure have been injured by misreading me. I know what I was saying. Someone else figured it out and tried to defend their minister to whom we do not forgive the golden dawns and the moon above Montenegro, but the 1,350,000 made by his public enterprise. If you don't understand, let it be for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you for giving me the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20891	Thank you. The replica was also reported by Milica Radovic and DejanMajlov. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20892	I'm directly mentioned. Mr. Radenkovic, as I understand it, you have a Minister of Interior who is still in that position and I don't think he's disabled in his work. If there's anything you think is suspicious, comb, go back in time, process, but don't threaten. That time has passed. Don't threaten, there's no need for that. When you tell us about the privatisations, I'll just remind you of one small piece of information. In 2008, following the arrest of Milo Djuraskovic, "Nibens Group", taken to bankruptcy or wherever, the travel company "MB Miljkovic", which today is one of the main and possibly leading travel companies in the travel business, was somehow booming. I think you should know a lot more than I do when it comes to MB Miljkovic, and that's why I ask you to deal with these things primarily, and that simply there's yours, if you have some responsibility, don't cover up by calling the past which, when it comes to us and when it comes to the DSS, is completely clean.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20893	Thank you. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, right on behalf of the DSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20894	Mr. Radenkovic, you mentioned Mr. Pesovic. Mr. Pesovic has repeatedly pointed out in his work in the domain of his work to various irregularities, or it was not taken into account. Don't take honorable people in your mouth without knowing what they were doing. If you want, I'll prepare you all the objections they have and I'll bring you the next time beautifully photocopied, so you go straight to your police minister and then you talk about the responsible. You've had a police minister since 2008. The Democratic Party of Serbia has suffered chicana since 2008. Everything we've done since 2004 to 2008 has been explored and we don't mind. I hope so, and I've made sure that every authority has to file a bill and that the future authority that comes after that has to check that everything was in accordance with the law. We'll insist on that. Nobody burned until dawn, so neither will yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20895	Thank you. National MP Dejan Radenkovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20896	They say we're threatening? We're not threatening anyone. Simply, the workers of the travel companies asked to expand the investigation to all the travel companies. We don't have a selective approach when it comes to reviewing privatisations. There are no protected ones, that's what Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and the SPS president said several times. It doesn't matter who's a party member. I don't know why it hurts. If someone broke the law we stand firm behind that he should be found where he belongs. There's no party protection here. It is simply our obligation if we want to join the EU. Because some people are afraid, they probably know what they were doing. It doesn't apply personally to anyone sitting here. I didn't speak personally if anyone here was doing anything personal. If someone needs to protect someone else and if they have obligations to do so, let them do so. We don't have any SPS, and we just won't have any. I speak on behalf of the MPs' club, on behalf of the SPS. As for Mr. Pesovic, I merely cited him as an example. If you already have that information, why didn't you bring it all up here today? Why didn't Mr. Pesovic go to the D.A.'s office? Why hasn't Mr. Pesovic reported it so far? So, he's nice to receive a salary and who was he reporting it to? What are you doing with that? What are you giving me? You're the one who's supposed to hand it over, where it's your duty. If you have knowledge, and all these years you've been covering it up, you're complicit in it. Don't accuse anyone else with a name and a last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20897	Thank you. Next reported word... . Replica? Please, let's finish the replicas, since we're away from the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20898	You're taking Mr. Pesovic in your mouth. He said what he had. Look to your party friends, Mr. Drobnjak, Mr. Mrkonjic and the others, and you will understand what he has pointed to, to the place where he needs it and to the one who needs it. Why is that in the drawer? That's your answer. Why are certain items in drawers and why are the police and the D.A.'s office full of drawers? That's the topic we need to talk about and that's what you're talking about, Mr. Radenkovic. That's what we expect. I understand that the easiest way to hit the DSS, which has been the opposition since 2008, is not disputed and we are not now offering ourselves to power as we used to. It's not a dispute, but why are some things in drawers? Against Mr. Drobnjak, two criminal charges have been filed. One was submitted by the State Auditor, the authority of this state, whom this Assembly chose. Why isn't that being processed? Who's protecting him? Who has protected Mr. Drobnjak since his shift in 2010, when such a proposal was brought to the government? Why don't we talk about it? If you want to talk about responsibility, let's talk about responsibility and not hide, now you're behind this, or like this. No, behind some people who aren't here to answer you. We who are here are here to answer you. Ask us, Mr. Vesenovic, Mr. Djuric, who is from the SNS and let us talk here. Finally, the prosecutions open their drawers and get those drawers out for a while. That's what justice and justice is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20899	Thank you. We really need to break the line. We've moved away from the darkness. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20900	The chairman, I think you were wrong not to give the word to Mr Radenkovic now, because you, but we also did not realize until a moment ago that Mr Radenkovic was here as a representative of the government, the truth, as future minister of infrastructure and that he has a lot of right to answer the question of MPs. We were amazed by the fact that Mrs Grubjesic has been persistently silent about all the issues for almost two days, but it was likely in agreement with Mr Radenkovic that some agreement was made that he would answer MPs' questions about the catastrophic state of travel, about the new borrowing of Serbian citizens, I would also say about many other issues. Mr. Radenkovic, in that capacity, I would like to ask a few questions. First of all, what kind of relationship will he have with the director of "The Way of Serbia"...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20901	Mr. Veselinović, ask him that a little later when we finish this session, since it is our turn to return to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20902	Now I ask the principle question – what would happen if Mr. Radenkovic became a minister, what would his relationship be with the director of "The Way of Serbia", Mr. Drobnjak and the way he worked and ran this road company and put him in a very serious situation that threatens the state of Serbia? It is also a very serious question how to continue to face the fact that our paths are in very poor shape, and that the state has no money, and that JP "Serb Roads" has spent what little money the state has entrusted them with, that these roads will be maintained in the coming period. I would also like to ask about Mr. Vukic's opinion – the oak should be cut. Would Mr. Radenkovic support such an idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20903	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20904	I didn't answer as a character of what my colleague Janko... When he decides who's going to be in government, unfortunately theirs, as far as I can tell, things aren't going to work out soon, thank him for everything. What some media are writing has nothing to do with it. I am here as MP in front of the SPS, and I will give answers only as far as my portfolio is concerned, as MP and as chairman of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, spatial planning and telecommunications, so I will understand this issue. First of all, I have to say, as far as Mr. Zoran Drobnjak is concerned, who is director of the Road, we as the new government have been found. That's what Mr. Dejan Michael knows best because he was the secretary of the government and he was left in some way. We were not acting vengefully in the spirit of replacing all those in some positions because they were members of another party or were appointed by another government. That's how it happens now. This debate is now going a little bit inconclusive over time. As far as oak is concerned, I gave the press my opinion. I'm here in the position of a divided personality. On the one hand, I am a member of the formal Zelenih parliamentary group, and on the other hand I am the chairman of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee. All consent has been obtained and no one has ever filed any objection and that oak is not shown to be a public good. We really need to do everything we can to find a way to keep him safe, but why didn't the people in that community react in time?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20905	Time. You've been given the right to a replica, and I'm asking you to follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20906	How did I get the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20907	Because before you did, Mr. Djuric came forward. Since you are mentioned, I have given you a replica of Mr. Veselinović's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20908	I've answered the amendment and we'll continue the debate after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20909	I didn't notice. All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20910	I have simply made a proposal to hold a session of the committee to which we will invite Minister Velimir Ilic and other relevant people from the professional public, to see what we should do. An oak like an oak can't be a theme. The oak can be a symbol of not all topics in this country. We can't deal with oak now, and our factories are polluting us, poisoning our rivers, poisoning our flora and fauna. We have so many environmental problems. It's okay, I say, let the oak become a symbol of it, of resistance and of all themes to impose and solve these problems and that's the obligation of all of us sitting here. Don't let the oak be polished. It has nothing to do with politics. It's a symbol of fighting for a better life, for a better future, for the future of our children. If we keep going like this, we're going to become an ordinary country where waste will be stored and we're going to do everything and everything, importing tires from other countries to recycle them here, is that what we're supposed to do? We didn't burn on those branches. This Serbia is rich, beautiful, and we must preserve the nature that God has given us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20911	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20912	It will be easy for the oak, Mr Radenkovic, but a member of the 2nd law that we are talking about – that the Republic of Serbia is taking over as a public debt from Article 1 of this law in the total nominal amount of 1,346,775,310 dinars. Mr. Radenkovic, I'm asking you, who is this money owed to? (President: Do not address the MP directly. ) I speak to you, Mr Radenkovic, and this is what I say to Mr Petronivic, who complains and shouts. First, because Minister Mrkonjic is a senior official of his party, as he said he would answer only questions from his portfolio, does not come to the Assembly. That's what we talked about at the beginning of this debate. Mr. Radenkovic wasn't here. Of course, I always look forward to it when he's here. These discussions are always interesting, but another reason why I should ask Mr Radenkovic is because the government's representatives are silent. I think this may be five, six hours since the debate on this law began. That's why I expect an answer from you, Mr. Radenkovic. If you agree with the amendment to deliver this parliament on July 15th a list of companies to which it is due, then say so. Then I expect that at least your parliamentary group will support the amendment in the voting day. Everything else, oak, not oak, God gives us a beautiful nature, it's more for Mr. Lazansky and the Miss election, but this is still the National Assembly. Here we are talking about taking over a public debt commitment of 11.5m euros. You've opened up some more questions. I'd love for you to be a minister, not to go into personnel solutions. I risk you telling me the same thing that happened to Mr. Veselinovic, so we don't ask about the government. That's right. We're not hoping to get into it. With Mr. Veselinović, you can see if it's different in his case. You've opened a very important question. I understand you're against the privatisation of the company. Not only does it bother you that some privatisations, we will see, will determine the courts, have been criminal, but that you are against the concept of privatisation at all. I have a big problem with that. I think Milutin Mrkonjic is a more progressive minister than you as a potential candidate, or at least as chairman of the Committee, who still has a lot of influence in both the party and this parliament on politics in this area. I think that's how debts are made, because they're Alibeg's straws, socially and stately. Do you think otherwise, Mr. Radenkovic? I realized that now young lions will come and create a new atmosphere in the government. Don't make Milutin Mrkonjic the most progressive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20913	MP Dejan Radenkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20914	I think we're slowly entering a phase of losing the sense of this debate. I think we've set out to replace the thesis. Again, when I come back, we're against privatisation. We are against the robbery privatisations that killed this country, destroyed and drove 500,000 workers to the streets. We're against everything that's been wrong. Don't remind me, Mr. Gjuric, you're relatively young in politics. Ask the president of your party, and every day we see in the media that he's quite rich, so he's got a lot of companies, and how did he get that money? Let's question that too. Don't throw it at me. I don't know why that's hitting you. Where did that money come from, from which privatisation? Who took percentages from whom? What'd you do? Why am I pulling capital out of these companies? Why did the workers end up on the streets? Where are those factories? They worked, they did something. The ones used in the waves of the so-called. The democratic changes that brought us all this, the one you can look freely into the eyes, which was used and highlighted as a candidate to bring down what was once, I say not all, of course, should have admitted your mistakes. This looks at the size of the SPS, unlike everyone else. Don't tell us. Serbian citizens know best. The consequences of democratic change are still felt today. Why didn't you bring us into Europe how many years ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20915	Time. It was a replica. National MP Milisav Petronijevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20916	Dear Chairman, I would like to apologize to the National Assembly for inappropriately reacting to one rudeness, when I commented from the bench on why the MP spoke to the MP. I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, for the Rules of Procedure expressly prohibit the MP from addressing the MP directly. That's rude. I answered, too, in an rude way, directly from the bench, not like this. I'll only finish one sentence. The Socialist Party of Serbia supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica and did not hide it, was in the government with the DS and everyone knows it and is now in this government, everyone knows it. We have no intention of apologizing to anyone, to justify ourselves to anyone. For us, the most important thing is what the citizens said, as they said last year when they doubled our votes. You have noticed that we do not participate in these polemics, believing that we should solve Serbia's problems today and Serbia in the future, not that we constantly have a theme of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20917	National MP Marko Atlagic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20918	The Honorable Chairman, violation of article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Let me explain it in two sentences. Nowhere in this amendment stands the illusion, let alone who was the director of which was in 2000 in "The Ways of Serbia", who embezzled from the director, who was and who would end up in prison, who he carried to, kept suitcases, etc. Let the police and the D.A. handle it. Let's get back to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20919	Thank you. You're certainly right, but we'll give the replica to Mr. Djuric first.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20920	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would say that Mr Radenkovic has gone the wrong way, so I will ask the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration – do you agree with the view of your coalition partner's representatives that for all the bad things that have happened in this country or that the five-octobaric changes happen. I don't feel like Mr. Radenkovic is paying my respects. I think it honors those who sit with him in government, heritage, I hope, among other things, the fluids of democratic changes of October 5th, and then allow someone to live on it like this. You allow the representatives of the political party who left the country after trying to steal the elections in which they lost, with salaries of 20 marks, with restrictions that lasted half a day and no roads, and with those roads that remained from Mrkonjic's reconstruction campaign and three days before the deadline. Do you agree, Mrs Grubjesic, that everything went downhill after 5 October 2000? Can you react when Mr. Radenkovic says it's them or that you found Mr. Drobnjak? Mr. Drobnjak was last set up as director two years ago. That is what the report on the company's work on "Serbia's Ways" says. Did you find him then or did the government decide, in that government, the DS, to be the director of "The Way of Serbia"? Is there anyone here who can say anything? Sometimes it's funny, sometimes it's not funny, and we're gonna end this at the end of the day. Today we will end up with 11.5m euros in new debt. Mr. Radenkovic of the cultural revolution theory Mao Ce Tunga can conduct on the organs of his party, but then don't let him talk here about how it started in debt when the money disappeared from the Paris Club's write-off. Then he has to answer the question -- how did we get to that 14 billion-euro debt then, and what had to happen in this country to write off that debt?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20921	Thank you. The People's MP, Dejan Mihaylov, has a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20922	Mr. Radenkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20923	Please don't address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20924	No, I'm looking at you. Mr. Radenkovic, it seems to me that in this case you are a double personality. First, you complain about Milosevic's time and you're against October 5th, and then in the second sentence you give up Milosevic's policies and you say you've changed. It's not disputed for me for you to change. As a man and a Christian, I'm looking for something good in everyone, and I'm letting him change and see that he's been wrong before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20925	Mr. Michael, I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to remind you, since you have received the word on the basis of the amendment, that you speak according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20926	You gave it to me based on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20927	As I recall, on the basis of the amendment. I asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20928	You gave it to me based on the replica. We can check the stenogram, we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20929	I didn't hear you correctly, but it's okay, keep up with the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20930	In this way, all you have to do is tell us if you are in favour of returning Serbia back to the time of the Milosevic era and in the time before October 5th, to pay back the debts for the old foreign currency savings that existed, the debts for the pensions that were, the wars and all the consequences that we now suffer for? The extorted moves that this country is making are the consequence of the government and such irresponsible policies. If you are willing to say in one sentence that you are in favour of returning to Milosevic's time, and even more about private property, a little earlier, in times of communism, social bargaining, self-government agreements and collective responsibility, then it is a completely new manner in the way your party works. I thought you decided to go towards European integration, European values, where private property is such, indivisible, where a tutor and owner of each property is known and where individual responsibility is for everything that is done. Just explain to us which direction are you in? (President: Time, Mr. Michael. ) Are you in favour of which state Serbia goes after October 5th, co-operation, or are you in Milosevic's regime?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20931	Thank you, Mr. Michael. Dejan Radenkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20932	I don't think there's any dilemma. It is a clear view of the SPS itself by participating in this government. You wonder why our ratings are growing, why today the parties that make up the government are the ones that, again, have abused by pointing out one candidate who was the only one who was allowed to look into the people's eyes? I feel sorry for that man, because if he knew all this was gonna happen after October 5th, he probably wouldn't have done it. I'm saying that the SPS has that weight and virtue to admit some of its mistakes. What was good was good and it was undeniable. That's what we heard yesterday in the debate, complaining here about the social accounting service, and you destroyed it. If we had destroyed the economy then, then I was young, what did you have to sell if we destroyed everything? What did you have from that sale later on to spend and what did you spend it on? That's what this is about, that's what we're asking, and we're gonna be honest with each other. Don't talk about it anymore. I won't get involved anymore. Thank you for your attention. I will not answer pointless questions and pointless findings. I can only add - how can some get 10,000 tons of wheat from the stock reserves and take credit on the bill? What privilege is that in this society? Where'd you get the money for all that? Don't let us get into all that. I'm telling you, you take every debate very carefully because you can happen to spit on yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20933	Anyone else want a word about the amendment to Article 2? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20934	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, "Serbian Ways" today have no money to patch up the holes. "Serbia's Ways" are inexplicable, an account without innkeepers. Madam Minister, this is a law that actually promotes an account without innkeepers. That's the problem. Whenever a question is asked – how is it possible to make a debt of over a billion dinars, without knowing who made it, how he made it, what he spent it on, and how he spent it, that moment turns away from the topic and there is a replacement of thesis. There is a reasonable doubt that something wants to be hidden, as soon as you don't deliver material that will give clear and concrete answers to what is involved, what is the structure of the debt, which are the specifications relating to these billions and 300 and some million dinars? In the light of the law, you say there will be no new costs for the economy and citizens, and in Article 3 of the law, you say the funds for the reconciliation of the obligations under Article 1 of this law are provided in Serbia's budget. Who is filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia? I guess he's full of Serbian citizens, and they're very interested in whether they're going to patch up, at least patch up the holes on Serbia's roads, and about having these paths reconstructed or to build new roads, I don't think the citizens are even thinking. They simply accepted that it was one lethargy because of an incompetent authority that has been sitting where it is for a year and has not found an adequate answer to any burning question of this economy, this economy of this society. We're just asking and we want to know -- how did this debt of over a billion dinars come about? We really don't want to let the themes change. Once topics were chosen in terms of -- we don't give Kosovo, we lose Kosovo, and then we talk about European integration, and something else is being said today. Today the question arises – were privatisations useful or not? Are they compromised or not? It's a replacement thesis. This is just about one basic question, which is -- why are the citizens of this country in charge without anyone answering for those debts, and they've produced these debts?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20935	MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20936	As long as we have time, we'll ask questions. Again, I ask that we get an answer – how is it possible that the bill found that the Republic of Serbia's budget will provide funds up to 1,346.000,000 dinars, and then a little later, in the same law, you say that individual debts will be determined in a special procedure towards each of the road undertakings? Then how do you know that the total amount is 1,346,000,000 dinars, and then you leave a special procedure, that is, a special deadline for applying for every toll company? I don't see any logic in that solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20937	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20938	The Liberal Democratic Party will certainly not support the law, which makes the country's governments, SNS, the SPS, the URS want 11.5 euros in public debt to turn the Serbian Roads into a public debt. The fact is that Minister Dinkic said in a public debate that December was 5 billion or 45m euros and that it was paid. The fact is that no one, nor you the minister who is here today, nor anyone in this room, nor anyone from the government wants to tell MPs where the new 11.5m euros are from. We had an opportunity just to hear a hint that they were some kind of '90s annexes. Does this mean that the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" does not respect the Public Procurement Act? To do the work past his program, and now what? We should all be responsible for such a failure by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and the haughtiness of Director Zoran Drobnjak, and not only his but also the haughtiness of the Minister in the Government who doesn't even find fit to be here today in parliament and answer some basic questions to the MPs? Isn't haughtiness, Vice President, that the minister who gave us the bill doesn't even have the elemental knowledge of what the roads in this country are called. Is it not a shame to write in the light of the law that the adoption of this law will allow the smooth maintenance of regional and state-of-the-art roads in the Republic of Serbia? That's not what roads have been called for two years. There are no regional and freeway routes, but roads of first and second order. Is it possible that you want to write off 11.5m euros without knowing who the Public Undertaking is in charge of "Serbian Roads", whose debts, when they were created, are who is responsible for annexing the contract under the Public Procurement Act and are still talking about regional magistrateal roads. Apparently, government officials haven't even read these laws that are on the agenda. I can say that because you're in a law that's on the agenda today, where you're taking on the obligations of health care institutions according to the large drug supply and medical supplies. In the impact analysis, you say that no new economic operators are created, but it is possible for existing economic operators to carry out their regular activity. What does that have to do with taking debts for drugs?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20939	Mrs. Gerov, this really isn't on the agenda. We'll discuss this later.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20940	I want to point out that no one in this room from the government's representatives knows the answer to the question – where did 11.5m euros come from? I don't understand how the MPs of the SNS, the SPS and the URS will vote for this bill. I guess it's quite clear that no one should be in this assembly to uphold this law. It's quite clear that Mr. Drobnjak has gone too far backwards for years. He's allowed not to pay VAT. The people who keep the small trades are asked by this country to pay VAT. Why does he have such privileges? Of course, as LDP, we are looking for answers to questions about where these debts came from, when they came and we believe they cannot be transferred to the burden of all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20941	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now he's setting a regular break. We continue work at 16.10 p.m. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment is the logical consequence of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 2 that we have asked, as you know already, for the amendment that has been discussed, Malta, all afternoon, for the component of this law to be also a list of all claims, i.e. creditors with the precise level of demand of each of them, and to know how much the total amount of public debt, i.e. the debt of "The Way of Serbia" that we are turning today into a public debt. Like I said, it's the logical consequence of that amendment. If you had accepted that previous amendment, we would not have had this amendment today, or Article 5 to which the amendment applies would have been deleted. In my opinion, I must repeat again, it is very unserious that the government is referring to the assembly procedure of this bill. It directs it with the precise amount of the JP's "Serb Roads" debt and that in this same bill, Article 5, says the government will subsequently determine, on a proposal from the Ministry of Transport, the total amount of each individual demand for travel companies towards JP "Serbia's Roads". It's very unserious because it makes us doubt that at this point we don't know what this exact and measured amount of debt is that we're turning today into a public debt. We don't understand, we repeat the story again, on the basis of which document, we need to get some information from your side, based on which argument, based on which account you've come to the fact that this debt today amounts to 1,350,000 dinars. We expect, given that we've been discussing this whole afternoon, and now, obviously, we're going to continue that debate this afternoon, to get some answers from you to this question. I wouldn't want to see each other again in a short time, because that would mean that we were right this time. It's not our goal. The goal is to know exactly when debts were made, who made them, how much each demand for a travel company towards JP "Serbian Roads" is to know what we are discussing today. Speaking of how JP "Serbia's Ways" works, I think you owe us a responsible question – how is it possible that the annual billions and billions of dinars are spent on road maintenance, and that the fact that the public is not familiar with any of the only tender that has been held, and in which are road companies that are responsible for the maintenance of roads chosen? Also, I don't get it, that's what I was talking about in the principle debate, and I think that's a very important question that we need to get an answer to. Today, 2013, a contract based on which Serbian Roads are working and on which they conclude contracts dating back to 1992. So the contract dates back to 1992. Several times so far, he's been annexed. It is 2013 and I am curious – is the information we have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20944	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20945	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This Article 5. The bill confirms that we in the DSS were absolutely right when we asked to establish a list of creditors, to determine how much amounts are owed to know how much that debt is moving. In the context of this 1,350,000 dinar, we don't know who gets what, whether they're liquid companies, whether they're companies in a blockade. Here it says well – The government will determine on a proposal from the Ministry of Transport the level of individual demand for each toll and other society. That act has to be passed. The government has to determine that. We don't understand why this isn't pre-prepared, but prepared if the indicative number of 1,350,000 appears in the draft of this law. In an explanation explaining why our amendment is rejected, it clearly states that the debt is known, controversial and uncontested and represents the total debt of the public enterprise. It says you know the total debt owed to travel companies. We don't know the amounts. That is why we have proposed that this article be deleted in accordance with what we have proposed, to Article 2. We have left the government with sufficient time, of course the Ministry, to prepare individual claims and to deliver them to the National Assembly. I think it's perfectly normal for MPs and the public to be familiar with the amount of those amounts, the companies they owe. None of us care if the toll companies stop working and people go to the streets and lose their jobs, but we want to see if the household has the funds. If this were the only problem with the "Road of Serbia" maybe that would solve it. The problem has been going on for the past five years and will likely be resolved in the coming years. We had a situation to discuss the EPS that requested 30 billion guarantees from the National Assembly, and then we found out that the EPS director paid the employees 13 salaries. Fortunately, this did not come on the agenda and the Assembly did not grant approval for a new coverage of EPS debts. We know what the situation is in "Serbiagas" and we're trying to solve it in a serious, systematic way. The government had no hearing when we suggested that we regulate it, and regarding the debts of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, in the same way. You came here to parliament with the same law after six months and there were eight billion dinars lost in those six months that were scheduled at the end of the previous year, and they are not here today. Unfortunately, these funds in the budget are directed at other things, and the money has already been spent, and not all obligations towards health institutions in Serbia have been met. That list was set out in March, if I'm not mistaken, this year. That's three months after the law was passed. Does this mean that at least three months will pass from today that the government doesn't make that list? Or, there's already that list, and you've probably already decided on it. Mrs Grubjesic, I know that it is not easy for you, I think that this member of the law should be deleted in order to solve this issue in a serious, systematic way and never to discuss the debts of public enterprises again, so that they will never be able to allocate funds from the budget to cover some of the losses that eventually arise and to form... If the state is the founder of a company, if it is responsible for its business, let's ask these companies to operate in accordance with the law, responsibly and honestly, so that they can ask Serbian citizens to meet their taxes and all other obligations towards the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20946	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20947	I'll use the MP's time. Mrs Grubjesic, I would ask you, like everyone else in this room, would you behave this way and settle your debts in this way if it were your money? Would you make decisions like this if you had to pay for this out of your pocket? Of course not. You would ask them to bring a list before you to see if your debts were real, justified, whether the job was done, what quality it was, and then you would reach into your pocket and pay for the job done. It's domestic and every host in Serbia would do so. This way, as you came to us today, it's not domestic. We don't see who we're paying here, or why we're paying, or whether it's going to go for employees' profits, whether it's going to go for NIS debts for asphalt, for this, whether it's going to go for other expenses, and how it's going to go for companies. We're talking about a sum of one billion and three hundred and a few million, it's a serious sum for our budget, given how much we owe, and so, if, in an explanation that you reject the DSS amendment, that you're asked that an integral part of this bill be due, you say that the government knows and that the uncontestable debts to these companies and you, in the very explanation of the amendments, say that they are known and uncontestable debts to companies, and then you're not going to reveal to the Assembly what these are known and undeniable debts and what they owe you are, but you come here, when we ask you, you come with empty paper, you just wrote a number. It's like in some, you know what movies just happen to write the number and show. I hope we're not in that movie. I hope we're in a movie where the state works, where procedures work, and where we're going to make payments based on laws, budget systems and other regulations. So I expect that by the end of this debate, if you can let someone from the government make you the decision you had at the government when you sent this bill, where there are known and undeniable claims to travel companies. I don't know what the problem is, is someone hiding the names of these companies, not to see that they might be some companies that are connected to some people that were spoken of in this room today. I don't know what the problem is, because what we're looking for in this law is to see if the money ends up with 10,000 employees in travel companies in 26 companies. That's what's good about what we've been trying to find in this law and what we haven't done, and you haven't given us an answer to that. We will always insist on this information, because we expect you to respect both this home and the citizens you put your hand in your pocket for 1.3 billion. I hope you'll be able to answer us by the end of the debate. The very fact that the government sent you here sent you to communicate with us. We simply expect, not to argue and argue with you, but one exchange of information, because all of us were very well-intentioned only to see who will be paid and why so much is paid and what the quality of the works is. When last was the debate mentioned by Mrs. Radovic, my colleague, on the debt of drug dealers, drug dealers, Mrs. Dejanovic, the health minister was then in the O.R., and she defended the law, although it can be said to be the law of the domain of finance. We don't have anyone from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's office today, and we remember when he comes to debates in this room, he comes with the whole world, from the head of protocol, two assistants and he. Today when this important matter is to be discussed, you sit alone on the government defender. I don't think that's a good way to argue in this assembly, and we expect you to finally, if nothing else, tell us by the end of this debate at least one company that will be paid, for which purposes and for which business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20948	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Excuse me, please, there are rules of procedure. Here you go, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20949	The Honorable Chairman, you, or the President of the National Assembly, have committed a violation of Article 217 and 218, respectively. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 217, sixty-six people's MPs can initiate a request for a shift, i.e. a mistrust with a government or a member of it. The President of the National Assembly, under Article 218, is obliged to place the request on the Assembly's agenda at the first next session. We have now received a call for the first next session Tuesday, where there are no demands from 60 MPs for the shift of Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Science. I ask you to pass it on to the President of the National Assembly, it may have been an accidental mistake, but that the error may be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20950	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I will remind you of the provisions of Article 103(1) that the chairman may only harm the Rules of Procedure at the session of the National Assembly that is under way. The president will certainly understand what you're talking about. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20951	Very briefly, the chairman, I repeat again, today we are talking about a billion and 350 million dinars that are turning into public debt based on debts created by the JP Roads of Serbia. I would like once again to remind you and Serbian citizens that your government, Mrs Grubjesic, has forgiven the debt to this 200m-euro public enterprise. Twenty-five billion dinars on behalf of the payment of VAT that we all pay in this country, as individuals, responsible firms do, the tax administration needs to deal with its business and punish those who don't, and I'm talking about thirty-something billion that this government saved by budget rebalance. You voted, I suppose, and to write off, or forgive the 25 billion-dollar debt. If I'm not mistaken, if I remember correctly, your government, only the previous government, has made it possible for the JP Paths of Serbia in time, when the decision was made in 2008 that they are obliged to pay VAT, to increase toll prices by 18%, the amount of VAT. Serbia's JP Roads also collected that revenue, which additional 18%, to pay out of these funds for its VAT-related commitment and did not pay. That's what the previous government voted for. It repeats itself now and in this government. Fortunately, there will be no increase of 20%, as Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic announced, but it just shows that there is no serious desire, there is no political will to finally resolve this problem and that we have companies owned by the state of Serbia over, still, the board of directors, who also, under the law adopted in this assembly, should not exist. Now we heard, the other day, that the JP Steering Board of Serbia has decided to find some sort of solution. If you are a government, if you are responsible people, then rule, then bring unique rules for all public enterprises, regardless of who is in charge of them, whether it is Serbiagas, whether it is EPS, whether it is the Ways of Serbia, because all Serbian citizens depend directly on these businesses, and they act as monopolies, who even to their own country, their founder and people who run the company do not want to pay VAT, what all Serbian citizens pay. (President: Time, Mr. Petkovic. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20952	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20953	Let's do one more question. So, the bill says there are commitments in nominal terms of one billion 346 million and some dinars on April 1st and that the first war, the first third of this debt, will be paid during July. It's July the month. Is it possible that at this point there is no precise list of companies to which they are owed and how much they are owed? Secondly, I warn of a very dangerous formulation in this article that says - to travel and other societies, which is why we suspect that this will cover some of the debts of Serbia's Roads, which have been created by strange foundations, rather than by the basic activities of the company. That's why I, Mrs Grubjesic, asked on Thursday, I didn't get an answer, I ask you again today – why did the JP Roads of Serbia spend more than 12 million dinars on advertising and propaganda costs in 2012? Why is the monopolies answering? What is the business interest in advertising a monopolies? Is the advertising of monopolies allowed under the Law on Public Enterprises, which you adopted here? Yes, if a special act allows the government to do so. Did the Serbian government allow a special act to advertise Serbia's Public Enterprise? We have determined that "Serbian Roads" were advertised in 2012. Today I ask you – have the "Serbian Ways" also been advertised since 1 January 2013. The final question of this amendment. I see that the directors of some other public enterprises say that part of their obligations will be transferred to public debt. According to information published in the media, the director of the Public Enterprise "Serbian Roads" today seems to me to be worth more than 50m euros. So, can this Assembly expect a new government proposal to allow us to transfer 50m euros and some million euros in debt to public debt under the same methodology and "Srbiagas"?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20954	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20955	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is said to be deleted. The Democratic Party, I repeat, has not submitted amendments because this law is completely contrary to all legal and moral norms, and because it should not have been in the assembly procedure. For the sake of truth, there is something to be said about the responsibility of the person in "The Ways of Serbia". Namely, Zoran Drobnjak was appointed in 2007, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and on a proposal from Velimir Ilic, president of New Serbia. In May 2010, when asked if it would be removed, Drobnjak said that then Minister Mrkonjic was only joking and that none of it had anything to do with it. On a new announcement for his shift, submitted by the official of duty or former assistant minister of traffic Sasa Mirkovic, Drobnjak also sees no guilt. What else is important to say? It is important to say that the company "The Ways of Serbia", in addition to so many losses, has acted as it does not comply with the law. Signalling and road safety are compromised. Several car accidents took place on the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway due to poor signalling. This year, the Ministry of Transport ordered the suspension of works on a tape of highways from Batocina towards Kragujevac, because not all papers existed and there was no construction permit. What else is important to say? In addition to what the DS is against transferring this to a public debt, responsibility is also needed. I hope that the government's announced reconstruction will just take these people from the ministries, directors of public enterprises who are responsible for something like this. There's really no responsibility in the DS here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20956	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20957	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all kinds of laws have been passed through this assembly, but such a law never. So this law is a real picture and an opportunity to which the executive power of the Bahate is, to the extent that it is arrogant, to what extent it is absolutely not interested in how the MPs will react when a draft law reaches parliament. This law is indeterminate and indeterminate. This law is hollow. So, the point is that we need to decide on no amount of money that represents the debt of "The Way of Serbia", which will fall, normally, on the burden of that average citizen of Serbia, without knowing anything about that debt. I understand that they were different party officials who made that debt, and I understand that the parties also have a certain favored relationship with those party officials and members, but I don't understand how the government dares to deliver this bill to parliament for resolution and that it really expects us not to notice this cowardly egg. This is a coward's egg and this is one suspicious document. If the government is handing over to parliament a questionable document, in terms of passing that law, I think that's the end of the government. It is that the government is currently in rotation, it is located in some lingu status, whether or not it will change and which ministers will change, which it will reconstruct, which it will not, but that does not mean that the Government will not come into the position of freefall sooner or later, if it continues to apply to the laws. We would suggest that you make one single record, one centralized record of all the losers of public enterprises, so that we have in one place exact information about how much they owe, who they owe and why they owe. In fact, it is one responsible relationship to public enterprises and in general to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and above all to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20958	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20959	In article 6, you said that the reconciliation of obligations towards travellers and other societies would be carried out by the Ministry of Finance and Business, the Public Debt Administration, in accordance with the government's act under Article 5 of this Act. That's what we were just talking about. So, once again, I ask – where exactly is the budget rebalance for 2013 and in what positions is the money provided for something like this? Will the money be secured from a new borrowing? If it is secured from a new borrowing, then consider that, let's say, Public Debt Administration, when it makes public records emissions from which it provides the budget, there are a lot of problems to realise these emissions, that it is averaged between 25% and 30%, that interest is at this point or yield is about 10%, and then add those amounts to this amount of nominal debt that you've taken over here, because this will be the total amount in real money that we'll eventually pay back. I have another very important question. I think at least on that question, Mrs. Grubeshic, you can make a deal. You say in Article 4, this debt will be paid in three equal tranches, one third in July, September and November. But you say, at the rate of one third of the total amount of obligations set out in Article 2. Article 2 says one billion and 346 million. It does not say in the Law whether you will pay each toll company its obligations to it in three equal wars, or if any other order is possible. Is it possible under this law that some of the travel companies will be paid the entire amount of debt in July, while others have to wait until November? It's not regulated by law. According to the text you wrote, such a situation is possible, among other things, because we don't know what debt is today. If one third is four hundred and a half million, that means you in that first tranche in July, compared to three or four, for example. You can settle the debt. There is a huge difference in the country with this much inflation whether someone will get the full amount in July or have to wait until November.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20960	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20961	Thank you. Article 7 provides for this law to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". Mrs Grubjesic, would it be possible in EU member states that the director of some of their businesses in December does not know what their debts are, that after three months he says he has debts higher by 11.5m euros and that in EU member states no one would be responsible for such a thing? Well, he doesn't keep those invoices and bills in his pocket, so in December he doesn't know he's missing another 11.5 million euros? The fact is that today as MPs, neither today in the debate in particular, nor in the debate in principle, we had the opportunity to find out where this 11.5m-euro debt came from, to which debt was written off at the end of five billion last year, and you expect the ruling majority MPs, SNS, SPS, URS, PUPS, to support such a law. For me, as a MP, it is quite clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia supports JP's "Serb Roads", for the following reasons: firstly - allowing him to joke about debts worth a billion and something else - which did not call a competition for the election of JP "Serb Roads", although she had a deadline, according to the Law on Public Enterprises, by July 1st, third - which still has a board of directors and a fourth - allowing the director and administration of the company to violate the law regarding all accounting and financial reporting regulations. If in such a way Serbia will be and become an EU member, we believe that such a thing is impossible. Obviously, we can't get an answer from you for a single question. We didn't get the answer from you or the other ministers in the government. It is obvious that Minister Milutin Mrkonjic does not have the courage to come here to the Assembly now that he is discussing, among other things, his debts and to tell lawmakers when these debts occurred, whether they were from the time of the election campaign, whether they were from the new year to today, whether they were created for example. By paveding some streets in Zajecar before this election. We think it's a shame the minister isn't here today. It's obvious that you here should be the only one who will in some way be silent to defend this law because I understand that you have nothing to say about this. The wisest thing is that the government of the Republic of Serbia withdraws the law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20962	Thank you. The word is Vice President Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20963	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's Messengers, sometimes it's better to shut up and listen. I want to thank you all for today's debate because I've learned a lot from you today. Why didn't I say anything? Because I don't think I'm an expert in travel and I wouldn't engage in the details that you've been getting into. Some of you understand a lot better than I do in the travel industry and what it used to look like today, how many roads it's built in, how many roads it's paved up in. I'm really grateful for all the information you've given. Not wanting to justify my presence here today and someone's absence, I will only say that today is a joint session of the two governments -- the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Republika Srpska in Banja Luka and that most, if not all, ministers, headed by the prime minister, are in Banja Luka today, and that I remain here today because I would not have the opportunity to discuss the process of European integration bilaterally with anyone there. Speaking of the European integration process, I'm going to say something from the profession, and as far as the matter is concerned today. It is now clear that Serbia will start accession negotiations by the end of January, and in order to be successful in this, I think we will have to overcome many difficulties in, say, three chapters directly related to today's debate, which are: Chapter VIII – Competition, Chapter XIV – Transport Policy and Chapter XVII – Economic and Monetary Policy. We, with laws like this, not with such laws as these today, but with this situation in our public sector and in public enterprises, will not be able to open or close Chapter VIII, which applies to competition, to State aid control policy, or to prevent governments from granting state aid that restricts competition in the internal market. We're aware of you and us, me sitting here with you yesterday, the state of public enterprises, that most of them are losers, that they're monopolous, inefficient, and that public enterprises need restructuring. We've been talking about it not since yesterday, not since the formation of this government, about how much I remember, for the last 10-12 years, but rarely which public enterprise has been completely restructured so far. It is a process that will seem to last, here, perhaps just until this Chapter VIII opens, when some radical measures will have to be taken, even reluctantly, but if Serbia is to become a member of the EU someday, it will have to make its own legislation, and even more practice to adapt to the best standards existing on the EU market, and monopolies and lack of competition are certainly not standards with which Serbia can be and become a member of the EU. I absolutely agree with you, several MPs have mentioned that non-domestic business is being done in public enterprises. That's right. You don't know how many employees are, what's the exact amount of debt, but you can't tell from yesterday. Some companies have been successfully concealing these data for the last 20 years, and so some of the debts of public enterprises have come from the 1990s and are now arriving for payment. As for non-domestic business, yes, we all noticed that very losers are mostly advertised to pay bonuses, to pay 13. salary, all in the country of Serbia, with this number of unemployed, with this number of poor. However, when we finally manage to make such inefficient monopoly public enterprises efficient businesses, I cannot answer that question. We, as politicians and as members of political parties, know very well that party governance in companies has led to this situation where public enterprises today. Well, that's an open statement and a confession to make. There is no one to say - my party has nothing to do with this, my party has no part in this. In particular, when we talk today about "The Ways of Serbia", you heard and you know, the director was appointed as early as 2007, so for six years he is the director of this public enterprise. The resolution minister is a minister, here in another government, so he can't be appalled for what the previous government did, or the leading party in the previous government, but well. Sometimes the easiest thing to do right now is to get sick of political amnesia and move everyone on to someone else. You know, sometimes the transfer ends. Sometimes some things you can't transfer to each other. Sometimes some decisions have to be made, because occasionally the difficult words that are spoken cannot fill the gap that exists, and the void is exactly like this for our public enterprises, whose transformation and restructuring is not seen for now, but the beginning is seen. The beginning is also seen in "The Way of Serbia". The government of the Republic of Serbia launched a competition on June 30th for JP "The Paths of Serbia". On 30 June, according to the Company Act, the company's supervisory board was formed, and VAT collection began as of 1 July. In the principle debate, we talked about the recommendation or obligation of the previous Ministry of Finance in 2008 "The Ways of Serbia" simply ignoring and passing without any sanctions. Now it won't be a case anymore. What is the state of our paths, we all know it well. The moment we go out already in Hungary, an EU member country, we see how the road can be perfect, how it can be cheaper and how it can be done in a short time. Now I've opened too many topics, so we can discuss them today or these days. What is unorthodox and what has to be done is indeed the restructuring and reforming of public enterprises, that they become, as effective as possible, to ensure that they are provided with competition, that the number of employees comes down to that measure that corresponds to a public enterprise, to stop party employment, stop party management and finally professional management starts to make decisions, but also to be responsible for the business of any, including public enterprises in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20964	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, you'd like a replica instead of a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20965	Thank you, Mrs. Grubeshic, for what you said. I'm not going to insist on you moving on in these grades, or on agreeing with what many of us have been saying. People who are looking at this and the public, of course, are fundamentally following politics, very well understood what you've actually said in these few minutes, and it is significant at this point. I don't think we'll be able to complete this process of restructuring public enterprises until the chapter is opened. I think that we will succeed in introducing this, as-so, into decent frameworks, or to be acceptable to the EU on the last day before our formal entry, as some countries before us did. But I'm afraid, while we're doing this job, we're not losing sight of what's actually going on around us, which is not our specificity. So, even if JP "Serbia's Ways" were most efficient at the moment, or some other, but let's take JP "Serbian Roads", it could not carry out its obligations regularly, in time, even in a country like this that does not have many roads. I don't think it'll help us that he's the Commissioner for Competition Mimic who has experience, let's say with a Croatian case, but let's look at that country. She managed to build several highways. It is incomparably better in this respect, and it can no longer serve through public sources, i.e. through public enterprises, through Croatian highways and maintenance of these roads. He wants them to make a huge debt in a long-term concession that is almost sold by highways, which they managed to build before that. That's why I'm not sure that the way to this, or other public enterprises, is that they only choose management differently, or management to do otherwise. We have to have much less public enterprises. Before that, we have to make a political decision, which is what the state must, or can deal with, and then have public enterprises, or public governance, or public investment exclusively in those areas. These other areas we have to let go of the competition market and it's not going to be easy, but it's simply the only way. Serbia's not the only problem, the unfair directors, the problem is that in some segments of the state, it can't deal with it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20966	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20967	Please tell me how many authorised representatives there are and how many MPs there are still times.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20968	The authorised representative has two minutes and 45 seconds, and the parliamentary group has 40 minutes. Excuse me, that's page one. Twenty seven minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20969	The Minister was pleased to have only 40 seconds, but indeed after what the Deputy Prime Minister said, it was too much to send arrows to her account. She said she didn't understand travel too much, and that's clear to us. She came here today to do the job, i.e. to replace someone who should be understood, which is Minister Mrkonjic. As I understood the vice president, you said that today the government, the full composition of the government in Banja Luka, is at a joint session with the government of Republika Srpska. But, of course, it's a very important meeting, but lately, in this assembly hall, we haven't seen almost one SNS minister, the SPS, so neither the Prime Minister nor the first Deputy Prime Minister. We discussed budget rebalancing, the first, most important act this Assembly brings together with the budget. There was neither Prime Minister nor any of the resolute ministers except for Mr Dinkic. We're discussing laws that have nothing to do with your portfolios. There is Minister Kalanovic, there is Vice-President Grubjesic, so is this government really run by the URS? I'm not referring darts to the URS at all, but, apparently, everything that needs to be done unpleasantly is given to you as a task. Mr. Dacic travels to Brussels, Banja Luka, etc. I really don't know his ways, where the Deputy Prime Minister is, too, but we get... (President: Mr. Veselinović, I am really obliged to tell you to return to the topic, and the subject is an amendment to Article 7. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, please. Yes, of course. The topic is the maintenance of roads, taking over the state's commitments to JP "The Ways of Serbia", obligations that citizens will pay in the coming period, obligations that will arise in the coming period, only because the government is not doing its job. This government is not doing its job because it has placed party directors in places in these public enterprises despite the promises they made. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to answer only one question – why, as a party that advocated the departisation of public enterprises, do you agree to continue to run party personnel? Why didn't you call it in, except for two, three public companies? Why are you interpreting the Law on Public Enterprises in a way that corresponds to the division rather than the department? Why didn't you call public calls for the selection of new directors, specifically for JP "Serbian Roads"? - Did you get it? I'm sorry if that's true, so the question is, why didn't you call the competition for the rest of the public enterprises, but leave the directors who were elected as party personnel in those places?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20970	Thank you. The word is Vice President Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20971	That I don't talk to you like this from here in this place, but I said on June 30th, a competition was launched for the election of JP directors "The Way of Serbia" and dozens of competitions were called for the selection of public enterprises directors. Absolutely, the Law on Public Enterprises will be respected as far as this government is concerned. What was not before, and there was no Law on Public Enterprises, there was no call for competitions for directors of public enterprises, unless some competitions that took place on a local level were considered, for example, in some local self-governments. It made a cult that did professionalization and departmental work just here and nowhere else, and that's all that's happened. Unfortunately, it's not. Unfortunately, in Serbia, many local self-governments have just agreed, all parties, not excluding mine, yours, anyone's, agree who will be headed by any municipal public enterprise. If we continue with this practice, you will see how much public utility debt is from local communities and how these debts affect the quality of life of people in local communities. So, on June 30th, the government of the Republic of Serbia launched a competition for JP's "Serb Roads" and a dozen more competitions, not the same day, but before and after the election of directors of other public enterprises. Among other things, there is still a competition in the process to elect the EPS director, for example, and we will see, since it has been a non-party chamber, a professional, whether it will be so in the future. I'm sure he will, that all the criteria given in the competition will be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20972	Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20973	I thank Madam Chairman, I simply cannot accept that certain things are spoken casually, that they are spoken half-true, or false. The presence of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, run by the Serbian Progressive Party, is more than visible in this parliament and in this plenary hall. I would remind the previous speaker, if he hadn't been in the O.R., and it seems to me that he was speaking when he was, let's say, lastly about the national strategy on judicial reform or the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, gives very agile in defending these national strategies, and as a proposer was Mr. Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice, otherwise candidate and when Serbian Progressive Party. I don't know if the whole Serbian public saw it, and only one MP who said he didn't see it, that he wasn't there. I really don't understand it, and I can't accept such things as I can't accept, speaking of this national anti-corruption strategy, it's a question of why the previous government was waiting and it didn't have one document in 2010. Why was the previous document such that it had no monitoring, so it remained a dead letter on paper. After all, if you have any objections, you can say them next week, because we will have a law on violations, Mr Selakovic will be here again, as will the other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that some ministers have really great international activities, and the product of this work to be seen on this accelerated path of Serbia, towards Eurointegration, I don't know if you feel that this is wrong, or if you are not wrong, mostly, because of you, don't speak at all because of Parliament, don't say things and send messages that are not true, from the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20974	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20975	It's just that what Mr. Babic said is untrue. It's half-truth. So, I said when there was a debate on budget rebalancing that no minister from the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Progressive Party was at the session. So there were neither the agriculture minister nor other ministers from the Serbian Progressive Party, who were to defend positions or not defend positions concerning agriculture, the reduction of the agriculture budget, as regards health care from the Socialist Party of Serbia, etc. So, Madam Vice President said that about a dozen competitions were called dozens, at the level of the Republic, and you listed only one competition, so for Serbia's Elektroprivreda, or the other for Serbia's roads. I'll tell you, here in Novi Sad was the day before yesterday the selection of directors by this new principle, which you set up by the Law on Public Enterprises. You know, how many directors were elected, 16, and you know how many directors per party? All former VD directors and all impartial and all just as you promised the citizens of Serbia. So you don't respect that law, not to say, you're making fun of it, and here you're just trying to defend what the defense can't, simply, do one thing, and the other you're doing in the field. So, you said, there was a director, a non-party director of the EPS, hoping to stay. God, at least one director should be a non-partisan person after these elections under the new Law on Public Enterprises, announced as a significant change in Serbia's department, and something else happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20976	The word is Vice President Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20977	I'm sorry I didn't do it last time, to discuss one dilemma, when the budget was being passed, when the rebalancing was being brought, why was the finance minister sitting here. Mr. Veseinovic, I was a folk MP in the last term for four years, whenever the budget was passed, only the finance minister sat here, it was Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, and later Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic and the prime minister and the finance minister, and do not honor this government for why the budget defends only the finance minister. This was a practice before, as the finance minister corresponds on behalf of the government for what it stands before the MPs. It was no exception that Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic was defending both the budget and the rebalancing. That's what I've been looking at here for four years, and you, along with me, as I recall.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20978	Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20979	I would fully support as a man who was a national MP in the previous assembly everything Mrs Grubjesic has now said and here in the same place Mr Cvetkovic sat and looked aside, did not want to look at the opposition when we were giving him criticism about budgets and budget rebalances and you can wave with your head as much as you want, there are videos, there is something that you can't agree with. On the other hand, when did the budget arrive? When did the budgets arrive? One minute to twelve, one minute to December 31st. When was the legal deadline? The legal deadline was November 15th and for the first time this year, for the 2013 budget it was adopted as the Constitution and the law requires it to be, for the first time, how much the budget was in the procedure itself. For the first time, it was possible to submit to the amendment and to be able to get familiar with both the budget and anything to criticise about the budget. On the other hand, I can understand some political options that suggest criticism that this attempt to departify, and that the Law on Public Enterprises may not be good enough, the process has been continued. It's something that can't be over overnight and I can understand these political options that weren't in a position to depart and perform and in front of such criticism I can shut up and say counter-argument that dozens of competitions have been announced. I can't accept that there's some political options in the city of Belgrade that you don't do the department, so to speak, where we own, that's where we do the department, and what do you do there? Who's the director of Belgrade's water and sewerage? Cvijo Babić, vice president of the DS City Committee, and now that he's here where you rule, we close our eyes, we don't care, nobody should mention it, and then, it's terrible, why you didn't do something like that. After all, we announced a reconstruction. She'll be in the next two weeks. If you really care about the state, the goal, to build system institutions, say, these people aren't doing well, these people have embezzled, these people have done something wrong in these systems, help with that, and I'll vote first and I'll say, well, people like that should leave. If your only argument is truffles and roasters, please, sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20980	The word is Zoran Kasalović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20981	It's a replica. I'm an authorised representative. Mr. Veselinovic has repeatedly mentioned the SPS and the prime minister. Mr. Vesenovic, I can only confirm the findings of the distinguished Deputy Prime Minister Grubjesic, and fellow Babic, here while she was the finance minister, Mrs. Dragutinovic, the esteemed prime minister, there was never, not even an associate, on the board, nor when the draft budget was explained. If it were a different practice, you'd have a moral credibility to ask one such question. When that prime minister was present here, it was as if he wasn't present. He hasn't been noticed, he hasn't spoken much, unlike this Prime Minister, who every last Thursday since the beginning of this conference has been on other important issues and topics, and you've even complained that he's saying a lot, that he's taking up time for you to talk. I asked you several times, this prime minister when he showed up here, there are LDP colleagues and Mr Đuric, who personally was a member of the Committee on Finance and initiated the Committee and asked the question of the finance minister and the prime minister what is the status of our country with the IMF. You ask that question a lot. The prime minister explained that these negotiations were not interrupted and that there were certain problems, that economic policy, the finance minister, drove the IMF out of Serbia and then he deceived the Finance Committee and all MPs. Answer me if the prime minister's priorities for accelerated European integration, getting a date from the government and all members of this government are a good result. Is it good that the prime minister is building good relations and the government of the Republic of Serbia with Republika Srpska? Is that good or isn't it? Don't, please, practice, which DS and the finance minister applied, that you honor someone today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20982	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20983	Of course, it's a good thing the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republika Srpska ambush together. However, it is not good that this Assembly reduced the Serbian budget by 10% two or three days ago. The small budget has been reduced by 10% anyway, and that's your attitude towards Serbs in the region. When it comes to the presence of the minister and minister at the session, we can take a look at the footage together and see who's telling the truth. However, what you will certainly admit is that I am right and that you were not telling the truth is the fact that you adopted the budget. It's right on time, for the first time, but you've changed that budget in seven months. So you can see what kind of budget you've brought. It's obvious the ministers didn't read it either, and neither did you. So, you've brought the budget that you're changing after seven months, and it'll be good if you don't change this budget again by New Year's. As far as the IMF is concerned, that is what the IMF said, it is clear that there is no negotiations with this government because this government sets the conditions of the IMF, the IMF wants to talk to a credible partner, not partners who do not know what will be done in the economic sphere. Our Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, whom you and Mr. Kassalovic and you spoke up a little, but he did a lot of work, unlike yours who talks a lot, a lot of talk. That's right. I've warned that a few times, but it doesn't do anything at all. When it comes to the economy, it does nothing. That says 40,000 new unemployed who have been on the list since you've been in power and when it comes to competitions, it's true that you've called the competitions. However, no one will report to these competitions in the next period when they see how you choose the directors. So over 100 people and some people in Novi Sad have come forward, and the next time these people don't hear from you, they won't hear from you when they see how you choose the director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20984	National MP, Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20985	Madam Chairman, I will only warn you that according to the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the conclusions of the RRA, the promotion of psychicism on the over, television with national or regional, any frequency, and especially for the assembly speaker, so that the clairvoyance of the type-ministers has not read the budget or something like that, please sanction the future. As far as the budget's rebalance itself is concerned, a large rich country like Russia, it seems to me to have two budget rebalances, they're fine, and I'd be happy to change that Serbia has those resources that Russia has. On the other hand, this budget rebalance was created, i.e. each created by the imbalances of the income and expenditure side. This was created and adopted because the cost side was controlled, because it was spent on the principles of a good host, controlled, incomes that were smaller, that no one could foresee in this form, but what were the reasons for previous rebalancing? Because the costs of these budgets, because they were both non-purpose and criminogenic and uncontrollable. That's the difference between this government and the previous government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20986	Thank you. The word has Zoran Kasalovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20987	I thank the esteemed Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's true that the previous premiums haven't spoken much, I'm asking if he was actually the Prime Minister? Everyone knows it wasn't. As far as he did, that's what the citizens best ruled and said. For the fourth time, I ask you, did your finance minister and prime minister claim that the IMF agreement was valid, that the problems of issuing guarantees about the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank, or that the prime minister, in charge of the finance, deceived both the IMF and evicted from Serbia, deceived the entire public, and that only last year we learned the true state of our public finances and a plan that did not provide for the payment of salaries, not enough for pensions. How did you read the budget then? We all read it, but it was interpreted by the Minister of Finance at the time. I'm telling you, he was so brave that all the members of the Financial and Public Committee were deceived. I'm telling you, it's true, you say he talked a little bit, I'm telling you why he talked a little bit. Answer my question once more, yes, and this IMF has driven your finance minister's policy away, and did the IMF leave or leave during the term of office of this government, answer that question once more? I'm asking you for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20988	Thank you. We interrupt the line on this subject, since we're away from the topic. We're going back to the amendment. (Janko Veselinović from town: Replica. No, really, since we completely left the topic, it is my duty in line with Article 27 to take care of dignity, I do apologize. The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20989	Thank you. Let me just remind you, we are discussing here today the Law on Taking Obligations of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" by the state, worth a billion and 400 million. In what Ms. Minister said, I would still like to look back on some things, which is that you will all agree here in this room that the biggest indifference generator of the public sector and at all the economy of Serbia, is actually the state itself, because the state does not settle its obligations in a timely manner and has brought all these businesses into one system in which they are presently. The criticism of the public sector or the manager of anyone in the public sector, independent of which he is a political party, I do not, in principle, think that he is not well-intentioned and that anyone who points to this criticism is personalizing responsibility, particularly the Government and this state. If the government brings a memorandum and prescribes prices, since there will be gas or there will be a kilometer of toll or since any service from the public sector will be done, and we know that in the international market some things are bought much more expensive, then it is logical that corporate management will be unsuccessful, but it is not the failure of that management, it is the responsibility of all of us sitting here. So, at some point, we have to look ourselves in the eye and say, "Dear gentlemen, our price of road maintenance under these 1992 contracts, whether the intention of all the political structures involved in the privatisation process was to sell the right to maintain roads and was not intended for us to get effective road maintenance management. If since 1992, since you said, there has been no tender for road maintenance, the question is how do maintenance prices form? What's the cost of paveding? What's the cost of cutting grass, what's the cost of getting rid of impact holes, who's the one who's counting and who's making the technological-economic analysis of the prices, and based on which road maintenance is later planned, if energy goes to the sky. We can call Zoran Drobnjak, director of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" here for a thousand things, but we cannot call him for any price that was brought there, that is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The main generator and the culprit of the indifference in this country is the government of the Republic of Serbia. If the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia settles its obligations, that is to assume that many economic systems in this society will live. I agree with you that we need to make it transparent, to change directors, to get the directors elected in public competitions. Public enterprises are the government of the Republic of Serbia's tools. For all I know, Elektroprivreda, for example, the Czech Republic, which is a highly positioned state-owned company. That's where the state manages, but manages responsibly. These are some things that we need to look somewhere in each other's eyes and say -- responsibility for Serbia's "roads" and for this debt, is not the responsibility of the director of "The Way of Serbia", but is the responsibility of the government that has proposed such a budget that is unfulfilled. Did the government define in that budget priorities, did all the funds go to what the law defined the roads to be maintained by the government? These are issues, Mrs Grubjesic, not about whether we will improve competitiveness because of the EU? We are promoting concreteness because of ourselves, not the EU. Do we introduce these standards through these chapters that we are talking about for the sake of the EU or are we introducing them because of this economy that exists here? These are some things we shouldn't be accusing and transferring that responsibility to something that creates the state. If you bring a heating price regulation and you know that the price of heating in local self-government can move in one range, then how do you expect some energy company, which distributes heat at some local level, to operate positively? How can "Serbigas" be positive if it sells gas cheaper than it gets? How can a toll be cheap and available if the cost of keeping roads is much more expensive than I define our laws? We can't run social policy and discuss how guilty an individual is. It's not an individual's fault, it's a system that doesn't make life decisions that are sustainable. So we're making new legal solutions that we're putting aside the previous legal solutions. You're an experienced politician, you've been in politics for a long time, and you know these things better than I do. I'm sure you're aware of what we're talking about here. You can't say I don't know the way. You don't understand the ways, but you understand and participate as a member of the government and vice-president of the government's budget. You know this is the result of the indifference in this country. The biggest debtor is the state. A few months ago, we passed a law on the reconciliation of obligations. That law was passed here. Does the state respect him? How does the state respect that law here if it turns this into a public debt in three wars to pay for it by the end of the year? What is the deadline within which partners have to respect their payment decisions? So we've passed a law fully aware that the lawmaker will not be able to comply with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20990	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20991	I mean, we're not satisfied, but simply Mrs Grubjesic has given the right to everything we've spoken about these days and confirmed our assessment of the situation in JP "Serbian Ways" and in general in the entire sector, which is abounding in irresponsibility, as Mr Babic would say, some of the criminal things. We believe that one bad thing is that we have been waiting for the EU to be the beating that will bring us into line, that is to bring you into order, the government that needs to fix this situation. We have realized that it is much more important that awareness of the need to reform the sector, that company is something that will prevail with you, but, if nothing else, at least that beating from Brussels that will come and push the sector into order by sector might sometimes bring something good, but not in principle – do not take the donkeys to green grass.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20992	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20993	Thank you for that. We did not get an answer to the question of how a debt of 200m euros will be serviced to VAT. I agree with those who say self-professional management can't be enough. That's why we say we have to have fewer public enterprises. I agree with Mr. Lazic who says he can't sell or operate much more successfully if he buys gas more expensive than the price he sells it at, but you all voted for such an agreement with the Russian Federation, which makes it possible. The united regions of Serbia have rebelled at the last minute, I admit, but it doesn't have to "Serbia" then or have a basketball club like it does. That's right, we called that committee. Mr. Cvetkovic said there was nothing wrong with the IMF, that there was some trouble with the booking, but you from the SPS were shouting the entire campaign "it" to the IMF.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20994	Thank you. We're moving on. National MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20995	So, from the time of the parliamentary group, according to the amendment, but I won't be obliged to respond to colleagues who have spoken some words that simply aren't true. First of all, we did not get an answer from the Deputy Prime Minister, which is why and how this law came into practice and why and how the citizens of Serbia will have to pay for what the director, or the minister who led this portfolio, is guilty. On the other hand, just before Mr. Kasalovic said that Dacic was a lot of talk and that he was prime minister, everyone laughed nicely from the position and from the opposition. We know how much prime minister he is. We all know who runs this government. On the other hand, Russia had two budget rebalances, but because of surpluses, not because of deficits. Russia agrees its budget usually twice a year because their budget, the revenue side, depends on the price of gas. That's the answer to Mr. Babic's words that, well, Russia had a rebalancing. Of course, Madam Chairman, you had to give me your word when I asked for Mr. Babic's words that someone here was dealing with psychicism. It is not necessary to be a great psychic and to see that this government is leading Serbia into bankruptcy, to failure, that citizens are getting poorer every day and that, if there is no new rebalancing, this means that you will probably have a greater deficit than you planned, knowing how much you do not know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20996	Thank you. Mr. Vesenović, I have not given you the right to a replica since you started the discussion, so we have been spinning in replicas for a while, as we have now begun the replicas, so Mr. Babic has the right now to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20997	I didn't want to advertise the Rules of Procedure, but there was only a replica here, there was nothing like the amendment. As for psychicism and all that we've heard, and it all comes down to some vulgar policy and some glass ball, what's the fact that last year in the pre-election campaign we had the worst possible scenario. What they have survived and experienced, thank God, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, Alexander Vukic and SNS is something that no one has ever experienced in the modern history of parliamentaryism. That fear and that hatred that was sown on the media didn't go away. The citizens of Serbia didn't believe you. And there wasn't enough sobering in the May 6th and 20th elections, then you moved on. When this government is formed we have heard everything here -- there will be no bread, there will be no fuel, we will be back in the 1990s, the euro will now be 600, not 300. What are the effects of this government? The fight against crime and corruption that no one can dispute, except those who do not want to see with their own eyes, but some other eyes, from before May 6th. No one can dispute Serbia's accelerated path to European integration. No one can argue that a further borrowing has been stopped, an insidious borrowing without any value, created on the basis of all of it. No, we have to put up with it here and listen to some of the callers from the '90s again, and I don't know what years, when it's just not true. Do you live well in Serbia? Of course you don't live well. Is Serbia a regulated country? Of course it's not a landslide. Is that something that happens overnight? It's not. Did the SNS as the most important and important parliamentary group and the most important party in the government of the Republic of Serbia promise a magic wand and that it will happen overnight? No, they won't, but we'll be able to resuscitate everything you've done with your politics for the past eight to ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20998	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u20999	I really wouldn't have answered the line, since this is what Mr. Babic is saying, but the recitation we hear at every session, if he hadn't mentioned borrowing and deleveraging. It is clear to all, this data shows that the government is in debt for nearly four billion euros in seven months. This law we are discussing today is the new borrowing of the Republic of Serbia in one way or another. Mr. Babico, what kind of crime fight? All the crime rates, those are the words of the people of your government, are on the rise. Violence on the streets, violence at games, robbery, corruption and all other types of crime are on the rise. What crime have you stopped? What judgments do courts make today? I don't want to get into it. The courts are independent. You said yourself, there's bad living in Serbia. Yeah. It's a bad thing to live. It's getting worse and worse. It's true, you run this country in the '90s. This is seen in the media, and in media similar to the media as they were during the minister of one, now a very important member of the SNS, to whom you very often pronounce the name with enthusiasm. Cigarettes are bought, chopped tobacco is cut and cigarettes bought on black. That is what the finance minister said when he explained the weak revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Income, VAT collection none, you cancel, you destroy public service. Yesterday we had a statement from this public service.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21000	Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21001	I didn't even have time to write it down. As much as that stuff was said that had nothing to do with the truth, I couldn't. I'm a little out of bounds. The first disdain over the judgments of the courts, and then someone quickly bites the tongue, because they know that politics must not affect the courts, although according to that reform of the judiciary that they have all condemned, except those who have executed it, of course, none of the judges have lost their jobs and those reformed have not lost their jobs, and now those who have brought such judges to their hands say, "God, what judgments are being passed." On the other hand, the complaint against the media. Is that sorry about the past? When you edit the media, the media is independent. Is the Serbian Progressive Party or an SNS individual the owner of any media? Was the leader of the SNS or the leader of your party the owner of the press? Is SNS or yours owned by a complete marketing space in the Republic of Serbia? What are you talking about? What a return to the '90s. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been given a date for starting negotiations with the EU. Is that going back to the '90s? However, all such facts, all such things as you have brought forth, untrue, your interpretations. It is said in Serbia: what the grandmother pleased her, it came to her. We'd love to, but it's not like that. That's why I don't have to tell you. You were told by the people of Zajčar there with 3%. I suggested well to my colleagues for the new slogan DS – DS sometimes and now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21002	Thank you. Janko Veselinović. Another circle of replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21003	When it comes to the judgments of the courts, I'll be clear to the end. So, what happens to the judgments of the courts? The courts make decisions, or judges, people end up in jail, who are guilty, and this Assembly, or your majority, makes a decision on amnesty of over 4,000 criminals. Another thing, when a man is suspected, corruption charges will be filed, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nikolic, frees the man before a strong verdict. Especially the man, the doctor who took bribes from the disabled. Not to mention all the other amnesties and pardons of this government, not to mention the medals. And in that sense nothing, Mr. Granny, unfortunately from what I've said is incorrect, but everything you've said has come to light. Unfortunately, citizens live worse, worse every day, and the results of the election may be elsewhere. The election will be when they are. That's what we'll talk about. Not to mention the election in your community, the local community where the DS won seven local communities of 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21004	Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21005	I'll start at the end. About these local communities from the municipality where I was born, and who I really love most in the world, it's Vranjska Banja. For the sake of the public, the DS didn't show up at the election. There isn't. They're so ashamed of their name that individuals showed up by name and last name, and then faster, here we are. Who won? Who showed up? So don't give in to other people's feathers, please. You're laughing at the people of Raski County. On the other hand, about amnesty and the Amnesty Act. I can still accept some people who aren't and some political options that didn't take part in any amnesty law, so they say it's not good, or it's good, why it's like that, or it needed a rope, or it shouldn't be any. But I can't accept that one of the first laws of 2001 in February was the month that was passed, which was much more liberal than this Amnesty Act by the Government of the DS. And that was great back then. Now that it's been done for some, and for a very narrow circle of people who are amnesty, it's suddenly terrible. On the other hand, why do you mind the medals shared by the President of the Republic? Do you mind Serbian friends in the world? Do you mind building bridges to the world? Do you mind if those people who wear the Serbian state medal are ambassadors to the Serbian state everywhere in the world? Do you mind if Serbia builds friendships? That's the problem. In a coin that costs as little as it costs, it means a lot. And you're making fun of it. You had your chance. What you didn't do. You've been running politics. You said one thing in Brussels, the other in Washington, the third in Moscow, the fourth in Belgrade, the fifth thought, and the sixth one worked. It's all over your head. This government of the Republic of Serbia is not doing it, and that is why the citizens told you – sit down two.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21006	Thank you. We're continuing on the amendment. National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21007	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to regain concentration and return to the amendment. All these amendments read: delete. So, because the amendment is the way it is, it allows a wide range of discussions. I'll ask myself and you one question. Are we in favour of the debt of the state, or the "Road of Serbia", which they have made on behalf of the state by keeping the roads of first and second order paid or not? Will it become a public debt, what the state will pay to 26 companies, which I know have about 10,000 workers whose business is at stake? Are we gonna pay that debt or not? If anyone thinks you don't have to pay for it, I'll understand. Then we have double behavior. The same ones who resent the state for trying to wave a debt that is suspected to have arisen during the work of the previous government, the same ones who object to it, forget that Vojvodina owes the pathways between one and two billion. There must be a party where I'm in the coalition that's not in power. It is also no secret that the city of Belgrade owes about two billion to travellers for similar reasons, although there is no ruling majority there. Local self-government also owes two billion passengers, although the diverse government last year was in those cities. So I don't amnesty any party's responsibilities. My party is very small and at least responsible for the debts incurred not only in the state, but also in the province, the city and local self-government. I argue that not only should this debt be paid to the roadmen, but also to the passengers who have maintained and built roads to Vojvodina, for the city of Belgrade, for local self-government. I understand the criticism coming from the opposition, forgetting that, let's say, the firm they run in Belgrade, which is called the JKP "Belgrade Road" in the first six months of 2012, because most likely the city owed them, owed one billion and 13 million. That debt wouldn't have arisen if the city hadn't said that they were doing the right work and that's how the debt came to be. So, of course, the city of Belgrade needs the public company to pay for it, and they owe the subcontractors again. It's all clear as day. Are we gonna pay those debts or aren't we gonna pay? Now, the grudges of those who are not in power in the Republic, due to the public debt created and during the former government, there are objections to the work, as I understand it, of the "Serbian" companies since the arrival of the new government and beyond. Those same problems have been before. We haven't finished our infrastructure, despite spending all the funding from donor support. We sold a set of social economy. We're in charge of 18 billion until the new government arrives. With all these resources, we failed to build a baptized infrastructure and pay tolls for the work on the roads of the first, second categories, local roads. We haven't even paid for maintenance. We owe them, they're in a desperate position. Their machines are, as the popular young people say, in need, given in some kind of mortgage. They can't afford those machines. They can't do that kind of work. Foreign companies are in the business of low-building. Our workers don't get paid, and the matter is clear. Are we gonna pay for it or not? Those who say it is not necessary to pay, should clearly say that the Republic will not, the state will not recognise its debts, that it should not be paid, that workers should not get paid, that these 26 road companies cannot come out of various blocks, out of various mortgages and should simply say so. All this, who is psychic, who is not, I do not belong to those who were psychic. However, the party that lost power had the opportunity to prove itself. I believe this government will not leave problems for any future government that the old government has left for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-10-0.u21008	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to a search in details of the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE LAW ON THE PRESIDENCE OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY TO THE PUBLICATION OF THE SERVANTS BY THE PURPOSE OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND THE MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND THE TRANSPORT OF THESE OBLIGATIONS TO THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES AS THE National Assembly has carried out a review of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been tabled under the Law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the voting day, decide only on the draft law in general. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am terminating the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2013 to hold a new session of the National Assembly, which you were also informed of at the meeting of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly in 2013, which was called for Thursday, 11 July 2013, starting at 13.00 hours. According to Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the suspended session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2013 will continue on Thursday, 11 July 2013, starting at 13.30 p.m. Thank you.
