ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28654	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Gordana Comic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance and Dr Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, invited the sittings of Nikola Ćorsovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ljubisa Milosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister for Pension and Disabilities in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, Irina Stevanović Gavrljevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Radmila Jagodić, Assistant Minister of Finance and Nada Mirkovic, Head of the Department of Finance. Before we continue our work, I suggest we wait for the Minister of Finance so we can get on with our work. I have information that he's coming in right now, if you'll excuse me for a moment. We continue the joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28655	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, members of the team of ministers, ladies and gentlemen, and yesterday and today, we are discussing a set of budget laws in light of the major fiscal deficit that has been projected at 7.1% of the huge public debt and insufficient economic activity in our country, the need to increase foreign and domestic direct investment. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will, in this domain, in a realistic way, look at this set of laws, especially tax laws and laws that involve public sector reform. We are also on the Committee on Finance, Budget and Expension of Public Funds and said that we believe that these reform moves have been extorted, that the ministry simply had to adopt such measures, especially in terms of tax policy and that the SDPS considers it possible and that it was possible to do so, propose further measures that would include what is called comprehensive reforms. I'm going to start by increasing the lower tax rate from 8% to 10% and of course the SDPS as a leftist party, a party that implies and defends the interests of employees, workers, unemployed people cannot view it as a popular move. But we believe that at this point, it is an extortionary measure that in 2015 can bring our country to a set of other reform measures to our country as it is said on the green branch. What we're more concerned about in the SDPS is 2015. The interest-based debt will amount to 114 billion dinars and how in 2014 we will do what is called "rollover", whether we will be able to cut that debt by 2015. What we are also concerned about is tax collection, which in 2013 was reduced from 79% to 73% when it comes to VAT and other indirect moves, which you will agree very little and in this way the state cannot guarantee quality functioning. Given that the tax collection is 95% in Macedonia, it is a clear signal to reform the tax administration urgently, complete inspection services, so that this domain of government work, especially tax administrations and tax police, leads to a high-level reform needed to carry out quality fiscal consolidation and to lead to the unfavourable fiscal discipline that is finally needed in this country. What we think is a good move from the ministry is that it has given up an increase in VAT of as much as 150% in the hotel industry. Why do we think that's good? Maybe someone will say, so Social Democrats defend employers' interests, that, as we defend workers' interests, we defend the interests of domestic family companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen. Why is this a good move? Because there are 25,000 people working in the industry, because in this industry, the lowest average of profits in the country is only 23,000 dinars, and very little is needed, when it comes to the burden of the whole industry going to the gray economy, given our country's strategic commitment to economic development of hoteling, to develop tourism. I will remind you that the hotel industry is a serious business multiplier, and besides it, its development develops, building, processing and food industry, traffic, transport. So it has multiple qualitative positive effects on employment and on the development of economy. We believe that in this domain, and there the ministry has shown that it is ready for dialogue and has spoken with competent professional employers' organisations, talked to the trade unions. I think the time has come and we heard yesterday discussions by our colleagues that they called from LDP for social dialogue, called for a consensus, between unions, employers, the most among them, but also the state, where the state is an employer. I think this is the moment we're in, where we need it so we can carry out further qualitative reforms. As for the increase in this tax, of course it is a negative thing that it will slow down productivity, which will not affect competitiveness and employment well. Thus, the SDPS will propose to the ministry not to tax production factors, not only to go on indirect taxes, but to think about taxing what is called state property, to tax renters, to introduce taxes on the occupation of space, not as it is now found, but in Cuba, to renters, to people who have large business premises, large apartments, which have five or six apartments, that they have to pay taxes per employee. We're the only country in Europe in which renters make a lot more money than doctors, lawyers, university professors. Why? Because so far, by our tax policy, we have encouraged renters to "unsatillize" their assets and their money, but to live well on their rent, they do not have to deal with any economic activity, which is bad for the state. Of course, our proposal applies to not taxing what people live in and where people do business, but where they have surpluses, what they rent, and we can't control in one quality way, or pay taxes on such transactions, when it comes to renting, that and how high we can tax. Another thing we're going to propose, and it's in the light of the adoption of laws on planning and construction, labour law, privatisation law and bankruptcy law, to pass a new law on land funds. Why? We're witnessing that we have a whole series of different directorates, which we don't even know what status they're in. We also want our idea is to corporate these directorates, to build land funds. I remind you that clear analyses have found that only in the city of Belgrade 38% is the occupation of city building land. It is 9% in Serbia's territory. The analyses showed that 50 billion euros in property was owned by the state. What's very important is that the big investors we want to attract are not very interested in buying property and land and space, they're interested in renting. These land funds that would be corporateized, which would have been professional management, would have the role of having this land office, fixed and rented at one market price by direct foreign or domestic investors, by system – the key in hand. In this way, the state could incriminate huge funds. We propose a city rent, given the projects that will come on the agenda in the coming period, given that it is talking about Belgrade on the water. Can you imagine how much this state directorate, this state fund that would have high quality and professional management, could incasate money, if it had the opportunity to arrange that land, prepare and create a portfolio and thus offer foreign direct investors. What we see as very important is also the Law on the Budgetary System, and this is the right reform measure, a full rate of employment in the public administration, in the public sector. I would disagree that this would lead to high-quality people not being employed in the same public sector. This is a reform cut. Let's first do a scoreboard, see how many people work, do by sectors what we need, make a clear analysis, make payment classes, do job analysis, design these jobs, see what we need, where we need a surplus, develop parallelly and encourage the private sector, and in this way implement public sector reform. If we allow additional employment, we'll just be hoarding jobs in the state administration, and with existing jobs, we won't be able to carry out a clear reform, we won't be able to fire those people. Of course, the ones that are extra, but we're going to have to make clear programs. The SDPS will therefore support in the day to vote a set of these budget laws with a clear appeal to the Ministry of Finance and the entire government to consider that reforms are more comprehensive and to make directly these cuts, such as cuts when it comes to the Budgetary System Act. I thank you, and I apologize for overstepping my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28656	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28657	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we met at a meeting that you organised with representatives of parliamentary groups and thank you for this good practice six days ago. I think it was last Thursday. When the LDP parliamentary group set out to attend that meeting outside our office, we found a blue trough after the parliament building, or Parliament's corridor, was sneezing that day. I think it's a delicate blue trough actually a paradigm of saving how in Serbia, in Serbian public finances or governance of state and public property is being spared. Because at the time, they're cheating on how we all have to save and how a lot of money is spent on public administration, someone hasn't patched up a hole that probably cost a few hundred euros. In the end, we will have damages of several tens of thousands of euros. I would also describe with that blue cord most of the measures that are proposed here. I don't mean you personally. We talked, and it seems to me that you personally understand what is the only way for this country right now, what is the only time in reforming its public finances, its public sector, its policy, if you will, but you don't have to answer that. I'm sure that your impressions after one day of debate in parliament, the way yesterday's session started, the phrase that you could mostly listen to all day long, that it doesn't encourage you much, that these overtures you so often talk about don't have much chance, Mr. Krstic, to open up a new time, a new era and a new reform wave. I was glad that at that meeting we somehow agreed that this is not the time to talk in parliament at the level of liberals, neoliberals, social Democrats, etc., that simply the country is not in such a situation. Unfortunately, I see that certain political parties in these quasiideological settings want to score at the moment. I find that particularly surprising when it comes to the ruling coalition parties, who insist on this social democratic orientation, and behind them is five, seven or 13 years of active participation in the government that brought us into this situation, so today you have to propose such laws and that, among other things, the social situation in this country is actually worse than ever. Why do I think such bill can't get Serbia on a good path or a healthy branch? The custom was yesterday to praise some moves. I commend you for being open to conversation. I can commend this change that you were talking about yesterday, about shortening the time when those who remain without public office have the right to profit from six to three months. It's definitely something that's good and that we say hello. What's the problem with these other measures? Unlike Mr Marinkovic and some other participants in the debate, I think it is absolutely the wrong way to define a public sector employment ban, practically two years away. It is not true what some representatives of the ruling coalition say, that it takes us two years to scan the existing situation, run sectoral analyses, and then decide where new people should be hired, and where they should not. First of all, you've spent years, you've had time to do it. Several thousand young people will finish some colleges in this, next and 2015. Their ambition may have been to engage in the public sector. Maybe some of them had this amazing ideal, which policy in the meantime completely destroyed here, that they wanted, especially in those years when they were young, to do something for their country, maybe help their country. You say today – for two years no one can get a job in those places that remain vacant, e.g. Retired by those who worked in those places. I can't let people, Mr. Krstic, who, for example, have studied for four years that at the very end of these studies, you bring them this law and you say two years you can't even dream of getting a job. You know, there are professions in this country where people can't be so easily reorientated, they can't do anything else, that I'm not talking about the private sector being exhaled here, and there's no employment options here either. What will it look like in early 2016, Mr. Krstic, our health care, our education, our police, all those public services nobody thinks about when it comes to how big is the public administration? It's always thought of us politicians, rightly, and people who work in the state administration, in a narrow sense, but it's not the only public sector. So, you're going to keep this bill to the current system of protection of those who, as Mr Dinkic said correctly yesterday, were able to manage, or, as they would say younger, finished some combination, entered the public sector, in public enterprises, in public services, in these numerous state offices, and they will be fully protected, no one will touch them, no one will fire them. Some of them, the more paid, will have a reduction in wages just as they will have someone who is good, quality, who works hard, who comes to work, tries to do something, and those young people who would like to come to those services, you leave out of it for two years at this moment. I would just remind you, Mr. Krstic, that in some sectors the same or very similar ban has been worth a few years, for example in the education sector. This is why the education sector today mostly looks like a parody from the home film "Masters, Masters". These are major debates on excursion logs, general technical education and human relations. Hundreds of thousands of young teachers and teachers don't get a chance because they can't get into that system of closed collectives, and today you formally forbid them. I understand your ambition to say – we will create a system where the best one day will become school directors. That's great, Mr. Krstic, but it won't happen under these circumstances, with school boards divided by party quotas. How are you going to change that? The fact that you in law leave the possibility of getting employment done with the government's permission somewhere, that's not going to solve any systemic problems, you're absolutely not going to solve it. The second problem, we have submitted an amendment in this sense, in this same law, where you prohibit thousands of potential quality people who would engage in public administration, where you forbid them to apply for that kind of work for two years, you allow exceptions. This government is so boastful that, as an exception, it puts it into law that the provision prohibiting employment, i.e. banning the conclusion of new labour contracts, since it is employment, does not apply to directors of public enterprises. So, first you passed the law, accepted the LDP amendment and said you would call the competition by 1 July 2013, and then you did not usually call those competitions. Five months after July 2013, you didn't even choose the directors of public enterprises. This is no offense to you personally. I know you're appalled when you see who some executives are and where all the competitions aren't called, but then put in law that you'll have six months, a year, a year and a half to freely choose the directors of public enterprises, mostly by party criteria, and that you can conclude labor contracts with them. Does that seem fair to you in these circumstances, Mr. Baptizer? To me, absolutely, no, I have to tell you. The second question, of course, is related to the subject of the budget that we are going to discuss next apparently next week. There is no doubt, Mr. Krstic, that without a specific analysis we can locate several segments of public administration, especially when you understand it this wide, how you, I agree, have decided quite well to do in this law, where it is clear how many extra employees are, where it is clear how pointless some places are, where it is clear how much money is being poured out through it. I'll give you a few examples. There is no doubt, Mr. Krstic, that 18,500 workers in these Serbian railways are too many, plus several thousand other workers in those companies that have formally separated, which are actually still part of the railway system. That's one example for you. In that company you have 18,500 employees and you have an incredibly competent person who is in the position of director. There's no competition scheduled for that place, Mr. Krstic. Is it fair for Mr Simonovic to be protected in that place, that he has no competition, that the party has set him up and that he protects him and that the only sanction he will suffer is this reduction of wages that you bring under this second law on net earnings reduction in the public sector? It's not a shame his salary of 200,000 dinars, and it won't be much use if his salary is ultimately 180,000 dinars. The problem is that there's even one in that place, which is parasitic in that place, which has no idea how this system is going to change. One company, it chooses political parties, not to have someone stand out in particular, and one doesn't. I agree with some of the other companies you like to say, where your party has taken responsibility is a slightly better situation. I told you yesterday, you're talking about how you're going to introduce a new system, there's no party directors. Yesterday you wouldn't have adopted the agenda if it wasn't for 126 votes. It was Milan Krkobiæ. I don't know if he was the second director in the O.R. – Dusan Bajatovic? These are the biggest losers under these laws, and you say, okay, let them all stay in their seats, keep the system intact, but don't accidentally hire any new teacher or young doctor, because he'll crush the state. That's not responsible, Mr. Cross. Those mistakes that have been made in the political sphere, which have been made here, at least for the last 10 years, with shorter interruptions, I'd say, for decades, because these are the decades of our society's problems, they can't be eradicated and I can't solve what you're trying to do by force. This tobacco law, which is proposed, I understand what ambition is, must come into the budget almost 100 billion of it, but it is not a solution to introduce a practical system in which tobacco seems to be some heavy drug, so this kind of restriction and ban is introduced. The problem with tobacco smuggling was the moment your predecessors started raising excise duties, believing it would patch up the budget hole. Since it is not possible to do so, it is not possible to do so in the environment of such borders as our country has, it is not possible to do so in Britain which is an island and has problems, let alone in Serbia with such ugly borders. Of course there's been an explosion, Mr. Baptizer, and of course you're such a big hole, and you won't be able to solve such a big problem. Finally, I'd like to open one question at the very end. I understand the ambition you had when you defined what the public sector is, why it is so broadly defined, and when you talk about reducing the net income of a public sector person. But here, let us open a practical question – is this law on net profit reduction in the public sector applied, or will it apply to employees in "ER Serbia"? Judging by how I read the law, they will, as it is the legal persons in which the Republic of Serbia has control, or more than 50% of the capital or most of the governance bodies. It is "ER Serbia". Is it true? How do you think you're building a commercial and competitive airline, which you started and in three months you come and you tell people – now we're going to cut your wages? To whom will the salary be reduced, whether only to domestic citizens or also to non-domestic citizens? So, the ER Serbia that's supposed to fight on the scary airline market, you're cutting their salary. For Jugorosgas, for the South Stream of Serbia, some other catastrophic businesses will not be subject to the law. Isn't that right, Mr. Cross, because we don't have more than 50% of our participation there? How unfair it is to be successful and valuable, say, managers or pilots, whatever you want, in "ER Serbia" get a reduction in salary to pay old JAT debts, which he has not made, has nothing to do with them or to finance the losses of "Serbiagas" to pay the abnormal tax paid to "Yugorosgas" to finance the failures in some other parts of the real public sector. That way you'll drive people away, no one will want to work anymore, Mr. Baptizer. These young teachers don't have much of a choice where they're going to work, but these people who work in airline, believe me, they have choices. There are dozens of cases like that. Finally, for the very end, the way you made the law on net profit control, so you need a tax administration of 400,000 people to control it. (President: Time. You say here - they'll control everyone. It's potentially 700 thousand people. What's it gonna look like every month? You know, or I hope, Mr. Dinkic reminded you yesterday of some notorious sayings in our language, you didn't leave this country so long ago, remember. That miracle that has been tricking the state at every turn for decades, and apparently works for it, will also find a way to fool you here, and those who don't need to get hurt will suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28658	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28659	Thank you. I'll answer a few things I've experienced as questions, suggestions, or criticism. As far as the blue crust is concerned, this is the first step. We had to control the employment. The intention is not to mutilate the system again and completely suspend employment where justified, but one control system must be created. We will do so, as stated in the bill, that the government body will define, in co-operation with the ministries, which are the real needs for employment in certain institutions, any bodies, in order to have control over what is happening. Of course, we wouldn't need to do this if only young and high-quality people had just graduated from college, but because we didn't have a system of control and because it seems that people were employed in a rather uncontrollable way, which is also the fact that we didn't even know until a few months ago how many people were employed. As far as the exceptions set out in the law are concerned, they are simply practical and are exactly in line with what you say, which I agree with, which is that the directors of public enterprises should be appointed and not put on the political line. If a director were to resign or be fired, if this exception were not there, you wouldn't be able to appoint a director. I don't think that's what you're up for, so that's the only reason why the directors and these other categories, such as people's MPs, such as ministers, who are appointed or elected, are exempt so you can have a system that works, but that's by definition a replacement, not some essential exception. As for the control you mentioned, about the tax administration, about the net earnings, we've been thinking a lot about how to introduce it. I'm glad to say that this combined tax charge per deduction, which is being introduced and started working from January 1st, will allow us to actually follow in an efficient way through JMBG where all of the places he receives taxes, i.e. pay taxes, and we will be able to compare in an efficient way, without spending huge human resources in the tax administration. It's part of the tax administration reform we've been talking about. After all, there are companies, and we are looking at some amendments, which are state-owned enterprises, when we talk about companies competing in competitive conditions, which if they work properly, I agree that this measure is not the measure of reducing profits over 60 grand, because it reduces their competitiveness on the market. I believe we're going to talk about one of those amendments and I'm going to answer that as defined, that includes everything, just because it's one solid move and it includes both domestic and foreign citizens who make over 60 grand. I think it fits most of the topics you've started.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28660	The word is Mr. Colakovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28661	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I advertise the article. 104, 106 and 107. The previous debater, Mr Đuric, spoke about the MPs and addressed him directly, unfortunately, even more is the violation of the Rules of Procedure because these MPs are not present here. Secondly, I think he made one slip and a mistake when he said that "Srbiagas" and "Post" were losers and that these directors needed to respond. That doesn't stand. PTT Serbia is one of the most successful companies, state-owned enterprises in Serbia. In that context, I think he made a mistake and it doesn't stand for that fact. That's why you should have warned him. In the end, I'm not asking you to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28662	Thank you. I really didn't realize how you understood it. I apologize if I was wrong. I'll take care of it in the future. National MP Bojan Djuric, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28663	First, I didn't understand this remark. I think it's logically impossible to address someone who isn't present. That's what Mr. Colakovic claims, but well, let's not get too into it right now. Mr. Krstic, when they get fired, as you said, these directors, let's say, which I was talking about, I will publicly apologize to you for the objections I've had. I think we're all gonna have a reason to celebrate, and then I'll be ready to maybe turn a blind eye to some of the problems of this law. I really don't understand what logic is. How is it necessary when the Director is removed, or in any other way, that his mandate ceases, how is it necessary for the functioning of the system to conclude a new contract, as I agree? That doesn't apply either to a surgeon or to a geography teacher. So, I don't understand that logic. Secondly, when you talk about taking some time, here, I agree. We have submitted an amendment that the employment ban is valid for 2014. I think a year is enough for such analyses to be done because before you create a task force, as you say now, and it is some government inter-resor body, I suppose, you will get requirements from those resolutions that will, more or less, be a finding of the existing state. So, it is not a problem of the pre-named public sector in Serbia, but rather of the state, and actually we politicians, we have to try to sit down and discuss what the state should do, and what it should not do, in which sectors it should be active in which it is not and then you will get an answer to the question of where public administration is needed and where it is not needed. If you keep the current volume of state affairs, you won't be able to make any serious cuts. You'll have a proportional, probably, reduction in all sectors, but that doesn't solve the problem. There are great people in the Serbian public administration and there are absolutely incompetent people. When you build a system like this, they come to work this morning, they take their quarter of a barrel, and they take that carton of yogurt that they rip off, put it in the window, and they enjoy it. It's the atmosphere of "Better Life" and it's not going to change this way. I'm thinking of the "Better Life" show, not the one that makes a better life.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28664	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28665	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, I would like to begin my presentation first of all with a single assessment and a finding that the space for avoiding the crisis is almost gone or completely constrained. This is the evaluation and finding of the Fiscal Council and I would totally agree with it. When we talk about the proposed measures that are set out in the amendments to the laws that are under discussion today, I think, above all, that it is necessary to look at the environment in which these laws are proposed and these measures are adopted and, hopefully, they are adopted. The serious danger over us, over our country over our society, is floating, and this is a public debt crisis due to an exponential growth from 2008 to about 29% by 2012, which is at the end of over 60%, and it will probably continue this trend next year, and the target or some target level or target level was 45% when we adopted the fiscal rules of the projected Budgetary System Act, and then we knew that by adopting the fiscal rules proposal, it would not be enough for our public finances to move in those frameworks, but here it turns out that they could be some anchor that is unfortunately floating now, but, by the way, they anticipated the appropriate measures that the government is obliged to take in case these levels of fiscal rules break through. I think that was good. And what does the public debt crisis mean, what we face seriously? This means that at the moment the state must almost use all its money to repay credit and interest, that there is therefore no means for the military, for the police, for education, for social protection, for all those functions that the state needs to perform. It's the worst possible scenario and it's a scenario that would expect us in case of an uncontrollable situation. On the other hand, it should be correct to say that with us, such a situation is that we have a structural fiscal deficit which, in some ways, implies that even in the case of GDP growth, the basis on which we count on the relative participation of public debt and when we increase our fiscal deficit continues to grow. It's a scenario in the conditions in which we discuss the necessary measures to warn this kind of possibility in front of our country and our society. This scenario certainly calls for a clear and necessary seriousness of access to public finances in order to make them sustainable. Consensus and unity in the functioning of the Government are needed. 'I want all of us fellow MPs to talk about public finances as our own. They are all of us and we need to realize that public finances today are one of the most serious state issues at the level and other issues such as EU integration and some of the other difficult decisions the government has made. Of course, in this whole context, the SPS MPs, and as our authorised representative, Radenkovic, said, we will advocate and strive to make this economic policy, now and in the future, socially sustainable, on the basis of one consensus of all partners, because it is important to understand that an economic policy that is not socially sustainable, is primarily not enforceable and is one theoretical economic policy. Of course, if this is the context in which we are talking, a major fiscal adjustment plan is needed and it should be said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is coming out with such a plan. I want to express my satisfaction, because I recognise the government's determination, as well as in some other segments, when it comes to fighting corruption and crime, European integration, difficult solutions, but responsible for Kosovo and Metohija. I said, this is one question that really deserves that kind of approach. The brave and clear message to the citizens is that it really won't be easy next year. No one here seems to have sent me such a message, and I would agree that the full seriousness in proposing these measures shows the government's decision to give up, for example, a good and pedantic analysis, from the announced increase in taxes on hotel services, to remain at this lower rate, which shows that there is really no improvisation and to be seriously accessed by any proposal for a solution. Good goals are set. I want to lean here and on the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, which is that the high fiscal deficit, which is one of the basic public debt generators in the next two years, is reduced by 4%, so from a consolidated level of 7.1% of GDP in 2014 and that is a good decision, because one basic generator is being put under control in terms of preventing public debt growth. What I would suggest to you, Mr. Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the SPS MPs are consistent in this, I think we should make some kind of monthly or possibly quarterly goals in terms of implementing these measures and policies in the next period, which, as far as possible, could be available, but would be a way to monitor the fact of the measures we hope to adopt and which are proposed here. In the event that these objectives are breached or not achieved with a dynamic plot, it may be timely to act in terms of amendments to some proposals or any contribution to return to the targeted frameworks. As I said, the government's determination and a particularly strong message when it comes to the creation of these measures is viewed primarily in the proposal, and I want to say also the Resorient Ministry of Finance, of course Prime Minister Dacic and coalition partners, that in the proposal of these savings, first of all, it starts from the public sector, and here almost two-thirds is envisaged primarily through profit control, and then to refinance one-third of the financing of expensive loans. I really think it is difficult to find examples like this in the history of the financing of the Republic of Serbia when decisions are made this difficult and responsible, to start from the position of the public sector and public spending. With that in mind, I think the government should be worthy of general support in this regard, especially when it comes to solid tax, when it comes to the ban on public sector employment. We need to be extremely honest here and once cut the party's unprofessional public sector employment and try to reach some optimal level of public sector employment. Of course, this is an extortionary measure not natural, but we have come to this limit that such a situation requires and such solutions. There's also a proposal to cut the pay-out rate for function-free officials, so from six months to three months, and I think these measures deserve support. First of all, one message from the government of seriousness and determination to solve these issues and these problems. In this context, the situation in which no one is located and the measures that we bring here, and above all, I personally, but the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs cannot express satisfaction when there is an increase in tax rates. I don't think anyone can agree and be thrilled, I personally don't. It is impossible to support in this sense and to say – that is good, to fully justify increasing tax rates, but in the context of this story that I was talking about in the situation we are in, it is a necessary measure in order to achieve a realistic income and expenditure plan. The conclusion and evaluation of the Fiscal Council is that this time we have realistic incomes and expenses. Of course, these conditionally unpopular measures have also contributed to this in a narrow space to prevent the crisis. That's how I want to support this measure proposal. First of all, from this place, I would like to apostrophe another evaluation of the Fiscal Council and something that I am as a member of the SPS on several occasions, it seems to me that you are the fourth minister I have tried to address and talk to, and the Fiscal Council has also warned of the possibility of tax collection and increased tax indiscipline and the possibility of achieving 0.4% of GDP on this basis next year, or 16 billion dinars. I think it's a very realistic assessment, and in that sense I support it, but not to accept it as a done fact, and I don't think it's going to happen, but it's precisely from being animated again and trying with certain suggestions to get into a situation where this plan, or tax non-discipline in the coming year, is being reduced. There's space, we've heard here and from colleagues that certain indicators show that VAT collection is constantly back three, four years with about 80% decline and is at about 70%. With a grey economy, we face about 30% of GDP, and that is one of the biggest challenges of this country. The tax administration is always mentioned in this regard. I would also like to suggest to you that this time, seriously and in detail, access to the work of the tax administration, comply with the standard of people who work there, the training of people, the needs set before them in terms of controlling all of that and fighting against this kind of gray economy. First of all, it should be said that the causes of the grey economy are one economic crisis in which, unfortunately, business operators see their profitable business only in the situation of movement in the gray zone. On the other hand, we still have big cash transactions and some donations that are out of control of the system, which is all kind of a cause of the gray economy. I think there's an unsustainable situation for the IRS to have only 600 to 800 inspectors on the ground. There is also a need to take care of material compensation and stimulation in these people. There is no good fight against the gray economy and tax indiscipline unless we have co-operation with more authorities, primarily the tax administration, customs, the MUP, market and sanitary inspections. Is it possible in this circle to create one base, one platform and a way to fight the gray economy? I think it is, and I think there's plenty of room there to upgrade better quality work and tax administration. Mr. Minister, you need to keep an eye on the tax administration for a year now, there's been an open competition, about 170, which is the director, which is a branch or branch office, an organisational unit, of which around 50 has been annulled. There are large tax administrations, Subotica, Novi Sad One, Belgrade One, Zemun, Stardust. These are really significant organisational units that staff solutions can, in some kind of uncertainty, lead to the tax administration not fulfilling its tasks in full capacity. I hope you agree with me in that sense. It seems to me that, in some ways, there's room for the next year's work to be done seriously. I'll say a few things in which I see our consistency, and my colleague, Milisav Petronijevic, has spoken of it many times. We also have a high degree of tolerance for the gray economy and when it comes to citizens, but also when it comes to saying, here's this approach to control. We need to bring a situation where anyone who thinks about going into the gray zone, counting on it to earn, and having a very minimal chance of being discovered, it encourages everyone to go into the gray zone, and if he has a clear message that the high degree of opportunity to be discovered and that a consistent application of criminal policy will certainly give up a large number of people will go into the gray zone. On the other hand, we need to develop that pay cult. For a time, it was popular not to pay taxes. We think that the means of information, including the educational system, can contribute to developing this cult of patriotism, as well as in other countries, is pride when you pay a great tax to your country, because it is a contribution to all the functions that the state needs to perform, which will return to you through these activities personally to you. It seems to me that a few suggestions can really help us to fight the grey economy more successfully. I want to express my support, because I also followed my colleague, Petronijevic, when we talked about paying classes in the public sector. You announced it, and we want to support you, when we've waited so long, to do it in the best possible way and to really in the public sector for the same job, for the same size of work, anywhere to work, to get the same salary. It seems to me that even in this amount of money envisaged for payment, there can be some more realistic, better way to pay off profits and that public sector employees are even more motivated and that they are doing their job in a better way. I would like to say that what will certainly raise the business environment in the Republic of Serbia with all this, and what can have a development component and something that will call on investors in the Republic of Serbia, is your announcement about amending the law in budgetary terms, in terms of programming. It's the only way that we, with one budget, come up with a situation to know how much is spent, for which purposes is spent, or for which projects, and to finally know what is the result of these spent funds and the realization of these projects. We think that this will raise our public finances and the budget of the Republic of Serbia to one higher level and be a good message to everyone around us that Serbia finally has credible public finances. Of course, the topic will be on Friday – the Law on the financing of AP Vojvodina, the topic to close. Take it and take it seriously that it is necessary to pass this law in order to finally conclude any kind of improvisation in this regard. In the end, I would like to say that we have not submitted an amendment to the amendment to the amendment of the Law on the return of seized property and compensation, but I would like to say that we need to seriously consider and try to possibly be an amendment to the Committee's resolution. It seems to me that this deadline on January 1st 2015 is not an objectively realistic deadline, in terms of the possibility of reaching certain parameters by that date, respecting all of that - until applications are made, a deadline within which coefficients should be established, and also respecting the financial needs to implement this law. We think that, by respecting this first part of the compensation provision, it is acceptable to determine the amount of compensation, but that this date should be excluded from this proposal and respect the reality, because it is a danger that such a provision and such a law should be enforceable at all. With that in the end, I really want to say that these extorted and necessary measures the SPS will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28666	Mrs. Lucic, I have your application and you're not up yet. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28667	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I will begin my presentation with a quote and, believe it or not, I will quote a part of your law that we are discussing here. Listen carefully: "The reduced net income of the public sector employee represents a net income multiplied by the reduction coefficient as follows. A net income of not more than 60,000 dinars per month is multiplied by a coefficient of one. The net income of more than 60,000 dinars per month, which is not more than 100,000 dinars per month, is multiplied by a coefficient of one, which is applied to an amount not exceeding 60,000 dinars per month and a coefficient of 0.8, which is applied to the amount of net income that is greater than 60,000 dinars of not more than 100,000 dinars per month. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Do you understand? Continuing: “The net income of more than 100,000 dinars per month is multiplied by a coefficient of one, to an amount of not more than 60,000 dinars per month, by a coefficient of 0.8, which is applied to a net income of more than 60,000 dinars to a net income of not more than 100,000 dinars per month, and by a coefficient of 0.75 applied to the amount of net income over 100,000 dinars per month. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” And if I had read it in Japanese, it probably would have been the same thing. The laws we make in this House apply to all citizens. Basic principles rightly say that legal standards must be clear and understandable to all citizens. This norm I read refers to part of Serbia's citizens and will cost us about 15 billion dinars. Minister, you are a young man and you enjoy the absolute sympathy of all the MPs and my personal and citizens of Serbia. You try, you're extremely valuable, I've heard about you all the best, and you've shown here and your approach to deserve support. This is your first budget and I really congratulate you on it. It's not easy to catch this job and you're aware of it, and you're going to let me, as someone who's older than you are, have a daughter of your age, I'm telling you, given that you haven't been in Serbia in a few years, it's a significant time, there's a lot of things happening in Serbia, you're in a country that's not ready to change, or she hasn't learned to change. In institutional terms, Serbia has not yet walked. She crawls, like she crawls babies back and forth. We have a mental problem. No serious social problem has been solved here. We haven't reformed the judiciary. We haven't reformed the state administration. We haven't reformed education, health care, not to mention science, culture and anything else. All of us sitting here are responsible for it, all the political parties you see here have been in power, and the only thing we do is accuse each other of who's less and who has contributed more to that situation. We just need your perspective on the future, not the question of who's guilty and looking for the guilty, we need solutions. So we need to look for solutions. A few more things you need to know. Unfortunately, here to grow up, to climb, you have to bring someone down. We are inclined to raise people into the sky, and throw them into the mud ruthlessly. Keep that in mind, I speak very well, because you have a really great opportunity to help all of us. Now I'm going back on the subject, to the laws. A set of tax laws actually resembles building a skeleton to paint the facade of our budget, our public finances. That's not controversial. The dispute is that after a few months, perhaps already in January, February or March, the stains on that facade will start to pop out, the facade will become dark, there will be no light and pink as it was. What do I want to tell you? Learn from our mistakes. Yesterday you had a chance to hear Mladjan Dinkic, and his colleague Đuric mentioned it, not to be so – you were painting for nothing, to try to preserve that facade, but in a way that will strengthen the foundations of our public finances. What's the matter? Your intentions are in place, your goals are good, it's a controversial way, it's a controversial economic policy. The doctrine of cost cuts, the pay cuts drag us down with a negative spiral. No growth, the citizens will be sacrificed, and we won't achieve the goals, you're even saying it yourself. So we're going to have a record high deficit of 7.1%. We will not have economic growth, i.e. the growth of social gross products, the country's debt will increase and the standard of citizens will fall. The victim would only make sense if we had growth, we'd reduce our duty and the citizens would be aware they'd be better off in a few years. These laws tell them that there is no salary growth neither next year nor 2015 nor 2016. Realistically, they're going to be less than 12% to 15%. Is this sacrifice worth it without achieving key goals? It's not. Let's change the doctrine. I'm telling you again, you're learning from our mistakes. We can't cut profits, because that leads to this negative spiral. We narrow the market, reduce consumption, you'll have less revenue in the budget, and that sacrifice will become pointless. What needs to be done is an aggressive reduction in public debt. The interest is 115 billion. A billion euros is such a burden that no victim will be able to reduce those effects. That 115 billion is more than three times the agrarian budget, larger than all the social contributions in the country, three times since the transfer of local self-government and not counting any further. So it's such a burden that it practically devises all these efforts to save itself. So, change in economic policy, aggressive deleveraging, of course, by replacing bad loans with loans under more favourable conditions. I don't dispute it, the debt is inevitable, and we have to give up part of the state property to consolidate public finances because it's a cancer wound. And now specifically about the laws that are on the agenda. Each of these laws gives you a message. Here's the Budget System Act, I've already mentioned it. It says – there is no increase in wages either in 2014, 2015, 2016, and all at 1% in 2015 and 2016. So fiscal rules will not be respected. There's no employment in the public sector. So, that's a message, that's a lot of words, but you immediately broke the law because you predicted that the famous body, on a proposal from the minister, or vice versa, could. I don't know if anyone here suspects it's going to be selected party personnel, as it was in the previous period. I mentioned my daughter your age, she's a professor of literature. She graduated without a job, got married last month, and so I'm supposed to vote that she can't be a literature teacher, because she won't be able to get a job in schools. The United Receipt Programme will only take place since 2015. I don't know why you're waiting with that. I think it's actually possible at the beginning of the year. Messages of the Law amending the VAT Act. So the increase is not going to work from 8% to 10% as you predicted. What's gonna happen? We'll have food and medicine back on the fleas, one part go into the gray zone. You know perfectly well that I'm not burdening the Assembly, what are the effects of substituting, what is Lefer's fault, who pays taxes in the event of his increase. In the event of an increase in tax on non-elastic products, i.e. life supplies, all tax burdens are passed on to consumers, i.e. Serbian citizens. You know this well, and I think that this measure is something that will lead to a new reduction in trade traffic and a fall in income because these products will be resuscitated, i.e. some products of general consumption at a higher rate will be spent less on the account of these essential products. One also bad signal, corporate tax. You told these laws to small and medium-sized enterprises that you would not encourage investment in the sector. I ask you to withdraw this law or to respect the amendments that we are going to make, because after the Minister's message, the economy is that foreign investment is a capital nonsense and that subsidies are lifted for bringing foreign investors and opening some jobs, you are now also telling domestic investors that there is nothing from the stimulants for their investments. The tobacco law, I think it's just an additional administration, that we still have to measure the burdens with the environment, and it's going to give a lot more effect than this one administrative measure. In the end, I think that if I don't owe them any more, this proposal for a law on reducing net income with which I started to expose and quote, I think that we've led people to reduce profits, they're going to have to pay loans for the apartments they took, municipal services, electricity and everything else with such reduced incomes, we're putting all these infrastructure systems at risk again, and we're actually spinning in a vicious circle. So I ask you once again to consider the concept, so your intentions are good, but the concept of economic policy needs to be drastically and once again to reduce external responsibility so that we can develop without it, you see that we will miss almost all goals. And in the end, no quotes, I really wish you good luck, and I want you to realize your ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28668	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28669	Thank you and thank you for your good wishes. I just wanted to, I won't owe you too much to answer these few suggestions you had. I think we'll have a chance to talk more about economic policy as such when we talk about the budget. On the fiscal side, these laws make it possible, primarily of course, to affect economic policy. Of course, that is the basic objective, and we recognize that, in the fiscal strategy, the reduction of public debt, i.e. the share of public debt in the gross social product. We are there to predict an aggressive reduction and we have predicted, which is why we were also criticised by it, and we will certainly be criticised by some other political parties, using cheaper borrowing funds instead of these expensive ones, especially in the changed agro-economic conditions we face. So there's no dispute and there's no disagreement. Unfortunately, the level of our public debt as a share in the gross social product is so high that even such things as the luxury would be a real gift in these circumstances for us, they're not enough for us to be able to leave out these measures that we're talking about today. As for freezing employment, or limiting, I wouldn't call it freezing employment, because there's a mechanism where needs really exist, because we're not going to do the same, and we don't want to treat education, health care and state administration, but we want to have the same level of control over all of them, because it obviously didn't work out so far, as we see from the number of employees we have in the register. As for that, we will implement it in a way and in collaboration with the ministries that will allow us to have, to put it that way, granularity, i.e. a clear picture of which are where the needs are so as not to bring more damage than the benefits of this law. As far as the VAT you mentioned is concerned, that is why I mentioned it, the increase in VAT, or lower VAT rates, is not and cannot be an ideal measure, especially in these conditions of domestic consumption. However, a measure is necessary, a measure is necessary because we have a grey economy at the level at which we are and that our income level as a result is not where it could be. We're working parallelly with an increase in the VAT rate, precisely because it doesn't increase us, but on the contrary, we want to reduce the share of the grey economy and thus make those revenues that we planned, and we planned them realistically and modestly. As for the law on net income cuts, it is very precisely defined. This quote you started, it has been very precisely defined and I have repeatedly explained in the public and it is of course to you all at this point it is quite clear how it is applied and what it means. Not only is it precisely defined in terms of how the reduction occurs and where the wages are paid, but I think for the first time the public sector is defined without exceptions and in a way that is quite just. That's what I'd say in answer, I don't want to owe too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28670	The word has Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28671	Thank you, Minister. I forgot something about that profit-restriction law. Many fellow MPs, and others are wondering, is this a profit reduction, in fact, you call it a solid tax, and that's not what you called it in the very text of the law, is it actually triple taxation? So, taxing gross earnings, then net earnings. When the net amount is obtained it is reduced, therefore, it is a new tax. Will that be the basis for taxing the annual income tax? Well, will it lead to triple taxation? Just that clarification, and how long will that measure apply to you? I think it was a far more elegant solution to cut wages, not to burden the administration this way. Imagine a tax administration that now has to control and pay for 200,000 or 300,000 people over everything it does, I don't know how much it's covered by this measure. You'd better cut your wages than to tax twice or twice as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28672	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28673	Just to be very clear, let me answer your question directly. This will not be the basis for income tax, as clearly indicated. Secondly, as far as this is concerned, it's a profit reduction and that's how it's defined. Did you ask how long it'll be? I hope that through the introduction of payment classes, which we plan to do by July 1st next year, we will manage to introduce order into these 900 coefficients that we have in the public sector and which are not in any way harmonised or transparent to ignore the need for such a single law. I think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28674	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28675	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, members of the Ministry of Finance and colleagues, here we are discussing the measures preceding the budget debate. I would call the legal dictionary a previous question, because if these measures are not proposed, not adopted and not adopted, then it would be absolutely pointless to talk about the 2014 budget as well. I thank the Minister, I would like to commend him, him and his associates, for making an effort and respecting the MPs, respecting parliament, and last week's talks with all the parliamentary clubs, presented to us these economic measures that precede the budget, as well as the budget itself, and thus showed some new manners, that one finance minister and at all ministers should treat parliament, which depends on, in other words, whether something will be adopted or not. It's interesting that we've heard a lot of speeches here, not with any more criticism, and they've just treated negatively critically to the extent that I've been distracted and which I want to support. Of course, the entire SNS parliamentary group will also support, as all 11 of the bill's proposals referred to yesterday in an exhaustive statement. What is important to me to point out is the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act and the extent to which it has been a little bit flaunted here today. It's an important measure, I would say it's a revolutionary measure for Serbia, because we were all part of the government here at some point and fed that angel that has now grown to 740,000 employees in the public sector. That is the measure, I will tell the people's dictionaries, the ban on public sector employment for two years, and the accompanying measure of limiting the number of employees to 10% of the total number of employees in bodies or institutions financed indirectly, or directly from the budget. Only one who's ill-intentioned doesn't want to see what the goal of these measures is. The goal is, of course, to get in the way of daily employment, to increase the number of public sector employees. I said that all of us have contributed to the fact that today, well, we finally got, I don't know if it's the exact information, but some information that's been brought up in discussions in the last few days that it's really an impressive figure for such a small state and such a poor budget. That's 740,000 people. The 740,000 people are costing one third of the entire budget. You will correct the ministers, but these are the data that have now appeared in public. I say, all of these measures, and this measure of good intent, is the proposed measure of your entire government, and the government voted it out in order not to experience an Argentine script, nor Greek, because the Greeks were largely hurt because they had over-employment in the public sector and it was, as in our country, the most attractive and painless. In other words, to compare only the amount, the percentage of wages in the public sector, rather than in the private sector, will be clear why it was done. To this extent, a lamentation over that moratorium of two years, it can't really be understood, nor have the citizens commented negatively at all, because they don't even recognize themselves in that possibility because of the failure of our system created by political parties, that those who are denied will not be able, my God, to find a job in this sector. In other words, there is one exception. You wrote here that the government will consider and have one particular working body and bring in sublegal acts that will allow in those parts of the public sector where it is necessary, health or education, which colleagues today spoke about, opening the door and allowing with the approval of the Government and that working body to still be employed, and this measure closed the door to party personnel, which is extremely good. I'll just say, it's very important what savings will be achieved, I think the projection is somewhere along with the natural outflow of people who retire or find other jobs, for the first year after 2014, 45 million, and in 2015 plus another 75 million, with outstanding success for such a poor country as ours. Penalty policy in this law is a very strict policy, it's great that they are such great punishments, and we are such a people that, when there are no extremely large penalties for both institutions and responsible persons, we simply go deaf about any measure that someone prescribes. Just for the sake of the citizens to say what was the situation and what was the situation in Novi Sad until some cut, in 2004, I took over the management of the City of Novi Sad with nearly 1,200 employees and managed to reduce the number by different measures and hand over to Mr Igor Pavlicic, the mayor from 2008 to 2012, the total number of 968 people. I've tried some measures like you to implement and have the consent of the Greater City of Novi Sad and that's about 250 people less, which is important for the budget of a local environment. In 2008, to say why I would present this example, the Council concluded that the public sector employment in Novi Sad was prohibited, since it is not the law, there are no criminal measures, from 2008 to 2012, followed the stampede of the New Sad City budget and during the handover of 30 September 2012, Mr Igor Pavicic, Mayor, DS, handed over Milos Vučević from SNS to 1,136 employees, and of which the mayor's office had 80 employees, one local self-government, and it was systematicized, yet unfulfilled up to 122 jobs. The EU's European standards are to employ 1,000 employees, one clerk, and that is quite enough. In Serbia it is three to three-and-a-half, and one consulting group that did it for the City of Novi Sad, CSP, they gave us this data that at 1,000, local self-government works perfectly with one clerk. What is the state of public enterprises, public utility companies at local level? No one can determine that. I'd like you to, if you could, help us and even the citizens we're talking to, tell them what employment is like in these companies. If we have 800 at the state level of the company, then we can only imagine what the situation is like there. As far as the AP Vojvodina is concerned, that's my question for you. It's the biggest state secret in Serbia and however you try to look for data on the number of employees you have an embargo, you can't get that data. I would ask if you possess that information or if you are able to tell us as parliamentarians and citizens of Serbia. I know the data from October 5, 2000, then there were 804 employees, 200 were fired immediately, and 200 people went into retirement or other jobs. So in 2000, when the authorities were taken over, 404 were employed. Now it's extremely difficult to determine. I've come up with data from 2010 that there are 1,300 people working in the government of Vojvodina. It's 2010. It's been three years and now it's a question of what does so many officials do, but trust me, you'll get data that's probably twice as big, because that's where you should include the AP Vojvodina Assembly and public enterprises, whose founder is the AP Vojvodina, which has three or four. So I'm commending your measures and there's only one thing that can work with us if it's banned and you have our full support, because otherwise, we don't have our consciousness, and a thousand times it's been warned that the public sector is growing and that we're going to crack like a big balloon, but it doesn't interest anyone until it's banned. So, it's a public secret that anyone who loses a local election in the AP Vojvodina is coming to be employed in the government of Vojvodina, in the Assembly or public enterprises, and that would make it extremely valuable for us to have that information that you're going to tell us here, what kind of an army it is. Just below the budget, there are a lot of amendments regarding the Vojvodina budget, how many employees there are. And we're going to talk about it -- why hasn't the AP Vojvodina financing law been passed yet, and might anyone have been avoiding it, because then the control of these finances would be extremely rigorous? There are exceptions. You've listed who can be employed. I think there will be amendments, but a category of politicians, director of public enterprises, the professional composition of the Army has been forgotten. It would, for example, be a danger to an important area and important interests in our country. This limit of 10% of contract employees, meaning, on occasional and temporary jobs, I think you should think about the segment of culture, where it is simply impossible, we also talked about almost all parliamentary groups, individual projects work if you do not approve occasionally and expand that percentage of 10% of contract employment, how long this project lasts, and it usually takes several months. As for the director of public and public utility companies, please pay attention here, which is the fact that the directors of public enterprises when they are employed, they are founded on a permanent working relationship and remain in that system. They, though reduced or expired, remain in the ranks of advisers and as bad directors advise newly elected ones. I will not continue to owe because of colleagues who have applied for the discussion, but I ask 900m euros bigger than the countries we compare with, because of the expenditure on public sector employment, themselves say how necessary this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28676	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28677	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, for the past year, has been intensively talking about how Serbia is in a major economic crisis, how too much public spending, how we are too much in charge of the country, how we are paying huge interest on loans taken during the previous period, and how it is necessary for the state to tighten the belt and to bring about a set of economic measures that will prevent the country from going bankrupt. The data we received in the Republic of Serbia's budget shows that this year we will only allocate to pay the interest of a billion euros. A billion euros is 10% of the total revenue this country generates annually, i.e. total expenditure is slightly more than income or, translated into perhaps more understandable goods, a billion euros is the total annual production of wheat and corn in Serbia. A million and a half tonnes of wheat and three and a half million tonnes of corn are worth a billion euros. So much to be given to the interest team, first of all, foreign incredits, foreign banks, because unfortunately by destroying the banking sector, all banks in Serbia are under foreign control. It is necessary, therefore, and I also stress from you colleagues in the government, that you be saved. A set of laws should be passed to reduce public spending and expenditure from the budget. We agree, you convinced us that it should be saved and that we should see the measures to be applied so that Serbia does not go bankrupt. You suggested an increase in VAT. On this basis, Serbia will earn more than 20 billion dinars. So there's no savings, there's no income increase. These 20 billion dinars will refer to an increase in taxes on milk, bread, eggs, basic life supplies, medicines, an increase in taxes on computer and other equipment, so they will hit that lowest layer of the population, first of all, pensioners, the poor, who can only buy bread, milk and basic life products. So we're going to take 20 billion away from those poorest people. The next measure is an increase in corporate income tax. On this basis, Serbia will earn more than 8.5 billion dinars, as there will be no more tax relief for economic operators, to invest from those funds they reported as profits in fixed assets. Is this an acceleration of employment, the acceleration of economic activity which is essentially a measure that can contribute to the country's long-term recovery, the employment of a larger number of people and higher revenues in the budget? No, of course not. If they do not have tax reliefs, the economy will continue to stagnate, reduce the number of its employees, have higher costs, have no stimulants and will not be motivated to expand its production and bring new people on that basis and make more money into the state budget. The increase in income tax -- 2.6 billion will be similar. Once again, we will tax the citizens to spend the state, or public administration. The reduction of wages in the public sector -- on this basis, the state of Serbia will again reduce 15 billion dinars, on the one hand it is seen to be savings, because it will not pay so many of its employees, and I can agree that this is the only measure in terms of savings. And is that really a real savings? In last year's budget, salary costs were set at 201 billion dinars. This year's budget envisions a cost of 208 billion dinars. Mr. Minister, when they brought you here, they didn't tell you that over the past year, several thousand people have been employed in this particular state administration. They didn't tell you that all of their party comrades were pushed around the ministries, according to the Assembly, by various agencies, by municipalities and by that basis, 7 billion dinars will go out of the state budget more than it was last year. Then you get this measure where you save on teachers, on doctors, on scientists, on people who work at the university, on young people who need to get into the water. You've already eaten half of yourself by hiring too many people. When they brought you in, you were supposed to do the next thing -- look for a report on how many people they've hired over the past year, get it back to the previous level, and then think about how you're going to cut your salary spending. Also, those measures are absolutely unselective. It can't be the same measure in terms of saving more than 60 or over 100,000 dinars for an excellent surgeon, for a scientific worker at the institute, for a university and for someone, for every official, but for a clerk who works in a ministry, for an agency or somewhere where he doesn't necessarily need to work here and have that kind of salary. What about too many salaries in various independent institutions and bodies? They range from 250 to an astronomical 600, 700,000 dinars. There could have been cuts, not to make a catcher, to cut everyone's hairs off. What about limiting, or banring, further employment in the public sector? In principle, that measure is fine. We have too many people in the public sector and it has to stop. Is it necessary to bring in people who work in colleges, who work in schools, hospitals, with that same bureaucracy again, which is essentially the one who eats basic matter? Well, he can't. What are we going to do with a bunch of your people who are about your age, who are the best college students, who are due to graduate from 10.0 tomorrow and remain assistants? What are we gonna do with them? Should we send them a message - that you're the best, you're great, but since you can't get a job in college, because it's part of the state administration, go abroad? I think it's a very bad message. We can't put everything in the same basket and value people in the same way. To increase discretionary costs in ministries, i.e. the basic measure should have been to reduce costs in various ministries, in various agencies. For discretionary expenses in the budget, you predicted instead of the 87 billion so far for last year, 96 billion. You know very well that discretionary costs, service costs, phone costs, travel costs, specialized services, contract service. Where's the savings here, Minister? No savings, no "s". These were supposed to be anti-crisis measures. I'm afraid they're not anti-crisis, they're crisises. By reducing wages, by limiting employment, by not giving tax incentives, the economy will fall, we will have less money in the budget than you predicted. I think your intentions are very good and we from Nis are really a heart in place that after many years we've got a man in the government, but don't let yourself have an infamous time at the office of the finance minister and come in a position to have your predecessor out there yesterday and he's telling you what needs to be done, and in the past few years he's just had to do it. Mr. Minister, you have to have more courage and that what are the right measures, which are austerity measures in many ministries, to cut it short and tell them that you can't spend it like that, not to suggest introducing new taxes and increasing incomes without expenditure that must be the basic measure of savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28678	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28679	Thank you. Just for a little while, since I think it's a budget topic, most of what you've been talking about, not these specific laws. I will explain in detail the discretionary expenditures you mentioned at the ministries and everything else, we have taken all the measures and on the dissenting side you have interpreted some of them from the revenue side, although they are on the dispensary side. Of course, we have addressed, since you have already mentioned more than just what we are discussing today, we also have a reduction in subsidies, we have a break in the budget law of this practice of granting subsidies below the line that cost us a good 400m euros a year. We also have a reduction in discretionary expenditures. I'll explain in detail why there's an increase, that's the difference in booking, both from income and expenditure, when we talk about it. Of course, what is a fundamental problem is the reduction in public sector earnings that are a third of our budget costs in total, so we have actually addressed the expenditure side very much, we have addressed on the revenue side as much as we had to and not more than that and because we cannot deal with the grey economy in such a short time, but we will do it as you saw in the fiscal strategy in the next two, up to three years, very systematically and have already started reforming the tax administration. We do all of this precisely with that goal that you mentioned as the first problem, that is, of course, the problem, which is the amount of interest, or the cost of interest in our budget, or the level of public debt relative to GDP. The intention of this whole policy is to reduce this, namely to restore credibility in Serbia, that the state is someone who will take over and fulfil its commitments in the future, which we certainly want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28680	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28681	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I didn't know that the state of Serbia and the state administration only existed for the last year and a half and that only the last year and a half had been employed party comrades and that party employment was emerging. There are no innocents in this business and in this party employment. Mr. Lapcevic, and I'm sure everyone in this room should admit something like that. The state administration, both in the state administration and in public enterprises, people were employed in 2005, in 2007, employed both last and previous years. Let's put an end to it sometime. How many times in this House have we experienced criticism over the past year and a half – you are doing party employment. Now that we've suggested that he can't be or think of such a thing anymore, it's no good now either. What's wrong? Has 735, 740,000 people been employed in the last year and a half? It's not. I repeat again, in this business, in party employment, in the pressures that you have suffered in Nis too, because you are part of the local coalition, for employment in the city administration, in the city's public enterprises there is and cannot be all over the SNS. They can't just spill everything on us. You're aware of that, and you're aware that you hired people at some point. Just don't overdo that responsibility right now and those cataclysmic announcements that you're just going over to the SNS. It's not fair. Let's put an end to it sometime. Don't let any more anecdotes in public enterprises, anywhere, local, republican, city, any more, it says people can't go to the bathroom because someone else is gonna take their chair where they're sitting. There's so much pressure both physically and financially and any other. (President: Time.) ) For this reason, I think that this law is an invitation that, with all the risks that we are going to send to young people who are finishing some schools now, the risk of not being able to find a job in the state administration. There are members who define some other rules, but we no longer have business activity. There is no charge of budgets that can endure this further employment in the country. That's why there are no innocents in this business, and I'm asking you not to spill it on SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28682	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28683	Mr. Chairman, first breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106. I don't know on what basis you gave the previous speaker the right to a replica. Based on what? Did anyone mention SNS? I didn't mention the SNS with any of my only gestures and letters. I don't understand what ground he's talking to me about first. I didn't mention SNS, nor did I talk about their party employment. Mr. Babic, if you've recognized yourself, it's your business now, I'm not getting into it right now. Now I'll use the time for a replica, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Minister, this is a drastic example that will convince you of what you've been saying. Last year, 930 million dinars were scheduled for salaries at the Ministry of Agriculture, and this year a billion and 90. No salary increases, no new employment, the ministry said. Why is 160 million more for wages foreseen? No employment, no salary increases, and 201 billion last year, and this 208? How's that? How do you explain that? Yeah, you should put a stop to it. There are no innocents in this business. Let me remind you, in 2005, 27,000 people worked in the state administration. According to government leave programmes and incentives that have been given, 24,000 people have been reduced. In 2008, when we taught your predecessors power, there were 27,000 employees. It's over 33 now. Let's not go in who's what. These predecessors of yours have made a disaster, but why, say, have they employed 90 people in the National Assembly in the last few months? Is the size of the work in the National Assembly so much that it has to increase by 90 people? I'm just talking about having to make a selection where it's necessary to exempt people from the institute, from college, from hospitals, where it takes an expert to get a job from the unnecessary bureaucracy that's eating us. Do you have any pressure? Well, I know you have pressure, but, on the other hand, if you resist that pressure, we'll survive as a state. Anti-crisis measures mean that it stimulates the economy, that people are employed in the economy and that there is more production. We've imported over 50 billion in the past ten years, and we've exported barely 22. Our main income in the VAT budget is about 300 billion, and of its own production is barely half of it. Well, we have to work on these measures to boost the economy, not by increasing artificial incomes, taxing milk, dairy products, bread and other life supplies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28684	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic, replica. Please, just tell me on what basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28685	Just to help you answer that you haven't broken the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28686	You don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28687	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28688	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28689	Article 107. When I advertise a breach of Rules of Procedure, I have to say something, and yet it is in the context that there are no innocents in the National Assembly or political options because employment is imputed in the National Assembly, although the previous speaker knows very well that some of these employees are also employed in other parliamentary groups for the needs of other parliamentary groups and for the initiative of other parliamentary groups. Don't forget that. The reason I just called was responsibility. SNS doesn't run away from responsibility. When it comes to the functioning of our country over the past year and a half, we don't hide behind coalition partners, so we say it's their ministry. This is our government. This is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The SNS is the biggest factor in this government and the most responsible. We're not hiding, and we're not ashamed of people with whom we share the same values, and that's why I called, although there's no direct mention of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28690	Thank you. National MP Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28691	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. On what basis does Mr. Babic speak? So now I'm not going to get into whether he had a right to a replica or not. What is this, then, through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, is responding to advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Lapcevic? This is not allowed, Mr Popovic, and especially is not allowed to talk through the breach of the Rules of Procedure about employees of the National Assembly, who cannot defend themselves here and respond. What do employees have to do with MPs? How many people is that? I think there's two people in the LDP parliamentary group. There are still no 45 parliamentary groups here, so that's why 90 people are employed. Speaking of which, we discussed this at the Administrative Committee, since the rapper for increasing the mass of profit and advancement in the ministry, so don't open the question of how it is progressing in the ministry, let's say, in the National Assembly, what the talks of employees with the leadership of the National Assembly look like, what are these people exposed to, how their work is measured. Maybe we should talk about it at some point – who, as well as how arrogantly he treats people who have decided to work here and who are not political. I don't get into it at all when they come in, whether they're yellow, blue or red, but if we're talking about fixing the situation in the state administration and we're talking about a situation where there are or no innocents, and these people can't answer, then please make sure that they, their fates and lives don't get involved in this party debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28692	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28693	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, if I may, discuss the subject. In the beginning, my colleagues, Dejan Radenkovic and Zoran Kasalovic, expressed the view of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposed laws on the agenda. It's 11 proposals for financial laws. Since we're completely consensual and unique, let me just repeat what they said and keep on not holding on to it, and I'll stick to a few other details. What is the feature in Serbia at this point, at which we all agree? It's a difficult economic and social situation, and we're all in this together. What else is characteristic? That it must be a priority in the government's work, resolving the difficult situation in the government's work, that all other issues will depend on whether we solve these economic and social issues. What's the situation in this area we're talking about today? That's what I want to agree with, what Mr. Minister said yesterday, I don't even know if in the first sentence, facing reality. The reality is the public debt crisis that jumped from 29 to 64 seems to me, a high deficit and insufficient economic activity, which means we have a lot of them and in many ways that they spend and what we don't have, and very few of those who make money, who make money. In such a situation, the first feature of this proposal is, Mr. Minister, you have a confession, that you have admitted the problem and you have not hidden it and said – Serbia, this is how we have to take action to get out of it. That's what this one set of measures is all about. You said this was the first step towards resolving the high budget deficit. I agree with that, and I support it. You said the goal was to stabilise public finances and start a business. For that purpose, however difficult and necessary these measures are, we will support you to get to him at last. You have also announced other laws to improve the economic environment, and it certainly does not need to be slowed down. But what I want to draw attention to is the announcement of a bill, in the coming period, among other things, the Labour Act. It is certainly necessary to correct that law. What I want to warn you is that as a government, you're doing a lot more and more coordinated work on preparing these laws. It's not good that we have four versions in public. Everyone writes their own law, everyone has their own policy. Mr. Minister, there is only one policy, a government policy, and here you are in the government fighting for that policy. Don't just, since there's a lot of deafening public presence, one thesis that the Labour Act is the one that made a terrible privatisation, which has established a poor economic system in this country, which has fired so many hundreds of thousands of people, made public debt, etc. Downloaded – don't let the workers be the ones who are responsible for such a catastrophic economic situation. I'm telling you this for a reason, the worker has to get his dignity back to work, is he making a profit? Now unfortunately, more and more and more public pressure that is just one clean cost. He's no longer a man, he's a expense, and he needs to be reduced. So, I repeat, time has no place to go, and economic reform. You also announced social reforms. You called it major reforms. They should be supported. But I warn you, without the social dialogue of all partners and employers, and unions, and government, no reform can succeed. I invite you, not you, but the entire government, to come to this extent through social dialogue. Neither economic nor social reform can succeed unless they are socially just. What I'm saying is, these 11 financial laws don't talk about development. This will be discussed by the budget which is, in fact, the essence of economic policy and other acts. They're talking about financial consolidation. They discuss the need to increase revenues on the one hand and limit expenditure on the other. I'll take a quick look at some of them, when it comes to VAT and profit tax. When it comes to VAT, it's essential that we support it, but it's aware that it's going to reduce consumption, and it's going to increase the price. Tax on profit we want to support even though they do not give effect in 2014. Because of the need to enter tax reform, to tax more capital, and less work, and that needs to be a guideline. When it comes to expenditure, the biggest contribution to expenditure cuts is actually made by employees and pensioners, through limited indexation of salaries and pensions and through a ban on employment for two years. What I want to warn you about at one point is that you give one answer. Next year's salaries are increasing according to that 0.5 index, in October 1%, because that's already a measure taken and that's not in these bill proposals, but in one place you said that if a pay-equal regulation is not passed by July 1st, they won't be able to increase. I want to give strong support to the adoption of rules for equalising wages, because what is happening in Serbia is becoming pointless. The same jobs in different places are very different for employees and for officials. Excuse me, the President of the Republic seems to be the least responsible of all possible officials, different protectors. That's not good. Is it logical that the president's chief of staff has a higher salary than the president of the assembly? We've been insisting on it for so long, let's just do it. We're not looking for more mass than to do justice. That's how I understand the regulation you're talking about, the pay evening, but you have to explain what it means if it's not passed, there won't be an increase in pensions of 0.5? It should be the one who didn't bring it, not the ones who used it. The second thing I want to draw attention to is that I don't think there's any need to renew the central payment bill anymore. Let this be the last deadline, because it's just too long to put it off. When it comes to a ban on employment, I want to say that I support that measure, but as a direction. I've heard from you that about 740,000 people are at stake. Please be careful here too and be honest here. Don't make a public climate that they're gnomes. In these 740,000 people there are also miners of the Kolubar Basena Kolubara which produce and belong to the sector, as well as in Kostolc, so as not to list any further. Of course, public services such as doctors, professors, etc. It's a significant measure that can contribute to how much I've calculated by about 6% in two years, which is not a small number. But I want to point out the government's great responsibility to bring and support your approach to bring some rules where it really needs to be the first move towards real rationalization, but that won't reduce capacity and pay grade. That's the solution. This is the first move. What's the government's responsibility? When she determines not to compromise this whole measure, but at the same time to make sure it's not the same everywhere, in education, in health, in culture, etc. If one teacher leaves, another teacher has to come. Well, as I would say, it's not a one-level haircut. Since time is running out, I'm gonna skip the rest, and I'm just gonna hang on to the last one, and that's what I want to tell you. You'll get support for these measures, but you'll get a mission. The mission is next. In addition to all the measures in force and new ones, fiscal consolidation remains the biggest problem and a chance for bigger revenues, which is to address tax non-discipline and grey economy problems. Why do I say that? Because in Serbia it became normal, almost as a culture not to pay taxes, contributions, taxes, bills, work on black, black trade, huge debts, etc., and we forgive, encourage, reduce, unfair to those who pay, because through price increases they pay for those who do not pay, etc. You have a great task and responsibility to stand in Serbia once and to say – tax must be paid, contributions must be paid, bills, taxes and everything else must be paid. There's a chance for higher incomes than those mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28694	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, I should now be talking about 11 laws proposed by the government, amendments and additions to 11 laws that are very important and without whose adoption it is impossible to discuss the budget and adopt that budget. It is clear that in such a well-conceived agenda where we need to seriously analyse 11 laws, a more detailed analysis is not realistically possible. I will therefore remain only in some of the solutions of these 11 proposed laws, because I think they best paint what the Government is essentially offering, what its economic policy is, what the outcomes of such economic policies are, and what the 2014 budget will look like and what changes are being proposed. In short, the Government tells us through these laws that in 2014, 2015 and 2016 will continue with the decline of the standard of living, as the increase in wages and pensions will take place in negligible scope. In 2014 only 1.5%, in 2015 and 2016 1%, which means that profits and pensions will not follow inflation either. They will further impoverish those citizens who are highly educated, work in health, education, science, culture, and others highly educated in the public sector who earn more than 60,000 dinars. They're going to be additionally reduced profits. I would not agree that this measure is some sort of solidarity tax. I would say that this is about introducing a sort of small-door plane, and our system doesn't need that, and we haven't run all these reforms since 2000. On the other hand, the tax on basic life supplies will increase, so with smaller salaries and pensions we will pay more expensive bread, municipal services, basic life supplies, medicines. In one word, the government promises us a burning life in the next three years for 1,700,000 pensioners and more than 700,000 public sector employees. If we know that in the first 18 months of this government's mandate, the purchasing power of the population has fallen by about 5%, in fact, by these amendments to the budget law that prepares us, the purchasing power of the population will fall by 7.3% in the coming period. Therefore, not only reduces public spending, but also private consumption. If we all remember, when the government took an oath here, explained the policy it was going to lead, it explicitly said that the crisis would not be solved by reducing the standard of citizens and hitting on the personal consumption of citizens. Now I am not going to enter into a debate that is not just about us, not only in Europe, in the whole world – could such a reduction in public and personal spending be a way out of the economic crisis that has covered the whole world? But the government has defined itself for this policy, it's her policy, it's obvious now. Whether we're going to know that this is a policy of neoliberal concept or some other name is to name it, it doesn't matter. It is important that it has shifted to the back of all citizens the burden of this crisis without exception, and to the back of those with the lowest incomes through the collection of basic life supplies, communal services and medicines, and those with slightly higher incomes, whose earnings are actually reduced, for some and up to 10%. It is too high to remind that this is not the government's policy to which it has gained citizens' trust and the ability to exercise power, but even this concept behind which the government has stood must contain measures that encourage economic activity and employment, because without such measures it is clear that such a policy surely leads to a further Sunflower and economics and, which is very important and painful, a further increase in unemployment. Such measures are almost gone and that is what is further worrying, but there will be opportunities to talk more about the budget. Now I'm just going to realize that it's a very strange commitment for any government to sacrifice the standard of citizens, and as a consequence, as a result, as a goal or consequence, however, it has a greater responsibility for the country. Then the question arises – does this sacrifice make any sense? What did the government actually order with such a package of measures? If we look more closely at the Budgetary System Act, where there are solutions that will lead to very difficult consequences, I mean, above all, to the ban on employment in the public sector in 2014 and 2015, and that ban has not been followed, it is announced again in the manner of this government for the future, therefore, it is not followed by a clear strategy for reforming the public sector. So the government says this -- if someone believed the government would reform the state administration they promised, he was wrong. This freezes the existing situation in the public sector. To be clear, this cannot be a criticism of the work of the finance minister who has been here since recently, but we must not forget that this government has been spending its mandate for 18 months without doing anything to reform the public administration. The government also said that these solutions offered by it actually rewards all those who have so far failed to comply with the legal restrictions on public sector employment and punishes all those who have acted rationally. For example, I know that in the social protection sector there is a very rational attitude towards employment. Today, there are problems because of the insufficient number of workers in social work centres, insufficient number of inspectors and not only in the social protection sector, but also in labour inspectors who care about safety at work. One such measure seriously endangers the functioning of some sectors, the application of the law, above all the Labour Act and the Inspection Act, which is very important. I must say, this government has also said through these measures that its criticism so-called. party employment is pure demagogy, as it has this law amnested any party employment in the last 18 months. Just before we heard the example of the New Now. In the last 18 months in Novi Sad, on the SNS Council List for City Councillors, out of 78 committees, 47 have already been employed in the public services of Novi Sad. It's now amnesty. What is very important and what I want to point out, and the previous governments have been facing the problem of large expenditure on public sector salaries, trying to solve it with laws and some other measures, but all governments, including the government that was transformed by DS, have never, when they talked about public sector unemployment, thought of employees in health, education, science, culture. First of all, the measures always applied to employees in the administration. This government doesn't distinguish a surgeon in the O.R., a scientist at a research institute from someone employed in the administration, and it's really scandalous. If we've taken serious policies to cut public sector employees' salaries, I'll give you some data. The DS government reduced 10% of the cost for republican employees and 5% at local self-government level, so in 2012, the position in the republican budget was lower by 250m euros compared to 2008. But what's going on? As early as 2013, this position, in the new government's mandate, has increased by an additional 150m euros, if we want to talk about who was seriously dealing with this really relevant problem, from the public finances' point of view. With regard to this government's proposal to ban employment in the public sector, I would especially like to emphasise the tragic consequences of this solution on youth employment and higher education. What did the government make clear to them? In Serbia we don't need you, pack up in the world, if you can. The consequences of this ban cannot be tempered by possible employment in the private sector, as the employers' union recently published a survey into which as many as 90% of employers in Serbia have declared that in 2014 they will not be able to employ young people. So, while all the governments of the world are fully aware that youth unemployment is a growing problem with long-term consequences, not only for individuals but also for the community, the economy, society, and they are trying to realise the measures that will help solve this problem, our government is truly original, it has come up with one measure of banning employment, and it is safe for me, unique in the world. It is known that in Serbia almost 52% is youth unemployment. Their situation must be addressed urgently, as fewer youth employees automatically mean less taxpayers for the state and less consumption. When a young man lives at a financial minimum, he does not start a family, does not solve the housing issue, does not plan the future, in one word, and therefore not only suffers the growth of a country, but the social system is also at risk. As you know, we have a pension disability system where current employees provide pensions for current pensioners. So, young people pay for older ones. If this negligent attitude towards youth employment continues, not only the social security of a part of the population can be compromised, but I would say social security. I have submitted, as well as colleagues from the DS Parliament Club, a series of amendments to reduce the adverse consequences of the proposed legislative solutions in some way. One of these amendments is to exempt young people from this ban on public sector employment from education, science, health and culture, but I will talk more about it when the debate is in particular. It is clear why MPs of the DS are unable to support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28696	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers, the reason why I as a member of the SNS parliamentary group, and the President of the Roma Party, can support this set of laws is the fact that I see it as a space, as a time, or as an opportunity to do all of those systemic changes that you've been talking about, that you can, within a long period of time, mean, which is not just a few months in a fiscal year, or one period in the next fiscal year, to do away with all those negativitys that have been done many years ago, because it's simply impossible to do it that way. Impossible state administration piled up by dozens, 15 years back that it simply rationalises in two, three, four, or five months. We have a serious problem here, do we want to create a situation to create new social cases from these people, and for which you are not responsible, nor is this government responsible, but has been done for many years. In that direction, it is necessary to give the right space, to give you the right time, and to you as a man that I greatly appreciate, as an expert, and to this government that it really does in the next few years a thing that must bring Serbia into a healthy situation. This healthy situation can only be achieved if a broad social consensus is reached on key issues and on key economic policies and issues of functioning of the state administration in Serbia. Where did we make the problem? We've brought a series of strategies back ten years. A poverty reduction strategy, a strategy for Roma integration, a strategy for one, the second, the fifth. However, when these strategies were to be realised by them, nothing was done, except that in one demagogue way they actually turned into something quite third, into something called corruption. In that sense, I'm going to stick to a few things that you were talking about in the code, and I think they're good. I speak with the position of the socially endangered and from the position of members of the Roma national community. If you work in the state administration controlledly, then I expect that you will help, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will help sat down what was still 2006, 2007, 2008, all governments spoke and proclaimed, and did not. What was voted in 2007 by the vast majority of the opposition, who are here, which is that the state administration achieves equal participation of members of national communities, i.e. socially endangered categories. Instead of what we've been doing since 2007, and today we have, let's say, when we talk about the Roma, if there are 2%, 3% of Roma in the total population, then there should be 2% or 3% in the general government, or public administration, whatever we're talking about at different levels that are paid from the state budget. What this government has done and what I have to mention, which has made an important move forward, that's next. At the Ministry of Health, about 25 people, members of the Roma Nationality, by affirmative measures, were hired, and six people were already employed there. Just two days ago, we agreed with the MUP that 50 members of the Roma Nationality were working in municipalities at the MUP. We simply have to do it, to bring the public administration closer to that community. Otherwise you have a situation where we used to have a mouthful of demagogy. Now that we've entered this process of solving, then some people have a problem with why we're solving it, and on the other hand, we're saying that we want to enter Europe, we have a European path. Europe is clearly giving signals – solve the question of the most socially endangered – especially Roma, because they come as asylum seekers, and we are deafening ourselves in this very system. I'm saying that this government has this level of social responsibility, of responsibility to the most vulnerable, because it's dealing with these problems. In that sense, I welcome the idea that you're talking about, that we need to have a consolidated way of monitoring the employment of people in public administration and actually realising the strategies we're talking about. To really know, we have defined this as a problem, no matter how much the two, three or a few MPs liked it, but definitely the state of Serbia has defined it as a priority and then it can, in a consolidated way, realise that priority that it has defined. I am deeply convinced that these measures are your attempt to put an end to it, and I think it should know the public, that your attempt to consolidate the Republic of Serbia in a longer period of time is actually economical. In order to do so, not only depends on you as finance minister, we must have a broad consensus on what the priorities of Serbia's economic development are. We must have a broad consensus in which direction we want, what we want Serbia to offer the EU as its product. Whether these are agricultural products, whether they are some IT technology services, which is a Serbian chance in the EU. When we define that, I expect you as finance minister, as someone I value, once again as an expert, to adapt in this direction and tax system and system of relief and other giving systems to these strategic objectives. Because I'm afraid that Serbia was wandering that it had no clear direction, a clear goal, and then we have much less effects than the funds we've invested. In this regard, I support the discussion of certain colleagues who spoke from different parliamentary groups and your predecessor minister that Serbia must reach a broad social consensus on what it is that we want to do tomorrow. It's not up to you personally. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia in the current composition has the strength to make that clear strategy, to offer it, to reach a consensus on it, wider, not only within the government. On the basis of the fact that it is really on the long-term exit of Serbia from the economic crisis and the moment Serbia enters the EU, indeed, to enter as someone who is a producer who offers production, who can offer something on the European market, not someone who will open only markets and sell goods from the EU, without being able to find Serbian products. In that sense, I support this set of laws as a chance for both you and the government to really do what needs to be done over a number of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28698	The word is made by MP Ivan Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28699	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Krstic, probably doesn't need to repeat my predecessors by finding that you have the support of the URS personally. But given the reconstruction of the government that lasted several months, the engagement of famous people from the financial world as advisors, I expected a much more serious set of laws that would allow for a smaller budget deficit. What did we get instead? The proposal of the Law on the reduction of the net income of persons in the public sector, by introducing so-called you reduce your budget deficit, not personally, but the government, by 120m euros, which you will agree to drop in the sea. The increase in VAT, primarily on basic life intentions that enter the consumer basket, therefore, food, meat, bread, eggs, what every family must buy daily, I believe that you are aware that these measures can be returned as boomerang through the decline of consumption and production reduction. I hope, in fact, I'm sure you've well balanced on one side of the measures you're proposing and the negative effects that are completely safe, and that's a drop in consumption and a decrease in production. That's what we got in the proposal for 11 financial laws that we're considering today. What's what I expected? I expected from the pompously announced measures of the reconstructed government above all, and without delay, an urgent solution to public enterprises and state banks to which budgets are uncontrollably allocated. The failed business of public and state-owned enterprises and banks will cost the country about 1.7% of GDP or around 600m euros in 2014. So that is the amount that is five times the amount of the effect of introducing a solidarity tax. The payment of these commitments is the main reason why the deficit in 2014 despite the introduction of a solidarity tax on earnings and an increase in VAT rates, will increase rather than decrease. If we move forward in 2014 we expect new losses from public enterprises and banks that will cost the state at least 630m euros, which will be paid as of 2015. Take, for example. Serbia's which only banks, the debt of "Srbigas" to banks, is over 800m euros. The NIS debt is 224m euros and a new debt planned in 2014 is around 200m euros. The multi-year failed business of "Serbigas" will turn to taxpayers in the coming years, and that is now certain. Not to mention "Serb Railway", Galenika, former JAT, the situation is similar, but "Serbiagas" is the biggest problem, as the biggest frog," according to popularly, to be swallowed first with a debt of over a billion euros. That's what I expected. What citizens can expect from a set of financial laws that we are considering today. First of all, there must be a reduction in salary in 2014. There's an increase in the cost of living and a reduction in living standards. It's also possible to lose a job, for some it's safe to lose a job. Therefore, the amount of salary will be lower, of course for those who are fortunate and do not run out of work, for basic life intentions more money will have to be allocated, increased local taxes and taxis, will increase family expenditure in Serbia, as the reduction of local self-government transfer, the amount of transfer will return to municipalities and cities in Serbia, to the level of 2007. Local self-government will, of course, have to reach aside from savings to raise taxes and local taxis, which will further deprive home budgets. At the very end, Mr. Krstic, you didn't have the courage to face the most important problems immediately, not you personally, but the government. You probably wanted it yourself, but you don't have the support of the entire government from the set of these 11 laws, and you don't seem to have the support of Mr. Krstic, the entire government. Most importantly, you do not have political support, and this is seen from the presentation of individual representatives, MPs belonging to the position. You have proposed what is most painless for you as a government, measures that will not cause further earthquakes within the government, so the burden of the crisis has been brought down on the citizens. We are discussing this set of financial laws here in the highest House of Representatives, all citizens, we, as MPs, representatives of citizens must have that in mind, we must protect the interests of citizens. I also ask the MPs of the opposition's authorities and MPs to keep that in mind in the voting day and to vote as they think it is best for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28700	The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28701	The respected chairman, respected ministers and gentlemen of the ministry, respected citizens, has no doubt that the task of the proposed laws is a necessary measure to stabilise public functions, in a situation where public debt was increased by 29% of GDP in 2008, and came to 64% at the end of 2013, the question of the responsibility of the previous governments is raised, but the willingness of this government not to hesitate to make the budget and following the laws look nice, but realistic. Gentlemen, for ten years, the economic destruction of this country is taking place, and now that we've touched the bottom and it's up to the surface, it's those who don't have the right to do so that they teach both the government and the citizens. You've made us rare, and perhaps the only country that has a growing deficit, five years in a row. The later minds of those who, first of all, are responsible for the state we are in, the citizens are sick of it. They know the rule of being very rich, a lot of them need to be poor or poor. They also know how and how and who has become rich in the country of Serbia. Unfortunately, the burden of reform must be borne by all. What does that mean we all have to take? Salary cuts. Which one? The rock's been established. How many people in Serbia today have over 60,000, and in these particular people, someone is trying to create a panic, a panic called - they won't even have bread. Already, many don't have anything else, except for bread. Restricted employment. What employment? Gentlemen, I am the mother of three children, of whom only one works. Six years ago, a competition was accepted with medium professional training even though it was college-educated. I agree that all the measures that this country will make in the future a decent life in it, we must all carry, but I cannot agree with that, and I cannot listen when someone says that in Novi Sad, a city from which I come from 78 council members who make up the City Assembly, 47 is ruling, or most of them are employed in this term in public enterprises, it's a lie and it's a lie. How many DS board members are employed in municipal and public enterprises? I can't say, since I don't know how many more councilmen there are, they keep going from one side to the other, and I don't want to waste any time on that. One thing I know for sure, all those who did not stay in office, both in the city council and in the mayor's office, starting with him, Mr. Pavlicic, found their arrest in the province's public enterprises, say "Vojvod's water". What's the status of the province's employees? Nobody here knows, and how do they say I don't even know when we're gonna find out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28702	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Krstic, Serbia is unfortunately not a promised country, and after yesterday's debate, which has abounded in angry demagogy, I realized that we are still just a country of promises. Mr. Krstic, you've been educated abroad, and that's good, I've finished my schools in Serbia, in a period when Google and Wikipedia were gone, you'll allow me, with as much knowledge as I have of these things, to express my disagreement with the proposed law package. Not only to criticise you for criticism, but to propose a different concept in Serbia in which economic policy has so far been led and based solely on public spending and subsidies, which has also led us to the destruction of domestic economy, and that public debt has reached our level of 64% of gross social product. Mr. Cross, I know what your situation is. Miracles are expected of you, but neither will you nor Mr. Radulovic succeed in dealing with this himself. What awaits us all in the coming years is torment, are tears, is lelek, because for a long, long time we won't get better. This country spent money on its own funding and we're not far from bankruptcy. Every year, the state spends two billion euros more than it creates, and such a system cannot survive. Serbia has the largest expenditure in the region and I'm really not sure that cut tobacco, that delaying the restitution fee for 2015 will be able to help us overcome this crisis. Come on, as you said yesterday, let's face reality. The state is the biggest employer. She employs 700,000 people. What's the problem? Which these people often served as an electoral body. You are now in a position to draw certain cuts and you will not be able to pay those votes in some of the next elections. The state of Serbia cannot create a 7% deficit. There's no room for such a thing, because I don't see who's going to save and who's going to squeeze in the next period. Most of the budget goes to salaries and pensions. Payments in the public sector and grants to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund. Salaries and pensions are small, but so low they don't have real coverage. You provided for one of these laws in the package to increase pensions by 1% in 2015 and 2016. If the average pension in Serbia is 23,000 dinars, in 2015, pensioners will receive 230 dinars more from two parts in April and October. The private sector has 25% lower salaries than administrative employees, and this sector should support the same administration. The state is asking citizens to tighten the belt and spends two billion euros more than it earns. The problem, of course, is that we have had a very low GDP level for years and it takes years of hard work to change that. We've been talking about public enterprises here, the ones under quotes, the successful ones and the ones in restructuring. You know well that every eight dinar in the Republic of Serbia's budget goes right to cover their debts. The social policy in this country is unfortunately driven by a low electricity price and a top-of-the-line prank that has been going on for the past few years, when we talk about cheap gas. When "Srbigas" which has a loss of a billion euros transfers its debt here, in law form, to the National Assembly and it turns into a public debt, the state raises a loan that brings back all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and then someone has the nerve to say they pay for cheap gas. During that time, the directors of certain public enterprises receive a salary of 2,000 euros, 5,000 euros, someone has 10,000 euros, one is paid as Christiano Ronaldo per month. I wish the company was making results, but it was making millions of losses. It's not worth doing it for free, not having any pay, it's a pest if it runs the company that way. I would understand that we pay the directors, the managers, to give them a certain bonus, but if they have a result, even the "Stars" footballers, who brought us the title of champion of Europe, were better paid than these now. A good player has to be paid. Quality costs, and that's what I stand for. We all know what the problem is. The consumption fell slightly compared to last year, and that means that we live worse than in 2012. It is the best reflection of Serbia's population standards. During that time, how many new people are employed in the Galenica, in the Danube, in the EPS, in the "Serbian" Ministry of the Republic of Serbia? In the private sector, 400,000 people have lost their jobs and hardly anyone can talk about it. During that time, 25,000 new people were employed in the state administration. The gray economy is booming. Certainly, the tax hike will not reduce the grey economy, but will be even more widespread. Only for interest next year should we allocate nearly 120 billion dinars, and total costs are estimated at 5 billion euros. Where is it to make up for when our investments fell by 18%? Serbia's economy is clinically dead, which means there will be no growth as planned and planned. Just to imagine the situation if agriculture fails in the next season. It's not enough what we've heard here that the biggest exporter "Fiat", NIS, is the chemical industry. A greater dispersion must be made for companies that are foreign-trade-oriented. The situation in the country has deteriorated dramatically, and that's what we said when the 2013 budget was adopted that wasn't realistically planned. I'm sure, and we'll see to it very soon, at first rebalancing, that we were right this time. What we insist on is a cost-effective side. We know it has to be saved, but not like this. The state can up to some limit, in due course, issue guarantees, raise loans. I know you need a loan for the freeway, but the problem is the highway's gone. The other day we were talking, I said, like a famous economist said, either you have a highway or you don't have a minister. That's where the story ends. Where are the capital investments? What does the state do besides spend and what it owes a lot? You're drawing corridor 11, which we need, and Corridor 10 isn't finished either. Since 2008 to date, 10 billion euros have been broken into consumption, which is the value of Corridor 10 in the Republic of Serbia. It used to dream of economic ambassadors, and today it's fantasizing about the canal and the developed IT sector in Serbia. Please, Mr. Minister, if you can influence that expert who is going to make mobile phones in Serbia is urgently involved in a team that is going to make the Danube channel - Morava - the Macedonian border, because I think it will contribute extremely to this project. IT services are essential for every activity. The IT sector is a strategic branch, and you raise VATs from 8% to 20%. It can only be concluded that your only strategy is to fill the budget. We believe that there is a need to tax the property more, and less work and that tax policy must be such as to stimulate new employment. Your tax administration has released information that 406 billion dinars of tax debt are invulnerable. If you don't write off part of the loan, if you don't make a debt reprogramme, I think the Greek scenario follows us. The previous government's agreement, as it had recently been settled, with the IMF, was to reduce the number of employees in the state administration to 28,000. That's how long it was in 2008 when we left the government. There are now over 33,000. Who hired these people? It's not a solution to the ban on new employment. A problem in rationalization. Fire where it's wrong and where it's not needed, and hire people where they're needed and where they can work. Give us real categories, real prices, and help those people who don't have a chance to pay. I know what's waiting for you in the coming months. The Economic Forum is soon to follow. You will make arrangements here, and you serve citizens the story that everything in Serbia is booming, the stream of roaches and birds is chirping, and it's far from true truth. I told you, Minister, we're not America. We can't print dinars like they print dollars. I told you that and the budget, and to God, and these laws that we're talking about remind me of a Chinese store that has everything, but nothing's wrong. I trust you weren't born in a chair. But unfortunately, like some of the ministers who used to do this job before you, I'm afraid you're hitting your head in a shallow position by your colleagues from other ministries, and that's not good for running a responsible policy and finance in one country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28704	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28705	Thank you. I'll be brief, since there weren't a lot of words about laws. I'd like to relate to a few previous things. We have suggested something that is difficult to suggest and something that others did not have the courage to suggest earlier. We have proposed something because it was necessary to propose it and it is certainly not easy, but we have tried to achieve some balance between the things we propose and the things we have decided that we do not have to go with them right now in a strong and determined intention that we will address the main problems, start with the de facto immediately, and so we decided not to touch what has already been passed by law - the indexation of pensions in the following year, where you say it is easy because it is 230 dinars, but on the other hand, you are criticising the VAT which averagely increases the consumer basket by about 230 dinars, and which, according to the allegations we have from retailing, or association, is not going to happen, because it will not necessarily even need to increase the VAT to be copied into price increases. I fully agree with you on this second finding, regarding that if we take credit for the highway, and there is no highway, that something should happen. I'm here, as far as I can tell, precisely because one such reconstruction was done a few months ago. That's how I look at it, that's how I look at the government, and believe me, that's how we collegiate and cooperate in this reconstructed government. And with that, there's a new loan, which I'm assuming you're getting attached to the highway. It is such that it actually allows the withdrawal, or allows adding to public debt if and only if it has results in implementation by phases. Finally, of course, that's what we stand for and the whole package of measures that goes beyond the package of these 11 laws relating to the fiscal consolidation that we're talking about, and with regard to the budget, the whole package of measures is just about introducing metricocracy into the public sector as such. The freezing of employment, i.e. limiting employment, the introduction of some control in public sector employment, which we see has more people than you thought, which is the state, when you say - the state asks citizens to do one thing, and it does not do another. It is a state. The state finances both education and health care and whether it goes through the fund or through other ways, that is, the way we want to go, that is why I mentioned it and why we work on pay classes, the way people, or employees, will not promote themselves unless they are good enough and that rationalization is what we need. I'm not getting into it, there's no time for us as the Ministry of Finance to question when there's been an increase. The cross-section is alarmed enough for me to devote myself exclusively to the future. That's what we're working on. I leave this to be debated when there's time for it and when we have more space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28706	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Petkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28707	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Try to understand. I have eight minutes to talk about 11 laws that are practically inverted into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so it is not easy to look back at every detail of these proposed laws. I have one question. If 4.200,000 euros are granted, how many have been withdrawn, how many have we not used? Why didn't we use them? How much interest do we pay on that? When we talk about VAT, let's see in a few months how the budget will be charged precisely because of the increase in VAT from eight to 20% and for bread, milk, medicines and basic needs from eight to ten percent. Will you do it at the end of the year? Last time it missed by a billion. I'm sure you'll have much less income this time. When I talk about new employment, we all swear on an independent judiciary here. Explain to me, after 2001, it didn't happen to the judges to cut their wages, do their jobs, judge them, be more efficient, do their job properly, what they were chosen to do, what they swore before us here, and you're going to tax them. I didn't say that all of those 700,000 people who work in the state administration are good, not doctors, not teachers, we see, nor the gendarmes are not good, nor the charter workers, so we don't make any categorizations now. This is not a good way, and you will face very quickly that these measures are wrong and that it is devastating to two years to limit such a thing. We will talk in the debate on amendments how devastating this is only for certain local self-governments, for those self-governments that respect the law, which have a salary fund, which do not receive new employees, cannot employ an expert, an inspector, a man who needs it because someone is already taking his place, and the legislation does not allow you to fire him. We have been working on the system since who knows how many years ago, when some other ideas have been represented in the development of local self-government and economy in the Republic of Serbia and we need to change these laws, of course, and the Labour Act, as well as a series of accompanying laws that will make this possible. I don't want to fire someone because I have a whim. No one's gonna fire a good worker, but I can't hire a young expert to work here because someone's sitting there, threw his legs under the table, waiting for the pension to come. It's inadmissible and it has to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28708	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28709	Dear President, Mr Minister, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Tobacco aims to create all necessary conditions dealing with the suppression of illegal tobacco and tobacco products in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to realise the collection of excise incomes on tobacco products being poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law lays down and provides for conditions relating to tobacco producers from that initial process of the supply of seed, i.e. the dispersion of tobacco, the law stipulates that only a registered producer can obtain seed or the dispersion of tobacco. The law also obliges the tobacco producer who is registered in the tobacco producer's register to sell only tobacco processors that are registered in tobacco manufacturers' registers. The tobacco processor also undertakes to sell the processed tobacco exclusively to the manufacturer of tobacco products that is registered in the registers of tobacco producers. This legal integration of manufacturers, processors and manufacturers of tobacco products creates controls from the beginning of tobacco production to the placing on the market of tobacco products, with the mandatory application of excise duties on tobacco products. The draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law covers and implements criminal policies for all persons participating in tobacco production and who violate this law during their production. The law also imposes fines on such violations. These fines are now largely increasing and ranging from several thousand dinars to several million dinars. The draft law also sets out the task, objective and competence of phytosanitary inspectors and agricultural inspectors who conduct control over tobacco production and tobacco products. The phytosanitary inspector has the right to verify the production, types and class of tobacco, check the use of seed tobacco for the production of raspberries, check the process of production of tobacco, tobacco in the list, quantity and quality of tobacco in the list. The phytosanitary inspector by law is also authorised to prohibit the production or destruction of so far if tobacco seed is used which is not produced under the rules on seeds. It may also prohibit tobacco production if an irregularity is established in the performance of these activities, initiate a process to withdraw a tobacco production permit if the authorisation holder ceases to fulfil the conditions prescribed for its issue. The agricultural inspector shall have the right and the duty to verify the process of production of processed tobacco, verify the quantity of tobacco purchased in the list, the types and classes of tobacco, the manufacturer of tobacco, the quantity of tobacco processed by types and classes and verify the conditions for processing tobacco and the records conducted by the tobacco processor, which I consider necessary for this control and why this law serves. On the basis of the above, I believe that the objectives of the law are clear, because this law curbs illegal traffic of tobacco and tobacco products in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and this way carries out the planned collection of excise revenues on products of this origin, in this case tobacco. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law, as well as other sets of laws concerning tax and economic work. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28710	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28711	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have on the agenda a set of tax laws that are prepared for the budget to be discussed in a few days. Eleven laws, the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Law on Income Tax, Tobacco, etc., I would not take up my valuable time. Of course, it's all about amendments and additions to the law. Minister, you've been called in, is that right, to help this incompetent government try to save what can be saved? You came, you probably didn't know what was waiting for you. You can't, Minister, get the country out of the crisis by increasing the VAT, or the sales tax from 8% to 10%, and I guess, when they asked you to come back, they didn't expect you to suggest it as a rescue solution. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that on the day you adopt this law, I hear that you are already planning this week, will collect basic provisions of life -- bread, milk, oil, everything that is left for the poorest citizens of Serbia to survive, and I will remind you, ministers, that at this point in Serbia is starving about half a million citizens. They barely survive the days. The border between them and those who somehow still live is very small, and among those who live is a larger number of citizens, it is millions of people, who make ends meet and are very thin borders between hunger and poverty and the misery in which the rest of the citizens are. It's not your fault, Minister, it's the government's fault that in a year and a half she didn't take a single step to hire the unemployed, but she's been making a new budget for severance money and those who are doing something. The item in the budget is called, believe it or not, expenditure on purchasing financial assets to implement public policies. That's what 21 billion are supposed to be for. That's for about 50,000, 60,000 people who are going to be out of a job. Are you, Minister, talking to the citizens of Serbia or at least to the people who talk to them? I hear you've been preparing government measures in some secret place without being bothered by the public and away from real life. Of course, you needed peace and quiet, but you had to know before you knew what country we live in and what Ministry of Finance you run. Do you know, Minister, that when citizens go to the store, they buy one potato and one egg to survive that day? I witnessed the fact when the lady asked for 200 grams of bacon the cheapest, when the seller offered her 350 grams, she bent out of order without buying 350 grams of bacon. I don't think she should be ashamed of it and not be ashamed of it, it should be a shame for those who run a country where such citizens can't even buy a piece of bacon anymore. You have not offered any employment measures, Minister. Where is Minister Radulovic? He talked about the growth of small businesses, of employment. Of all that, you have put before us laws that offer an increase in VAT, which offer no chance for young people who finish colleges to get a job tomorrow. Mr. Krstic, are you here today to tell us that pensioners can expect to freeze their pensions for the next few years? I mean, you guys, with these laws, you're practically freezing. The move of pensions will be so minor that the price increase over the next two or three years will devalue their pensions by at least 7%, if the projected inflation is within the same framework as you say, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is not to be trusted. On the other hand, are you here today to tell us that the state is in such a state that the poorest citizens have to pay the price of such a condition, so, the poorest, these citizens who buy exactly bread, milk and yogurt to feed themselves and their family? Minister, are you here today to tell us that we don't need university professors anymore, that we don't need doctors, specialists, that we need solidly paid judges, not overpaid? If that weren't the case, Minister, you wouldn't be putting in the same basket of university professors and employees at the Parking Service. You have disabled the employment of young scientific workers by being a condition for someone to be accepted as an assistant, assistant professor, an extraordinary professor, a co-worker of the scientific institute, he must seek the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, that was not even during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, when the minister of education was Bozidar Markovic, and Finance Minister Stanko Švrljuga, neither at the time after World War II when the minister of education was Vladislav Ribnikar, nor the finance minister Sreten Zujovic, called Montenegro. Even then, the finance minister and the minister of education did not determine who would be admitted to college and who would teach the students what class. Today, in order for someone to start working at the university, consent has to be given to your Ministry or I don't know who, but who you're setting for it. Well, it's not in any country of the world, Minister, as far as I know. Well, you came from the West. You came from a developed country. Does the U.S. Department of State determine who's going to be a professor or an assistant at a college, on Yale, for example? Is that even imaginable to you? How could you propose such a law, Mr. Minister? You cut your salaries to doctors, you cut your salaries to judges, you cut your salaries to miners, you cut your salaries to teachers, you cut your salaries to all those of whom this country could live, and you could get out of the crisis. Let me tell you Ministers, in China and India, workers sometimes worked for a handful of rice, but they didn't destroy their education. They're all the money they had invested in their frame. To put it that way, they paid very little, as much as they needed to survive, but they didn't force their intelligence out of the country. You're doing it with these measures, Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister, you hereby punish all those institutions and all those local self-governments who were saving every penny and who only hired the ones they needed. You are putting into the same basket and those who received their party personnel, it was the Democratic Party, the Serbian Progressive Party, that you did not take as the basis for the employment cut when your government received a mandate from the people, but you hired all of your party colleagues who were unemployed. Here's a list here from a town in Serbia, a colleague mentioned it earlier, and then you cut it off - no more party employment. Then you put under the same basket both professors and workers who work at the Parking Service and all those who may have come along the party line. Minister, I don't think you've gotten a lot of negative grades in your life. That also shows the fact that you've reached the prestigious world university. I think this time you have a negative assessment of all Serbian citizens who have had the opportunity to see what these laws say. You have ministers negative assessment, and I think you should withdraw these laws, that you should take a good look, if you do not withdraw the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party and other opposition parties and admit that these laws were not written by you, that they were written by someone else who brought you to Serbia, otherwise we believe that you are not for this function you perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28712	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28713	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28714	I'm sorry, Mr. Babic, since it's a replica, there's a minister's word first.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28715	I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28716	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28717	Thank you. So I'm here because I'm here at the invitation of this government and because this government recognized that the situation was difficult. She recognized quite early in her term, as I would say, and this government gives full support and for these measures that are not in any way easy, which are being extorted and you're right when you say we won't save the country by increasing VAT, but unless we increase VAT unfortunately, we won't have anything to save. I'm just wondering, I don't want to judge, but how did we get there? Is that something you can do in a year or something that still takes a little bit more time? If you're asking me if I knew where I was coming from, I knew it was hard, but I couldn't fully see the situation because there were no numbers, there was no reality. You're criticizing now and you're saying: "Parking service" employees are the same as university professors. They are not the same, because employees at the Parking Service do not earn as much as university professors and on the other hand, we will enter that when we discuss this topic, but this is one call and these measures that we have introduced, which are partly extorted, of course, is one call for solidarity. I hope there's an understanding for that. And you know why? That's what you said yesterday. Because we are a unique country in the world, that we are brought to the brink and is not the intention of the Ministry of Education or of the Ministry of Finance or of this government to control who will be employed at the university, but is the intention of this government to prevent the country from being destroyed. In order for us to do this, we must as Government have control over how many people are employed, not who are employed, but how many people are employed and do it where necessary, where necessary in this situation. To buy ourselves enough time to see that those frames whoever brought them, you yourself said they shouldn't be in those places and not be in those places. At the end of this, I'm being transferred that I've hired my party colleagues, as you know, I don't have party colleagues, I'm not partying, and I don't understand it, and I don't understand one more thing. I'm not sure if I wrote the measurements or didn't write them, did I write them in a secret place, or didn't I write them in a secret place? Do I talk to citizens or don't I talk to citizens? On all these three items you've made contradictory statements, either in this, or in the previous few speeches, I mean your parliamentary club. I've taken the time, I think it's very important, and I'll always take the time to talk, I won't go and say I've talked to the citizens. I've spoken to you. I've spoken to the representatives of the citizens. We talked about this budget. There was also talk of measures. It was very public, not in any secret and hidden places. It is unprecedented what has been done, and that is that the entire government is in a session that was open to the public, decidently said two months ago from now which will be the measures, which will be these seventy members we are discussing today. You've known that for two months. I also buy at the store, I know how much it costs, I know how hard it is. Of course, it is not an easy heart to introduce and increase VAT and some of these other measures, but all these measures address areas where problems exist. I won't get into it when there are and why they exist, but I'll say this is the last moment to address them. The last moment to address them in a responsible way, what we've actually come up with, what we need to increase today, the least we're talking about, I'd say is the most responsible package of measures that, at this point, take into account the circumstances in which this government was brought out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28718	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28719	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, I respect the knowledge of Honorable counterpart Veselinovic that there was party employment both in the time and in the responsibility of the Democratic Party, there were also in the time of the Serbian Progressive Party, I cannot accept the sign of equality because of the time and period when all this happened cannot be a sign of equality between 12 years and one and a half years. There is no sign of equality between the people who used these mechanisms and between the people who said – yes, it is a problem in our society, yes, we want to put an end to that, by sending a bold political decision and members, but also to our society. I can't even put a sign of equality between governments, and we know that the government in the period between 2008 and 2012, and every concern of the representatives of that government about the number of unemployed, I will repeat again what are facts, what are not descriptions, which are not cheerleading views, but the fact that 400,000 people from the real sector were left without a job, that the unemployment rate with 13.2% went beyond 26%, that political responsibility, yes, was placed and given in the elections, but could not be forgotten. And can't people who had all the responsibility in leading the government and the country and who helped 400,000 people lose their jobs, now say – God, we care about you, why is this evil government, which is now the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why doesn't it hire you all of a sudden, they're extremely incompetent, why don't they hire you all at once? (Chairman: Time, Mr. Granny. ) What I say with certainty and great pride is that the trend in job loss and the trend in unemployment rates in Serbia has been halted, at 24.2%, 24.3%... (President: Time, time, Mr. Granny. )......................................................................................................... still too high and with that rate of unemployed, of course, that no one in Serbia can be satisfied and that we are really working on that rate being smaller and smaller from day to day, but guilt and responsibility from those who made it and designed it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28720	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28721	Minister, when I said I thought that I suspected you were writing these laws, I meant the fact that you would never, coming from such an orderly country, suggest some of the measures that I mentioned. And I can't believe you're the one who suggested the dean's going to seek the consent of the minister to receive a research associate or assistant to some department. It's inconceivable for modern democracies. That's one thing. The other thing, you did work, made these measures, apparently not seeing the situation in reality, and that's why I said it was pretty close to the truth that we got the information that you were working in one place that was isolated from the public. On the other hand, Minister, you were talking about the situation you found. You and I have been correspondence for the past month, i.e. I have asked a parliamentary question, and you have answered me very correctly within a reasonable time. I asked – is it true that this government is in debt as a bewitched during this period, and you replied that it is not true that as a bewitched one is in debt. You say this - there is no basis in your sentence, that the government has been in debt for the last few days as bewitched. In the end, you explained what you mean. You said the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is not, as I said, since the government took office five billion euros, but four billion euros. Since you are in charge of a new billion and 200m euros in the meantime, it is clear that you would now say that she is in debt as bewitched. On the other hand, Mr. Babici, here's the data. During the economic crisis... (President: Mr. Veselinović, take care of the weather. ) During the economic crisis in the EU, 10 million people were jobless. Unemployment rose from 6.7 to 12%. In Serbia, unemployment grew from 14.7% to 20% in the time of the economic crisis, so as much as in the EU countries, so that after leaving the crisis, after the recession... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... All countries began to increase employment, and our country, as the SNS came to power, to increase unemployment, so unemployment rose from 20% to 26.7%.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28722	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28723	I think your information is very bad, starting with a hidden place, and then others, since you say you have them. As for four billion, I have quite clearly explained what these four billion euros have been spent on. These four billion euros were spent at the start of the suspension, these four billion euros that my public debt administration, i.e. the Public Debt Administration in the finance ministry, answered you. So four billion euros were spent at the start of a machine that was at full speed to break down the ceilings. That's what we're going on right now. Two billion were spent on the budget deficit, 0.5 billion were spent on guarantees, that's where we stop, 0.3 billion, most of which were spent on banks, the largest part of which is the resolution of the bad business policy that was led in previous years. I am referring to the "Vojvodine Development Bank", Agrobank and the "Employment Bank of Belgrade" as well. It's the same thing we're getting in the way, and the rest of the money from about a billion is in the account at the National Bank of Serbia, like this billion we took two weeks ago. That's all I want to do to correct you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28724	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28725	Mr. Chairman, I will not wave some papers, because I will call on the citizens of Serbia to enter the National Bank of Serbia site, very public data, I will not make an obvious statement that the crisis has passed, I can see that Mr. Vesenovic is probably applying for a reward from the economy again, because he said the crisis was past in 2012 and that it was only during the period when Mr. Vesenovic was in power, because it was a reason, because it was an excuse for all the bad that was happening in Serbia. I won't talk, and I've never talked about any data that isn't anywhere, but clear data on the number of unemployed people, everyone can see them on the National Bank of Serbia site at any time. Four hundred thousand people lost their jobs during the former government, and that doesn't have to say a single site, says life in Serbia, that's what Serbian citizens say, and don't continue to insult those people, turning your head to the other side and transferring responsibility to someone else. You doubled the number of unemployed and now you have no excuse to ask through the fact that such a thing happened in the EU. I would love to, and I am sure that we will all try to bring into our society some much better values of the EU, not the number of unemployed and all that has come through much more orderly which have been through the crisis much better, because they have had adequate answers in time. We, unfortunately, have adequate answers only with this Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28726	Replica, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28727	Minister, when you were talking about the fact that we didn't understand the data correctly, I think that mathematics is more than clear and in your answer you write. So you're in charge of the new four billion. In the international market, meanwhile, you have applied for a new billion euros and at home for about 200m euros and have not paid back the previous debts. So the debt is not the same, 15 billion euros, but now it's over 20 billion euros, and with that money you didn't build anything. In the previous period, highways, bridges and many other infrastructure facilities were built. What, Mr. Krstic, has been built for the past year and a half, and that's not the end of some piece of road left over from the previous term, nine kilometers that's been officially opened. There's a big problem in borrowing Mr. Minister. Serbia is daily, if we read this, in debt. That's why I keep the paper in my hand. Someone might say I'm waving it. Serbia owes 97 euros per second, which is the one, Mr. Krstic the machine that chases into the break-in. No, like you said, 200 an hour. These are those fast-mad stripes that you're taking us to the break-in. What happens in another year if you stay in power, Mr. Baptizer?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28728	Please, everyone, let's get back to the subject now. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28729	I'll be brief, so we can finish this debate. I'm just going to ask a question - when is the Budgetary System Act a fiscal rule that Serbia must not owe more than 45% of GDP? Another question - when was this law broken compared to when it was adopted? That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28730	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28731	Dear Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, we support a set of proposed laws. We are all aware, and especially Serbian citizens, that we must cut sleeves and correct the consequences of someone's long-standing so-called. capable of allegedly responsible former authorities that have led the country to ruin. In my discussion, I will specifically focus on the draft tobacco law. I believe that the area of production and transport of tobacco and tobacco processing is not yet sufficiently arranged, so that this law is not necessarily brought forward, to support further upgrades, and all in order to provide adequate answers to the possible opening of the space for the operation of the holder of non-legal activities within the range of the production of excise products on the domestic market. I would like to say that up until a few years ago, tobacco in Serbia produced about 25 to 30 thousand family households, which means that tobacco production dealt with more than 50,000 people and provided more than 100,000 people from that tobacco production. Unfortunately, it's not like that anymore in Serbia. The production of tobacco has been reduced multiple times, and the companies involved in the production of tobacco products are mainly importing tobacco from Africa and South America. We all know that Serbia, by geographical and climate conditions, is ideal for the production of tobacco-type "oriental" which is highly sought as raw materials on the raw tobacco market for which there is permanent demand both in European and non-European countries. To make things worse, however, we have excellent conditions for producing this tobacco, but we import that kind of tobacco from Macedonia. When we talk about such a significant area of industry as tobacco treated as a strategic product, we must not lose sight of the fact that from 2001 to 2004, it was years with practically destroyed tobacco production due to the virosis disease that affected most of the tobacco so far, especially in southern Serbia, where practically most of the so far has been destroyed even in the flood. In this regard, I would like to point out that the proposed legislative solutions and how to support them, because by regulating the way tobacco seeds are imported and authorised to import tobacco seeds, conditions are created so as not to repeat the situation. Also, I have to say that in the previous period there were imports of seeds which were not followed by appropriate documentation and as such by tobacco companies were divided by agricultural producers, so the results of tobacco production were at least catastrophic. The peasants failed to produce tobacco and failed to comply with the tobacco production contracts, so that only their other credit obligations and ruined tobacco production after which many of them stopped doing this extremely profitable work. We are also aware that recently on the Serbian market, black market is selling a cut tobacco whose sale is causing damage to Serbia's budget and registered manufacturers of tobacco products and cut tobacco, but also to tobacco consumption. Such tobacco is often illegally imported into Serbia, has not passed any phytosanitary checks, no analysis of the quality of such tobacco has been made, nor has its origin, years of production been made, etc. These and such products can certainly affect consumer health impairment in a higher or lower degree, with inconspicuous, long-term consequences. It is important to know that the use of such products results in both acute and chronic mass diseases, and even cancers whose treatment is not only long and expensive, but is often fatal. The proposed amendments and additions to the tobacco law aim to adequately protect our country's interests, tobacco producers as well as consumers. Because the existence of a black market for these products is causing damage to all of us. The law also comes to the meeting of tobacco sellers on a small basis by simplifying the administrative procedure for obtaining a licence for the sale of tobacco products in such a way as to obtain certain data necessary for obtaining a licence, which can be obtained under official duty, to transfer it to the tobacco administration, thus significantly discharging the operations of tobacco retailers. It was also necessary to give wider powers to the phytosanitary inspector, which was done with this law and all in order to introduce order on the market. The positive side of this law is the prevention of illegal placing on the market of tobacco products that can easily be made available to minors. The justification for the adoption of this law also confirmed that, with the increase in the price of tobacco and tobacco products, uncontrollable free market tobacco traffic is also emerging and above all on open market centres and markets. I would like to say that since it is a product that is very important for our country's economy, and that excises collect significant revenues from the sale of tobacco products, the proposed legal solutions create an ambience to take a step forward in this extremely significant area with the hope that more agricultural producers will be identified in the future for the production of tobacco in order to ensure a better existence for themselves, but in order for the state and tobacco companies to obtain additional revenues by exporting tobacco. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28732	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28733	Dear Minister Margaret Thatcher, when she was taking measures, said - my measures are not based on some extra-serial economic theory, but on things that make me and millions of other adults. Fair work for an honest living, life according to the possibilities, saving for the black days, paying the bills on time. I think we should think about that and just go back to these basic things changing our citizens' minds about improving the economic situation. What has already been said many times today, perhaps I will only somehow sum up what the Fiscal Council said, while saving on salaries, pensions, and tax hikes can certainly not give the desired results unless we deal with credit and business, for example. "Serbigas", costs of interest which are twice as high as capital investments. We even have over 10% of the public debt in interest on undrawn loans, unless we deal with public enterprises reform, pension reform, banking sector reform, tax evasion, grey economy, non-discipline and tax amnesty. Also, you said several times that you expect to see employment growth in the coming period, primarily in the private sector, from which the public sector is being financed, and that you also expect that there will be some profit later in the same private sector. I would really like to hear from you right now what a improvement and, above all, when the improvement will bring an increased VAT that we are discussing today, the elimination of tax relief, which we are also talking about today, as well as the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with some two amendments. How much will this help to protect the grey economy, i.e. to protect the economy, to prevent the gray economy and to control this grey economy by the tax administration? Serbia as an investment destination is from 87 to 93, so we have big problems on the subject. I just want to know how and when are we going to get the results of all these reforms? For example, if we want to increase economic growth, to reduce unemployment, to have growth of domestic demand instead of domestic demand, these investors, people, businessmen have to come in some places. It's usually municipalities or cities, meaning some microlocations. In those places, they want to do something, invest, work. Now, in order to increase the revenue in the budget of these taxes, in order to have bigger taxes, to ensure economic growth, some citizens have to get a job, they have to employ buildings, they have to develop trade, etc., means that we have to develop some kind of production, etc. to build some buildings, back in those places. In order for that space to be infrastructured, so that they have a basic thing, at least a way, to have electricity, to have a plumbing, to have sewerage, to be able to function these businessmen, to have that economic growth again, to have more taxes, to have employment, to have an increase in funds in the budget, we have to have people and we have to have resources in those local self-governments to do so. People working on local self-government now come into one big problem, because perhaps in some local self-governments, which have some plans, which have development plans of course to improve and prevent the situation and crisis that happens in most places, for example. So they can do something and invest in certain development projects, they don't have people to do it with. In 2010, we had the adoption of the Law on the Maximum Number of Public Sector Employees, and only then did we limit that they could be admitted, I don't know four employees per 1,000 inhabitants. It did not look at the specificities and characteristics of certain local self-governments, not just the simple number of inhabitants, but how many residents or people are coming and staying there, which is what all these local self-governments are dealing with, etc. How are these local self-governments gonna work? Tell me, how are the local self-governments that are below the quota allowed to employ some of the other people they need? They need it, for example, under the law we have to have, local self-governments have to have a public procurement reference, they have to have a reference for combat and disability protection, they have to have a construction inspector, they have to have a matriarch, they have to have a local tax administration, they have to have a local tax administration, they have to have a local tax office. I'm really interested in the way you're gonna handle it. Do you know a member of the 190 Constitution who speaks of the jurisdiction of the municipalities? We really believe that this Employment Prohibition Act is, for example, in local self-governments countered because it really limits that local self-governments perform those actions that the Constitution obliges them to do. So they won't be able to do it. I wonder why you don't consider what we were talking about today, so I'm a rationalization system, not total ban? I think it is necessary for these local self-governments to remain citizens, so leave the municipalities and cities to the citizens, and the citizens themselves will tell whether the policy that local self-government is doing, whether it is good or not. What are the municipalities' managements chosen for? To be like decoration and some ficuses, so they don't ask themselves anything, that they don't do anything. Not exactly the opposite. So you have to give them the basic minimum frameworks in which they should move, and on the other hand you have to leave them to work on their own. If they have the means, let them hire. If someone doesn't receive salaries, then they should be punished and considered. Also in public enterprises. It just doesn't need to give subsidies, it needs to be limited, so all local self-governments are given how they commit, but also the right to decide for themselves what to do and how to do. We also advocate paying classes, so they don't have people who do the same jobs in different local self-governments and on different businesses, different salaries. Also, for a new way of classification of local self-governments and cities, so according to their particular personalities. As you know, there is no legal possibility that in local self-government, for example. workers who have been sitting there for years and who are old bureaucrats and who are not doing their job well enough must pay attention to this and to create one option of more flexible employment. As far as I know, the Ministry of Regional Development has prepared a draft law on employment in the provinces and local self-government, where the conditions of staff should be defined must be met for each job, and the Law on salaries of employees in local self-governments and provinces. That's a great idea. That's what we should do. The ministry of regional development and local self-government is a ministry to deal with. Which is why we are now in a position not to adopt these laws, because we are adopting these laws on restrictions without any thought whatsoever of what personality and specificity every local self-government, city, public enterprise has. So once we stop being a centralised state, when you're going to do something about decentralisation. You should know that in small areas, we will no longer be able to hire anyone else absolutely, these young professional people who need to replace those bureaucrats who have been sitting around for years doing almost nothing. Just say, is the government's goal now that we all move to Belgrade or Novi Sad? If it is, tell me that now all our people who are not busy out there in local self-government are not going to be able to get a job. It's nice to send people to Belgrade or Novi Sad. Not a day is a man, not a whole nation, as Thomas Jefferson said, can create debts that cannot be paid back for their lifetime. I really think, Mr. Krstic, that you should, no matter what you say, go out and talk to people, not people on the street, but representatives of municipalities, cities, public enterprises, etc. and that you should give solutions, not just behind doors somewhere that will directly concern those people who are in the field, meaning people in local self-government, management, director of public enterprises, etc. Let me tell you one more thing, not every Lazar can be Lazar Patch. But I honestly want you to be it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28734	Thank you. The next speaker, Mrs. Jelena Mijatovic. I'm sorry, the minister called again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28735	Thank you. I won't be long. You know, you've talked a lot about local self-government, that's all I want to talk to you about. It has been introduced, so the employment law, means that restrictions and employment in local self-government are currently in effect. I don't know exactly what years, it doesn't matter, a few years, it's not good, but it also wasn't good to transfer jurisdiction to local self-government when we're talking about tax and income collection. Just as it was relatively clumsy after that and about completely understandable, the abolition of its own income. The point is, we don't have, you're quoting the Constitution, and you're right there, but we don't have an adequate system, about what the obligations are, and what level of funding, and by what basis, they're getting local self-government, I'm referring to the collection of their own taxes. There are tax forms that I support, that we go towards them and that we rely more on them as a consolidated state, such as property, which essentially have to be harvested at a place, because you can't, from Belgrade or from Novi Sad, but not from Capco to collect property tax in Nis or Užica, Presevo, anywhere else. We have made it very clear, and our intention is that in the next six months, i.e. July 1st of the following year, we have a new law on funding local self-government, that we have a new law on the budget system, which will recognise reality and lead us to the programming budget, so that we can also see very transparently, what money in local self-government is spent on, who spends it, and which local self-governments should have more, how to pick it up and whether the state should help and to what extent is possible and, of course, the law on financing of the AP Vojvodina. My idea as someone who comes from Nis and who is in contact with reality and ordinary citizens is not in any way centralized in Belgrade or Novi Sad. On the contrary. But at the moment that we're in danger, we just have to stick together, and in a financial sense right now, it means that we have control, control, but at least transparency over where the funds go and what they're spent on, and then we have to do it properly, just like Margaret Thatcher used to say, to make a system. It can't be done overnight, but we need to make a system to know whose obligation it is and that someone alone will be responsible for those incomes that will make you pay. It's something that can't right now and doesn't work right, and that's why we have a situation where anyone, when we talk about public-communal enterprises that are at the bar, comes up with a state, republican budget, or tax administration, to find ways to solve systemic problems. This is, believe me, my biggest headache – how to establish responsibility and how to manage that responsibility, and that on the financial side means making a commitment just below the level of government, whether local self-government, or how to collect revenue for certain things, but also spending these revenues on commitments, not having a surplus while the republican budget has a deficit due to some of the moves that have been done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28736	Thank you. National MP Bojana Bozanic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28737	Thank you for your response, Your Honor. We were just, like the DSS Parliament Club, against all the measures we talked about, first of all, about the maximum number of public sector employees, but what we now have, at this point, you're talking about some measures of what's going to happen and what we're going to do in six months, but I'm wondering if now this law that we need to adopt means that a woman, for example, who goes to maternity leave, can't have a replacement in some kind of public enterprise, or in a local self-government, public procurement reference? So, are we gonna wait for that consent and how long? I work in one of the local self-government municipalities of Chatin, so for example, I am particularly interested in it. Does this mean that for a pensioner, or some natural outflow of people who die, they're older, etc., are we going to have to wait for some kind of consent, and what is it going to depend on? You know, so far it's all depended on political belongings. That's why I'm asking. I don't know if that's the way it's gonna be in the next period. As for the funds of local self-government, I certainly agree that there is a need to analyse the situation in local self-governments as well as in public enterprises. I think there's more spending in these state-owned public enterprises, and there's a leak all over the place, and if we could solve it, we might have more savings. But I agree that you should respect and that every local self-government should know what the funds are spent on. But it can't go straight either, which is what my colleagues were talking about today. So if some local self-governments have a plan to get out of the crisis, the development projects they're working on, they don't need to be cut to the root, they don't need to be put down, but they need eventually help to overcome the crisis. I think you owe me an answer to these questions – does that mean that we will ask for consent, will the children in one of the Goldenibor villages who have only one teacher, and there are four, five of them, sit in the classroom or go home, since their teacher is going to be pregnant or, God forbid, get sick and will they have the opportunity to replace, or will that consent come for what time period?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28738	He has the word Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28739	Given how the number of employees and criteria they have been employed has increased, I fully understand your fear that this will be done on the political line. It is very clear in this bill of law that we are discussing that the government will move closer to laying down the procedure and that the government's body will give consent to new employment. I can assure you that this procedure will not mean that we are looking at who the party is and that we are leading the human policy. It's not the idea of this law, and it's not proposed by the Ministry of Finance for the purpose of leading human policy at the level of the entire state, or the public sector at the level of the government, but to limit the total number, political membership there is not important, people who are being employed because it's something we've failed in the last 10 years. It's our intention and it's not politically colored, it's about numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28740	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Bojana Bozanic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28741	Just for a little while. So the government is based on the majority of the National Assembly, which consists of certain political parties in the ruling majority. "Government or some government authority," it says, and I really have to confirm that my fear that it will be because it was in the previous period. Minister, I can now take your word for it, because we have already made certain requirements for the reception of certain necessary or those references that must be in local self-governments that we do not have, and we have below the quota under this law on the maximum number of employees, so we will see if they will be on the political line. Because the opposition DSS party is in power in the Cheetah municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28742	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP Jelena Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28743	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, I will take a brief look at the law on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate income tax and to the income tax of citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party understands the importance of managing the tax situation of society both in the country and abroad. Corporate tax management requires careful planning, structuring and harmonisation of operations with legislation, taking into account the Law on corporate income tax, conditions for tax returns and regional, i.e. the international tax environment. With this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, we contribute to the achievement of two general objectives. The first is to increase the balance of profit tax in the context of a wider fiscal consolidation programme, while the second is to increase the efficiency of applying profit tax and improve business conditions through technical improvement of the law, reduce tax evasion space and align with international practice. The revenues from the company's profit tax in Serbia are around 1.3 gross social products, significantly lower than the average of 27 EU member states, as well as from Central and Eastern European countries. A lower balance of corporate tax is due to a low legal tax rate and the existence of a wide set of tax reliefs, which make an effective profit tax rate convincingly the lowest in Europe. Therefore, the increase in the balance of profit tax in Serbia, as the aim of the reform, is assessed as justified. The state's revenue increases under this tax will be achieved on the basis of the elimination of certain tax reliefs, as not introducing these changes would lead to growth of the fiscal deficit and public debt. It is estimated that by eliminating certain tax reliefs in 2014, i.e. erasing Article 48 of the new law will lead to a rise in revenue from this tax, but the growth will have an impact on the increase in budgets in Serbia only in 2015. Elimination of these incentives will help to eliminate the possibility of abuse of tax reliefs, as retaining these same reliefs is considered to be an unwarranted and expensive mechanism of attracting foreign direct investment, where the loss of state income on the basis of these incentives amounts to around 0.5 gross social product, i.e. About 15-20 billion dinars a year. Even some empirical analyses for other Central and Eastern European countries show that at low tax rates, tax incentives do not contribute to a significant inflow of foreign direct investment. The amendments specify the conditions for non-recognition of certain types of costs as a deduction of the tax base. In addition, this creates assumptions for the use of the tax administration's activity in controlling the application of transfer pricing rules, which should lead to a reduction of tax ejaculation in this domain. It is estimated that the amended laws aimed at technical improvement and alignment with international practice will not affect the level of tax revenues from profit tax in the following year, and that the effects on operating and investment conditions will generally be positive in 2015. It will have an impact on the level of profit tax advance which is normally paid in the next calendar year since the year when the profits came to pass. The amendments to the laws aimed at curbing the area of avoidance of this tax will affect the position of those enterprises which have so far used legal gaps to avoid the payment of income taxes legally or illegally. In this way, it affects the position of companies that have so far used legal gaps and other companies that have not done so, since after removing these legal gaps, their relative position will be corrected. However, as I said, including all fees paid for foreign services in the basis of tax collection would further narrow down the tax evasion area, which would not violate the conditions of business in Serbia, as companies coming from countries that generally have a signed double tax avoidance contract, which is almost all countries from which significant investments in Serbia come, would not be affected by these provisions. The 15 per cent profit tax rate in Serbia will continue to be 10 per cent lower than the average profit tax rate in the 27 EU member states, which I mentioned and lower than in most countries of the region, so that these changes in the law will not distort the country's tax competitiveness or its attractiveness as investment destinations. What I would say only briefly about the amendments and the addition of the Law on Income Tax, in fact, is one newspaper that is being introduced, which is an option given to entrepreneurs who pay taxes on actual income from self-employed activities, to opt for the payout of personal earnings. So far, entrepreneurs who make their income from independent activities have contributed, and thus also paid taxes, on the basis of real established income in tax returns submitted by the tax administration, and on the basis of which the Ministry of Finance and the relevant branches of the Tax Administration have made solutions. Here's a specific example. So if, on average, an entrepreneur achieved a profit tax of 200,000 dinars per month, it was therefore obliged, for example, to pay 95,600 dinars per month on behalf of taxes and contributions, which is almost 50% of the income achieved. If possibly an entrepreneur were to be defined as paying a personal salary of 50,000 dinars net or about 70,000 gross, he would be obliged to pay 32,360 dinars on behalf of taxes and contributions, thereby reducing his contribution base almost three times. If the entrepreneur has paid his profits and paid the prescribed obligations, the entrepreneur shall have the right to record the earnings paid and the obligations paid as a cost in the accounts, which is also recognised as a tax expenditure. In this way, the entrepreneur reduces the basis for taxing the income tax on self-employed activity. Also, by paying personal earnings, the entrepreneur does not abolish the obligation to pay the income tax on autonomous activity by establishing taxable profits, but paying off personal earnings, de facto reduces the taxation of profits and thus changes the optimal calculation of taxpayers' taxpayers. With this reduction, entrepreneurs can make savings possible to invest in hiring some new workers or opening some new plants, but in any case, it is good that the state is giving a choice that they will decide how to do it. Of course, the SNS will vote for a set of economic laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28744	Thank you, colleague. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28745	The Honorable Chairman, Prof. Popovic, Mr. Krstic, ladies and gentlemen, is the debate on the budget, with the debate on the choice and reconstruction of the government, the most important parliamentary debate and the most important debate we have in this high house. So I ask you, Mr. Krstic, to show yourself not as a son, but as a father for Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dacic, and to bring them here on Friday, when we discuss the budget, because we want to discuss the budget together in front of the Prime Minister and the real Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. Keep that in mind when you get here on Friday. So anyone who wants to criticise this budget, and the budget is shameful, must know that this is the fourth budget in two years. In democratically organised societies, each government votes four budgets and then falls, changes or dissipates elections. We've reached the fourth budget and it's obvious that it's time for the government to fall. We saw it yesterday when the ruling majority couldn't get the quorum together to start working. Of course, at the beginning of my presentation, I'll give you a very important message. Anyone who wants to criticise this budget, anyone who wants to present their social democratic definitions when it comes to this budget, let them prove their definitions by not voting for this budget, not by hitting their fists in the chest, swearing on their paroles about workers' rights and singing internationals. Those times are over and they're behind us. Gentlemen, your budget is in the rank of satire, because it is as if in the XXI century you have access to the most valuable experts in the field of medicine, and you, because of the disease, turn to the village doctor for help and then the village doctor tells you – I don't know the causes of the disease, I don't know how to cure you, I don't have therapy, but I'm telling you that you will surely die and I'm a good doctor because I'm telling you the truth. In doing so, the disease is being treated with success in the modern world. In addition, we have already passed her over for the mandate of the same people who today make up the government of the Republic of Serbia. So do not get carried away by the idea that you have shown us a great deal by telling us the truth. It is true that you are unable to solve economic problems and that the citizens of Serbia see it every day. What I have to tell you is, if you don't believe me, look what the government of Iceland did. Iceland is also in huge economic problems. Today, the Government of Iceland has reproduced methods and measures for economic recovery, where it says it will write off mortgage loans to citizens and release them from the obligation to pay taxes over three years. Learn better than yourself. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and above all, Serbian citizens, we vote this budget in dramatic circumstances, when one minister from this government came out to the public and said that one minister does not work in the interests of Serbian citizens and that abroad represents other and someone else's interests. Now you're asking us to give this minister a budget and give him taxpayers' money? Do you really think anywhere in the world after such a statement the Government would survive? You now want taxpayers' money for a minister who we don't know his name, who doesn't represent the interests of Serbian citizens in the world. Well, whose interests are she representing? Hashim Thaci? Should he be given taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia money? It's a shameful statement and it doesn't take Mr. Dacic to make justice that he can't read the Minister's thoughts. Well, let him read the diplomatic mail and let us know who that minister is who doesn't work in the interests of Serbian citizens so that we don't spill taxpayers' money here for someone else's interests. Of course, that same minister is just genius. She said a few days ago when she celebrated the five-year anniversary, which was so eliminated in that birthday atmosphere that she said that Serbian citizens would get everything they already have and what they got through other laws and that is the manner of this government, but she did not tell Serbian citizens that she would get what you did not promise, which is an increase in VAT on milk. That's the darkness. You increase VAT to milk, sugar, oil, basic life supplies, municipal services, computers, medicines and, most importantly, the first Vice-President of Prime Minister Vukic said these measures will not affect our pensioners at all. Well, it's common knowledge that pensioners don't buy drugs. Well, they don't have any communal service in their cost. They don't eat oil, sugar, they don't drink milk. It's just a job to hit our pensioners, so when you add to that the imports of genetically modified food and nickel research, so when you genetically modify our nation, it's the eternal drive of our people, then genetic mutants will vote for you at an even greater percentage. What about increasing the VAT on computers? The Internet and computers are the biggest opponents of every dictatorship, and therefore VAT needs to be increased, so that these means of technological communication are inaccessible to citizens. If you don't believe me, look at what your North Korean role models are doing. No Internet, no computers. It's an advanced success of the advanced government. Under your advanced authority, only prices advance. Serbia is moving forward and this is a very serious topic when we talk about the budget. Of course, every dictatorial Internet and computer regime sees as a major obstacle, but I have to ask you how will Serbia become a silicon valley with 20% VAT on computers? Who are you kidding? Why don't you wake up once? I'm asking you how are you going to do that? Why do you see Serbian citizens as a herd? You can cut sheep every spring, but you can only skin them once in your life and then the sheep are gone. You're not shepherds of this herd. You're just legitimately elected representatives of the people who need to lead this country forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28746	Mr. Milivoevich, the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28747	I'm sorry, I'm going on where I left off. What can I tell you about this employment ban for young people who finish college? Imagine someone who graduates from college, going back to Vrnjačka Banja, where does he get a job? Not in school, in primary, secondary, municipal, EPS, Post office, "Serbishum" home of health, kindergarten, militia. Where does that man get a job? What kind of message you send to those people who finish colleges, who go back to their places -- come back and you won't work anywhere for two years, and you won't even have the Internet to communicate with your peers to see how beautiful it is and how they suffer in the rotten west. What kind of solutions do you actually offer through a set of tax laws? These tax laws are actually abraca-dabraca and a hocus-pocus solution. Stros-Kan, Guzenbauer and all the others you mentioned as our saviors are actually only rabbits, drawn from the same magic hat that brought bread to three dinars, borders on Karlobag, hundreds of billions of foreign investments, a channel from Belgrade via Dragobuj, to Thessaloniki. You've begun your mandate with a scandal that could destabilise this country by lying about the election theft. You've continued the eavesdropping affair. You slipped on a banana. You've continued to have an affair with aflatoxin, and your mandate ends with a minister who says... (President: Theme. ) You end up in a sentence where one minister says that one minister does not work in the interests of Serbian citizens, and you are asking us to mandate and trust you to vote this budget. Why do you underestimate the intelligence of Serbian citizens with such sentences? We can't vote for a budget like that. What can I say about party fighters? You say you've cut your wages. Look at these salaries here. Says Dejan Djurdjevic 454,356 dinars. You weren't in Serbia, Mr. Krstic, to see how your party colleagues now passed out here. Still their knots haven't healed how much they hit their heads on the bench when they read their pay. They said, "When we come to power, we will put an end to it immediately." (President: Theme. That's the darkness. The topic is salaries and salaries that are limited and said to be limited, but will be limited to doctors and teachers, not to members of SNS boards. Their salaries will take place at astronomical speed in the universe, so that in Bajcetina, an observatory next to the church will be made, so that citizens can observe salaries through telescopes how many SNS members are, and we will look freely from all over Serbia with our eyes at the next elections. Finally, I have a question for you, Mr. Cross, have you ever heard of 330% inflation as an economic expert? You probably heard, there's that. Have you heard of an inflation of 563.330%? It's already hyperinflation. Have you heard of a country on a hilly Balkans that had a hyperinflation of 116 billion, 546 billion, 906 million, 563 thousand and 333 percent? You know what country that is? Serbia. You know who ran it then? Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, Jorvanka Tabaković and now on their behalf you propose a budget and you say – this will be better. Now we'll better run economic policy. Where's that colleague who just passed out here when she read that we left a budget deficit? You know what the budget deficit was then? It was 120%. In Japan, the Minister of Harikiri would have executed if he had such a budget deficit, and we the dead of the cold forgot it, came here to lecture the DS about how evil, bad and corrupt she is. Such a state was left for last term, with a budget deficit of 120% and with this hyperinflation that Professor Popovic, a professor or doctor, cannot explain to his students. No one can explain to normal people how the state survived, how it survived such hyperinflation. I'll finish with this. Recently, your coalition colleagues and partners cut down a 600-year-old oak oak. If I lived like that oak for 600 years, I might let you learn from me. Four years in a 600-year-old oak life isn't much. Unfortunately, my human life is much shorter and I cannot give you a mandate or a vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28748	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28749	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, dear colleagues, when a student at school misses the topic, he gets a unit and says - home. But when he misses the subject and goes home and says to his parents, he hates me there, the professor who gave me the unit, it's much bigger, much more dangerous. It's no problem that he got a unit from the Serbian language, the problem is he got a unit from history, because when hyperinflation was like that in the state of Serbia, in power and responsible for something like that were the people you were hugging, kissing, equating the victims, and then it was good because they needed, not now, we're going to attack them. We appreciate our political and collaborators and opponents, and I think we should cross the truth, not cross some things that have nothing to do with the truth. If you don't believe me, the internet in the National Assembly and in Serbia will work and work. Serbian citizens and live streams see what you do and in the hallway, and that's good. So connect, so check some information before you interpret it, because desire and fiction is one thing, and reality in Serbia is something else. When the Government of Iceland was mentioned, I would prefer that you said – why not apply something applied by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic? There's nothing. There's nothing to brag about. That 400,000 people were out of work? Give it up for that. Don't brag about other people's stuff. Let's boast about what's going on in Serbia. In the end, don't call elections so hard. Maybe we'll do it to you, so after that election, I'm sure when I travel to Belgrade, you'll wave at me from Kruševec.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28750	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28751	Where are you now, Branislav Nusic, so you can see that the SNS has joined in a single act "Subject face" and "Mrs. Minister"? The same Branislav Nusic wrote "Hajduke". There's a guy in Hajduki named Sima Gluvac. When the professor asks history, he doesn't know history, he answers biology. When he doesn't know biology, he's responding to geography. He was cured by professors of that old Serbian folk method. Read "Hyduke", it will benefit you in your life, but don't act like a hiduce when we vote on the budget and when you propose a budget. For you, I need to tell you a few things. When you reconstructed the government just a few months ago, we sent you some very specific messages. We told you it's not fair that those who took the country to the sun in the 1990s are now correcting the consequences of their disastrous policies. You told us that hate has taken hold of us and that we envy you because the people love you. After that, we told you that you could buy diplomas, but not know how to run the country, so you brought Mr. Krstic, Guzenbauer, Stros-Kahn and the others I was already talking about. Then we told you that the people who made the most economic and material destruction, territorial losses, along with the immeasurable human sacrifices and the suffering of our citizens, have no right to speak in such a way about the policy that has been remedied. You then told us that you were consterned, because the facts of the consequences of your disastrous policy were mostly terrifying to you. You had no argument about that. Now I'm telling you, when we talk about the budget, don't turn into the past. Take off the mirrors and just long lights and look forward to the lighthouse that we turned on in 1990, and it's called the European lighthouse. You've massively extinguished it with fire-breathing and spit. (President: Time.) () When you go that way, make sure that he does not become a stranger.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28752	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28753	I believe in the good part of your presentation you've been talking about yourself. I see your colleagues recognized you that way. As for who is what and how he was doing in Serbia, leading us in the light of the future, says a fact that is not for Nusic is more tragic. Mr. 17m euros is owed by public enterprises founded by the City of Belgrade, 17m euros are owed by public enterprises run by such bright people who have pushed public enterprises into a downfall, but on the other hand, it has been nothing against them having traffic since the moment Dragan Gilas became minister and mayor, a traffic of nearly 39 billion dinars. Is that the bright future general? No, it's not, 17 million euros, where, how, who's gonna pay for it, whose responsibility is it? Let's talk a little bit about these things, not the forms, and let me tell you again, if you're up for the election, let's go to the election in Vojvodina. If it's up to you to vote, we'll have elections in Belgrade, don't call the republican elections, maybe we'll do it to you and then you'll wave here, but on the other side of the screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28754	Thank you. I suggest we get back on the subject. The word has a People's MP, Mr Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28755	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why are you crying over the fate of 17 million debt in the public enterprises of Belgrade? That's where you also found the rabbits from the abra to the beaver hats. These candidates for the Nobel Prize for Economy will be finished in two days, in a moment of work, as well as with this snow that cleaned it up, but will also clean up the Belgrade City register with snow and the Belgrade citizens' wallets. It comes as collateral damage, power from the SNS. Speaking of economic parameters, do you know how much in a second the Republic of Serbia owes under your advanced authority? Is this how I'm supposed to put my fingers together to make you understand better? One hundred euros per second is due to the Republic of Serbia, 11m euros per day, which is a day and a half for the debt of Belgrade public enterprises. So, a day and a half you wind up turning what you're saying about the debt of Belgrade public enterprises. There are other winds blowing outside, Mr. Granny, which is why we call for elections, but they don't blow in your sails. You have to be aware of that. Your sails are torn apart and the ship has strayed from the European course and has long gone with a stramput. When I said that in Kruševec the other day, then your SNS leaders tell me – not our ship is sailing on that troubled sea, bravely, but we are very sick to tell you and we are not getting away with it. Serbian citizens are also sick and sickened when they hear that borrowing in Serbia is disastrous. You want me to read you the economic indicators of borrowing? The budget deficit of 7% of the gross social product is foreseen through this budget. Borrowing more than 5 billion euros. Do you know what 5 billion euros are compared to 17 million euros? Try to calculate this somehow with the profit of the “Profijler” agency in which Mr. Vukic has and what a significant share of action, and then you will see how far from us is the green branch and how far is green grass. It is therefore a scandal that we do not see an improvement in the position of Serbian citizens, either in 2014 or in 2015, if you remain in power until the end of your term safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28756	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Once again, I urge Mr Milivojevic and Mr Babic to complete this discussion and return to the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28757	Is Serbia in debt? To be in charge and yes, we're in charge of buffering all the craters left by the government to shut down and repay the debts made by the government. Who increased the public debt and how much did it increase, when you already have the data? How much did government debt increase? Now you're saying it's the responsibility of this government and now only in our case do we have to look ahead. Yes, as far as the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, of course we look forward to it, but for you whose head is still in the 1990s, and the body perhaps even earlier, we need to remind you of the things you have responsibility for. That it is fortunate that 17m euros is a debt to all public enterprises. It is the debt of public enterprises in Belgrade, only for electricity. What about the other debts? What about the prize coming to the former mayor of Belgrade for borrowing? Belgrade's clear task is 409m euros based solely on credit. Where are the suppliers' debts? The invoices come in every day. Trucks go in, hidden somewhere. Where are the debts of public enterprises? This time and that Nobel debt award, Dragan Gilas, will get gratis. He won't have to pay her, as he paid all the awards in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28758	I hope this is the end of our discussion on this issue. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28759	In the name of the MP's group, in replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28760	I asked to finish this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28761	We'll finish if you give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28762	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28763	In an attempt to end this, because it is pointless that DS MPs in communication with Minister Krstic try to point out the lack of proposed laws. We have been answered in an already recognizable proverbial manner by the SNS. As head of the parliamentary group, I say we will no longer participate in this. Not because our arguments are weak, they are superior, but in a situation with this noise, anger and truths that are always and exclusively to a man who is not present, there is indeed a loss of meaning of any conversation with the government's minister about something that has been brought and which should be in favour of the citizens of Serbia, but unfortunately there will be no. In the end I'll just say one more time, a thousand times to beg the advances, gentlemen half the term you're not the authorities, show us two things. What have you done so far and what will you do from now on? What are your concrete results, because we believe we have both argued and proved that they are not there, unfortunately the citizens of Serbia. No one should look forward to it alive. If each of your answers is bestial, untrue mentioning the name of Dragan Gilas in every situation is the only answer for this Serbia that you are leading today in a disastrous way... You've got the temporary council of the people you've proposed, you haven't been able to catch any advances, so you brought them on the side. Sinisa Mali is a man who is on two boards, "The Commercial Bank", "Clinic Centre of Serbia", where miracles are supplied with drugs, the man does not receive salary at the Interim Council. He doesn't need a salary, he doesn't need a salary. That's your effect. Not to talk about what you're doing in Serbia, not to talk about what kind of ruins you left behind in a year and a half. You have the nerve to stand up and talk here. About what? Debts. Don't let us take out the Krushevac and Vranjska bath here now. I won't because I'm ashamed that the citizens are still listening to this horror that you're spreading. Don't you, Mr. Granny, talk about debts, who I pray to you for. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28764	Mr. Babie, I'll give you my word, and I'm asking you to finish this discussion with this. It's time to take a break, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28765	Mr. Chairman, whether there will be replicas or there will be no replicas depends on me. It depends on those blinded by hatred for the SNS and for Alexander Vukic, who in any way and at any time use the assembly pay phone to unearth that hatred, but it's like a boomerang somewhere around Nemanja's street rolling, so it comes back and ends up on the head of the one who repels that hatred. We didn't get an answer from who made it and who was responsible for 17m euros in public enterprises' debt, based solely on electricity. We didn't get an answer, and then when that question was asked in a television studio directly, how does a poor person, while the economy is stalling, as economic activity decreases, someone earns 38.39 billion dinars? These are the things that are public, that are on the APR site, but we don't get that. We don't win. We get hate, we get threats, we get insults that we don't need to talk, we need to move, that Serbia is just the grandfather of one political option. For what? Is that democracy, is that the right path to our society? Is hate something to guide us? Of course I don't think so, but on the answers - we didn't get the answers, we only got a new hatred for all the people who represent this country and this city.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28766	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Stefanovic, I'm going to give you my word on the Rules of Procedure now and I would like to appeal that we end this. Mr. Granny, please, too. Of course, I understand everything, but in any case, we need to make time for a break, so I'll give you my word to Mr. Stefanovic, if Mr. Babic calls again, I'll give it to him, and after that, I'll announce the break. Once again, I would like to ask both Mr. Stefanovic and Mr. Babic to return to the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28767	Article 107. So, two things I want to say. First of all, you are obliged to close the circle of replicas, and in this sense Mr Babic has now presented and violated the dignity of the National Assembly because he said that we have hated SNS and Alexander Vukic and that we threaten. I think you had to react because DS didn't have any hatred, let alone threats. This is what Mr. Vukic says – Mr. Babic's auto-projection. Since he talks about genocide, then yellow crosses at the door of Voždovec, then he is a man, when faced with issues related to the budget, and then for completely inexplicable reasons, when we talk to Minister Krstic, he stands up and attacks Dragan Gilas and DS. They explained it to him in the profiler, where they make 40 times as much as before they came to power. But you as chairman don't let anyone here claim that we spread hatred for them and broadcast hate. We absolutely don't hate anyone from SNS. We're a party that makes arguments, and you have to act. If they don't like the arguments, let them make counter arguments. They can say what you're saying is false, what you say is not true, is not long. Otherwise, they tell the truth every day that 400,000 were fired, 200,000 were fired and none of them from the state structure, and they will fire now from 50,000 to 100,000 new ones, for the first time by the state. Do you understand what political camouflage is? The advancers want to hide Minister Krstic from the truth, they want to hide him from the opposition and then Mr. Babic gets up, breathes heavy air and screams – the thieves, in Dragan Djilas. That block joke won't go away in Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28768	Thank you. Mr. Granny, I give you my word, it's my prerogative, and this is what I'm going to close. Please support me in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28769	This hall is very acoustic and something that is said here a very strange echo comes from another side, so someone else hears and interprets. Whoever glued the crosses to the Yellow Leader, he has promoted them now in the National Assembly and it is saddening and it is dangerous. You can't say – it's a black campaign and that's enough. It's a dangerous phenomenon. As well as my distinguished colleague Maria Obradovic the other day, I am now asking the competent state authorities to discover the perpetrators, to discover who planted another seed of hatred in our society and in a small and beautiful environment, such as the Voždovac municipality. On the other hand, again, and even one replica of two minutes or a breach of the Rules of Procedure couldn't have gone by without a vote of hatred for Alexander Vukic and do it still, it seems to you in genes, it's in your political response. But what was my answer, without wanting to justify myself, wasn't discussed here about the budget, the budget wasn't a topic today, and all the time it was a speech about the budget of the previous speaker, and what are we going to do about it? What are we going to do with that replacement thesis? On the other hand, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic does not own any company and that any company has as many times more traffic, there is no traffic of 38 billion dinars, as she had, according to the APR, only one company of Mr. Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28770	Thank you. I got an announcement from the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stefanovic, as I said, will be after the break. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break, and we're working on it at 1600 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28771	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Next reported is Biljana Ilic Stosic. Are you reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic? Mr. Stefanovic, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28772	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I tried to get back to you, so it's article 107. I tried to call earlier, but the session was interrupted. That's why I'm picking up now. I'm sorry you weren't there, I'm sure you'd react. In fact, Mr. Babic said in his presentation one thing that is very dangerous. I'm sorry that somewhere I think maybe he didn't understand it, and he didn't mean what he said. He said that Democrats are genetically predetermined to hate. Since saying someone is genetically predetermined to hate, it's not just an insult, it's a reaffirmation of eugenic theory. In order for citizens to understand what this is all about, it's a racial theory. Please, let me explain. [[President: Please, you are now turning into a replica, to what Zoran Babic said.]] A 107th member is offended by the Serbian Parliament, as one parliamentary group has been told of a political party that it is genetically not correct and in line with the environment in which it lives. It is, unfortunately, a continuation of unacceptable trend, a lack of understanding of what is being said by Mr Babic. He thus put all Democrats in a plane of those who are genetically not correct. Eugenika, unfortunately, is a science that speaks of better and bad genes, so that citizens understand what we're talking about. According to Mr Babic, who injured not only DS, but also Serbian citizens who voted for DS and insulted the Serbian Parliament and your predecessor in that place did not react and injured Article 107. So, inadmissible behavior for a political group is to say that genetically there is a genetic code that hates someone. It's a serious insult, it's a start and a cover of racist theory. It's something that's inadmissible in this assembly. There are representatives of minorities here who first had to tell their head of Parliament -- sorry, when you talk about genes and counting genetic structure, you have to take care of what you're saying. I end, we demand that Mr. Zoran Babic apologize publicly for what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28773	By Businessman Marko Milutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28774	I believe he's a injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly for the simple reason that you, Mr. President, are not of course your guilt here at the planned time at 4:00 p.m. when the session was due to continue, informed that the planned follow-up would be at 1700 hours, since the minister was prevented because he attends the Serbian Government's session. It's 5:15 p.m., which is less important. If we don't start respecting the institution in this country ourselves. If we do not start to respect the Republika Srpska Assembly as the highest legislative body in this country that has also chosen the same government, and this respect dates, primarily from the inside, that is, our inner relationship as we treat ourselves at the National Assembly sessions. If I may add, you have noticed that the DSS parliamentary group is solely holding the agenda, exclusively participating in the debates given the time available and, of course, in the replicas with the minister. We don't use time in replicas or in the Rules of Procedure to fight politically even though we could do it and how we could do it. On the other hand, it is very important for citizens to have perception and respect for the National Assembly, that other state authorities too have that respect. Never can a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia be subordinated to holding a session of the national parliament and there is no excuse for the minister's presence. The sitting could have been attended by the Secretary of State unless there was a vote within the government itself. So I think it is unacceptable to postpone the work of the National Assembly for an hour for the simple reason that the session of the Republic Government takes place. As Members of the People, this Assembly should not be interested at all. So it's the minister's duty to show up especially when things are this important on the agenda, such important financial laws, what's going on in the budget. I just want to appeal to all the members of the government, to all the other proposings who come to this esteemed home to be treated with more respect to the National Assembly, to the MPs. I personally do not participate in the debate today, but also how I like to hear what is going to be discussed here and I also appeal to the President of the National Assembly, whose fault is not this time, but also how it affects all the other ministers of the government to stick to the time and participation in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28775	Of course you're right that the National Assembly has never been or will be subordinated to the government, which is completely natural. However, my assessment was, since the government discussed amendments that were submitted to the opinion on amendments to the budget, that it was important for Minister Krstic to attend, so that someone relevant might say whether some of the amendments submitted by the MPs were also discussed at the cabinet's session on what was proposed by the National Assembly. Whether any of these amendments have been accepted or not, and this seems to be a better law, i.e. the budget that will be before us. The minister apologized to me, apologized to the National Assembly for the delay, and I decided to postpone in an hour. He arrived earlier, but there was no room for the session to continue, because you know our rules not to continue the session until the minister is here. Only for that reason do I appreciate your understanding and we didn't continue at 4:00, but at 5:00. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28776	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107, violation of the Parliament's dignity. I believe that even the presentation of MPs and MP groups of DS was not appropriate at this time, nor of what stands as a fact and relating to a particular terminology that is not appropriate to this assembly. Please do not allow such an exposure anymore because this leads to simply large reactions by the MPs from our parliamentary group. First of all, because such facts stand and serve the day-to-day political situation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I ask you to move on to the agenda and to the laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28777	The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28778	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will talk about the Law on the reduction of net income to public sector employees. The first thing I have to notice about the bill is that the bill is quite explicit and clear. The promoter spared us the fascination with his expertise, and on the other hand he removed any suspicion of any hidden intentions that could arise from the practical application of the law. The bill did not leave anything, nor did it add anything compared to what was announced and presented to the public several weeks ago. The reaction to the announced measure's proposal was quite conflicting. Some felt that it was only scratched on the surface and that the measures were supposed to be more radical, and others were moaning over the fate of the bearers of the most paid functions that were reportedly wronged again. All of it, Minister Krstic says it is about mild cuts that are necessary in order to avoid harsh ones. What it would look like to remember Argentina or to look at Greece and figure out if something is not done right now and right now, disaster is our tomorrow, not our far future. Why weren't these measures taken in time? The right moment was when the great global economic crisis began. The answer is, they didn't have the guts and they shouldn't have. The former government chose to systematically push problems under the carpet, so as not to get their chair, or throne from which they were tabled, burning and burning. And now that some other government, different from them, wants to start the transport of toxins, the terrible products of their expertise and well-meaning, they hold a letter about everything and everything, and also about the management of finance. As if this government invented party employment and the accumulation of officials by local self-government. My Kragujevac says city administration officers are coming to work as early as possible to grab a chair for that day. At tables, though, they are not kidnapped because objectively on the number of employees most of them have nothing to do. It's similar in public enterprises, but they're already well-known to all the sad stories. It is now expected from the authorities that the magic wand will significantly change the state of the country, but if it is possible to remain the same, at least to those to whom it is good or fair, less bad than others. That's why something has to start. The burden of crisis, and especially its overcomings, should first be borne by those who would be at least endangered by restrictive measures, certainly not existentially. It's fair and just and in front of God and in front of men, and it's dignified. If university professors, doctors, judges and senior civil servants are, and are, the most respected professions in society, then let them be worthy of their reputation and prestige. Social elites by definition must have the highest degree of responsibility as well as respect, as well as the ability to understand the social moment and to set themselves up according to it, because otherwise they will have no one to treat, nor anyone to teach, nor anything else. Elitism is not only measured at the height of the month's contributions but also above all, by the responsibility of the community in which they were born, who trained them and who they chose to live in one way or another. The delay in solving problems would create a deep conflict-sharing community from our country where conflicts are at risk of escalating into a state that will not be possible to control the institutions. It's just that tomorrow, it might happen to us that getting out of a supermerket with bags full of groceries becomes a simple adventure, a hell of an orange syndrome, I'm afraid it's closer to the German than it seems because in reality it's twisted through expensive curtains on the bars or through the blinded glass of expensive cars. From the impeachment of the opposition, which in fact is investing in selected target groups ahead of the future election that the Kobajags seek, and God begs not to be, it is a much more important question of what should be done to eliminate a catch in ordered professions and to clearly distinguish between good and bad professors, good and bad doctors, good and bad judges, good and bad officials. Not to mention a series of measures that we are about to address laws that will eliminate the harsh fact that wages are in the private sector for a whole third less than in public. If it continues like this, we could hypothetically wake up one morning in a country where everyone's hung up on a budget that's being charged exclusively from expensive foreign loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28779	MP Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28780	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a set of eleven legislative proposals aimed at ensuring economic and financial stability, stopping public debt growth, creating conditions for economic growth, especially if we know that public debt has doubled since 2008. The main challenge facing the Republic of Serbia is relatively weak economic growth, a high unemployment rate, as well as a high budget deficit. The government's fiscal strategy measures give hope and a basis for optimism in creating macroeconomic stability, creating a basis for sustainable growth. On that the other day, I think yesterday and something positive was said by the International Monetary Fund representative in the Republic of Serbia. We are aware that the proposed measures are neither popular nor ideal, but if for some years, I can say for a decade he's dragged his head into the sand, avoided solving the accumulated problems in public finances, squandered huge loans and donations, destroying privatisation in part proved that the theory that capital does not disappear is already changing form and owner through a privatisation where we've lost our business, no jobs, no business, and what's the worst money out of that, called privatisations that were meant to create a new value, to invest in production, to speed up the creation of new jobs and not to list more. Then it's no wonder the time has come to pay the accumulated bills, draw the lines and turn the new page into financing the state. If in recent years there had been less thought about buying social peace and personal wealth for individuals, spending money on loans and donations for salaries and pensions, but investing in production, today no one would have proposed a set of laws, which primarily makes it an attempt for our country to change the Greek script both exhausted and poored. Finally published data that 740,000 workers do not say everything in the public sector. In my King's total of 24,000 employees, 18,000 works in the public sector don't say the same thing. Let us ask a question – where and from what real resources are money being provided for the payment of salaries to us who do not generate income and what is the difference in the incomes of public sector employees and production workers, at the expense of these others? One of the answers is in the proposed solidarity tax for all receipts above 60, or 100,000 dinars. It's malignant to shed tears over those who need to bear part of the burden of this transition that really takes too long and too long with us, through a solid tax, with those who have long carried the burden on their backs and live with receipts of 16, 20 or 30,000 dinars. For the first time, reality is shown, what is the deficit and this time leading to a reduction in public debt. Many critics say these are only short-term measures, too mild, that will not give the expected results. Unfortunately, they had time to apply much stricter, more rigid measures or those that had just been proposed, if they had applied them, we wouldn't even be talking about this set of laws today. That is why this is a minimum of the necessary measures, precisely for the reason that the proposed measures are socially responsible. Among other things, the aim of these measures is to curb the grey economy, technical changes to individual reform laws, tighten criminal policy, curb illegal trade in excise goods, above all, tobacco. This is a small but very important step, a bit painful, but a step that will deliver results and therefore the SNS in the voting day will vote as a responsible party for this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28781	The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28782	Dear President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, although it is quite said about this law, and I would say very briefly that these are proposed linear measures, which in fact lead to great inequality in life, and even in some part can lead to discrimination. When we talk about the increase, I wouldn't say that, and the harmonisation of wages and pensions, I would say about the correction, because realistically looking, 0.5 from the lowest salary and pensions, is not a hundred dinars, so there's no harmonisation, there's no increase, there's only one correction. In a package with an increase in VAT to the most basic provisions of life, heating, medicines, municipal services, the next year for construction will be very difficult, especially for those who have the lowest incomes. Especially what I'd like to draw your attention to is, and at the same time I'm going to ask a few questions, it's about a ban on employment, and for some it's a ban, and for some who are closer to the ministries, which will get to the government's working body faster, it's just a little bit more paper. Why do I think it's for some total employment ban? Not only do new jobs, but also empty jobs that are necessary in some collectives, and without which there are no basic activities, I'm talking about hospital specialists, I'm talking about professionals that can't be without them, just one government body, and so much of the width of the institutions that are supposed to address this body, someone will never come in two years in a row and they won't be able to solve themselves. We know that most of our work contracts have a 15-day notice. I want to see, and until I see the rulebook, I can't talk about it, but I want to see what time this government body will be able to respond to everyone, so it doesn't stop some action. On the other hand, this measure will not apply equally to all. We were saying here, my colleagues mentioned young people, yes, it would be a difficult condition for young people to stay in the country, that young people, like you ministers, would return to the country, to return. I'd point out some other categories, who's going to be more damaged to this extent? Women. Why women? If we exception and that's the discriminatory position of this provision, why women? Except for the military and the police, we know that in the public sector, women work the most. At the same time, we know that women are in a worse position in the labour market. With this measure, linear, women will be, normally, that category, which will continue to be more difficult to employ. The next face category is harder to employ. Why? I expect and we all expect that exactly the state, social and labour responsibility for employment. Consider, too, the fact that it was withdrawn from the Social Entrepreneurship Act in September, which was just intended for the employment of this category. We will not expect the private sector to have greater social responsibility in employment than the state, and this will lead to an even greater inequality of these labour market categories. What else I'd like to point to. This is the next provision, in which the restriction of every engagement on any basis, I really can't get out of here from such an imprecise provision that I know what they're all about, so I ask you – does that apply to volunteers? What happens to volunteers in courts? What happens to our contracts with universities where we have students, doctors, graduates at volunteering? Are we going to end a working relationship with everyone on December 31st? I'm telling you that there are small collectives, which are very proactive, that don't have 10 employees. So they can't conclude a single contract, because man isn't a percentage. So, up to 10 workers, there's not one contract that you can hire, up to 20 means one, one. If so, I ask you, what about the people who are engaged in international projects? The implementation of IPA projects with Hungary, Croatia, etc. is under way. Is the suspension of engagement with December 31st the right measure and what does that mean as the ultimate co-existence for this project that has been approved and is under way? Are we going to be able to leave all our rights on the basis of that project? We signed a contract and we have these obligations. I'd say about the tax only that first we need to create taxpayers, which we don't, all kinds of moves, but I'll say it more according to the amendments, actually takes us back to the black market. Unfortunately, the previous measure didn't only give positive negatives... When it comes to tax increases, this measure will bring additional negative consequences. In the end, I'd only say one sentence. At least I'd say, since you used that word today, it's not fair, that it's not fair to change the Return Act for one more year, and I'm afraid if we keep doing that, we'll change it every year for another year and just extend the agony of those people and injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28783	The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28784	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, unfortunately today we had a little longer session of the Finance Committee, so I failed to send out the presentations of my colleagues. But yesterday, with special attention, I watched the presentation, or listened to the presentations of representatives of parliamentary groups, and, as the minister himself said, there was more of a talk, let's just say, one overtures to the budget than the set of the law itself. I believe that Mr Krstic, as a young man, a young minister, would be the happiest man to talk to me today about some measures: a reduction in VAT, a small number of public administration employees, an increase in pensions by 10 to 15%, however, these are all extorted due to poor business in the past. I don't want to use words that would hurt someone. But yesterday, one of the previous finance ministers from the beginning of the 21st century said that after 2000 it was the hardest and that it was the most worked. It's probably true. However, we in Piroth have a beautiful saying, which says – and the mole does a lot of work, but it does damage. There's been a lot of work, but there's a lot of damage done, and especially bad privatisations. Today we have a situation where we have more than 150 enterprises in restructuring, and this problem has not been dealt with seriously. We had a concept in 2008 when the global economic crisis began. Also, one of our minister's predecessors said with enthusiasm that in fact the global economic crisis would be a chance for Serbia, that Serbia from the crisis would have the highest benefits. However, what was contrary to it was the collapse of jobs, so to speak. More than 100,000 people are out of work. It was said yesterday that the suspension, or reduction of subsidies, without them could not create new jobs. We've had these subsidies in the last five years, so we've run out of several hundred thousand jobs. What I'd like to ask the finance minister, and I think that's the mission of the entire government, is to seriously deal with the gray economy, because we're talking more about it, and we're doing less. If you look at the National Bank's data, accounts in banks, or citizens' deposits are somewhere more than eight billion euros. Minister Ljajic said yesterday that Serbia's market is worth more than 70 billion euros. If we have that percentage of the grey economy, I guess a few billion euros is spinning on our market in the gray zone. If, Mr. Minister, we could succeed, not root out, but reduce that grey economy to some normal measures, like Western countries, I don't think we'd have any more problems with the deficit in the budget. If they came up with some projects where citizens would instead of opening accounts in banks and getting some interest, invest that money in some real projects. I would take the opportunity to say that we will, of course, support this set of laws, that I wish you, Mr. Minister, happiness in work and head upstairs, endure and some bad discussions may have affected you to demoralize you, but don't, you're on the right track and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28785	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28786	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the other night in the television diary, I hear a reporter saying our new finance minister, Mr. Lazar Krstic, is quickly familiar with the political situation and is skillfully in the process. I think he's shown it in these two days. I think it would be better for the minister to get better acquainted with the financial and economic situation and get better at it. It also seems to me that this package of laws and budgets, which is yet to be discussed, gives us at least some encouraging economic measures, and most of all resembles criminal measures for the citizens of Serbia. What other than criminal measures, increase taxes, reduce wages, prohibit employment, delay restitution, etc. There's one more thing, you're saying it's real. According to the minister, representatives of the ruling coalition also say. Is it really still this much debt? Is it real? As the minister said yesterday, what difference does 100 million have to do with the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank? Are some other things real? No, they're not. It seems important that instead of flies and mosquitoes now fly a new Eirbas used plane, they say, soon the entire fleet. How much does that cost Serbia? Who dares ask? What does it say in that contract with Etyhad? Are we ever gonna find out? Looks like we couldn't even get a glimpse of that blackout, like in those secret files. About those billions of investments and capital investments we can, I guess, just dream. They hook us up when we wake up. In this congregation, it is as if one custom were somehow established, that instead of new and systemic laws, existing laws were passed. On several occasions, MPs mentioned, in 2009, we passed two laws on the maximum number of employees. One in the Republic administration, the other in local self-government. I have to say, this one in the Republic administration was far more rational, so I'd say more humane. He referred to what is called bureaucracy in the colloquial dictionary. In this Bill on the Budgetary System, it refers to everything, not only this Republic bureaucracy, but also to teachers, teachers, teachers, artists. In the Law on Local Self-Government, just on the subject of the adoption of the same, already existing laws, in the Law on the Maximum Number of Employees in Local Self-Government in Article 3, please follow, Bill on the Budgetary System, Article 1, paragraph 38, and you will see that it is exactly the same, the total number of employees for a certain time because of the increased number of persons employed under the contract of work, the contract on temporary and occasional transactions, through the youth and student cooperatives, persons engaged on other grounds, cannot be greater than 10% of the number of employees at an indefinite time in the local administration, paragraph 1, paragraph 3 of Article 1 of this Article does not apply to institutions in the field of culture. So whoever followed the draft law on the budgetary system, it appears that this is the exact same text, except for this last attitude, does not apply to cultural institutions. With this budget system law, we do not exempt cultural institutions from the obligation to employ only up to 10% of people on contracts and other grounds compared to the total number of employees. I would very much like to see the performance of a bill like this made by the former director of the Belgrade Philharmonic, Mr. Ivan Tasovac, if he could find out that he can engage in different contracts only 9.6 artists and only artists, not others. The Philharmonic has 96 employees. He has fulfilled that quota in a month, four conductors and five soloists, and no more. What's he supposed to do now? To write to the Minister in charge. In doing so, it is not certain whether he has supplied these conductors and these soloists under the Public Procurement Act. He now wonders whether to write first to the Director of Public Procurement, to approve the procedure with guessing, restrictive or whatever procedure, that he can hire conductors and soloists or write to the competent minister, to grant him that he can engage over a 10% quota of the total number of employees. He's got to write to one and the other, and then he's waiting, so it's eight, 15 days, the second month, Philharmonic's gotta have concerts, he's gotta have regular programs. Then he has to write a new letter, screw dishes, green pine, wait for a quick answer to the office for quick answers. I see this office will not be subject to these laws. It was planned for 54 million and 800 and some thousands, of which 40 for wages. So there's going to be new employment in it. It's all in terms of saving, rationalizing and reducing the administration. Then this office for quick answers to the sea, because it must all be procedurally fine, writes to the competent minister – why did you not approve these over 10% of the total number of employees? They are the ones who answer. How can we not achieve, not catch the evils, but we have much to do. We'll ask you to grant us new employees, too, because we can't make it in time to respond to so many demands for new employment. This Franc Kafka was not yet born to describe our process, or procedure, and all for the purpose of reform, discipline, control and savings. What a culture, this is a dictatorship. Don't be silly. That's not what I meant. I meant the dictatorship of bureaucracy. So, down with bureaucracy, lived culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28787	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28788	I just have a few things to say. No one here is unreasonable and wants to end culture, Philharmonic or anything else. As you know, to go back to what you said, in 2009, there is already this law regarding local self-government and state administration. Maybe in 2009, and it was enough to limit ourselves to just that part, which is only about 20 percent, and I mean significantly less than the total number of public sector employees. Now we have no choice but to limit ourselves, to take the whole public sector and apply the same idea. Right now, you know this well, it is the Ministry of Finance that grants approval for new employment at local level, or local self-government. On the other hand, it's not a problem to hire someone for a show or to hire artists for culture. No one's gonna stand in the way of that. It will be defined by a regulation, an act of government that is being discussed here in that same article of the law. The idea is that, when we had this phenomenon, and that's going to show the register, we actually looked at it, we had this phenomenon that culture institutions were excluded as part of a system at a level, let's say, of local self-government where people can be employed. You've had a build-up of people who've been hired temporarily, occasionally, or at a certain place in the institutions of culture, and so now you have these anomalies that we want not to do again, because we want to have centralised control over what's going on. It's not a repressive measure, nor a dictatorship of bureaucracy. It's basically the only thing we can have, which is a reasonable and finally organized list of employees and a list of needs in the state administration. This is a transitional solution. That's two years. I hope that it will not have to be applied so long as the situation is not seen and together with the relevant ministries and relevant bodies and institutions to come to what is a realistic and sustainable number of employees where they are employed on a political line and without foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28789	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28790	Mr. Minister, as was the case with the Public Procurement Act and this time you repeat the fact that cultural institutions will have to ask someone to get consent, that you will bring the regulation, some act, etc. In the end, you said one thing - we want to have control. That's basically the goal of having control. It's incorrect that you said that in culture institutions people were accumulated on contracts and on other grounds, not on the basis of permanent employment. Maybe you were just thinking of the National Theatre. Otherwise, in institutions the founders of local self-government at the end of 2009, a large number of people were fired precisely to respect the law on the maximum number of employees in local self-government, because the penalty for this was to reduce transfers. I ask you the same thing. What punishment will you use now? These coins that you predict by this law or those that stand in these two laws, or in this maximum number law, since they predict a reduction in transfers? There's some law you need to break. They can't be both. Don't tell the truth. It is not true that contracts and contracted people were accumulated in cultural institutions, because you should also know very well, if they didn't tell you, the cultural budgets from which those contracted have been funded, have been reduced and dropped year by year. The only institution that hired over and over was the National Theatre. A parliamentary question was asked the other day, and we'll see what the answer will be. I'm telling you, in a year, at least 80 new employees. We have another fact, Serbia has a huge number of independent artists. These independent artists, the only way they're engaged are contracts, authorial contracts, occasional, temporary jobs. Are we going to leave them without being able to work anywhere, make any money? (President: Time. ) Do not say what is not true and do not insult people from culture and transfer to them the burden of excessive employment on the party line. Let me tell you, other than hiring in the administration and technical service, that line is not working in art, because it will always show that only one who has talent can do art work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28791	Time. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28792	Thank you. Dear gentlemen, the Budget Law and the regulations that follow the adoption of the Budget Law are always for all political parties and at the end of each year a couple of excellencies of topics. I think we've been in one of the more complex years in the last 20 years, if we keep mentioning this collection. I have to say that when, from the point of view of the balance of income and resources currently available to the state based on these regulations, it couldn't be done anymore. I'm encouraged by the fact that there's been a lot of craft skills, I'd say one approach to a budget that will be both rational and thrifty, and it won't allow us to fall under a line that someone constantly wants to talk about or wish for it. It's just, I think we should all think the opposite of how the more we get away from the moment we were already on fire. Happiness itself has led to the change of power in Serbia and the social responsibility, I would also say a particularly rational story, with new perceptions, with new ideas and new creations. What was found? Seven hundred and eighty thousand unemployed were found on the records, and out of the records, who knows how much, a huge deficit, a high rate of gray economy, and everything that follows that time. I mean, even in a certain way, parallel payment traffic that works in a single gray zone, a huge tax ejaculation and everything that contributes right now to the need for this society to stagnate. I would look at this budget in one development way, and as the minister said, this is one start of a serious and comprehensive tax, and I would say the budgetary reforms of this society. Only then can we get more employees and we can get a new momentum for the development of a society, employment and a serious tax system. Yesterday I listened to the comments of the former ministers. I remember some other time and time of their youth and flight, when they sat here and talked about the development of a political system. Unfortunately, we now have to realize that this fiscal system, which was created years ago, has cracked. It has fallen apart and today it is time to produce a whole new, rational, socially needed, socially responsible and system that will be the largest foundation of one society. You have the head of the tax administration of a man who is not a citizen of this country. I understand his need to sit in one society and work, but without emotion, he can't be creatively approached. When you don't have feelings for one country and one society, you can't even be a serious and responsible part of that society. It's always the fall of a good tax system. We had a few incomes right away. We've got a long time to raise on who's gonna be director of the tax administration. We created uncertainty internally in the tax administrations, overlapping local relations with the powers of state officials. We have a terrible drop in income. You don't even have a tax charge. They're standing there, they won't work, they're going around. It's a huge gray zone. Tax returns are enormous, I mean VAT returns, so this is a good intention and a good perspective. How's that? With the gray zone now. How? By returning to the real flows of all that is past, but you must change certain regulations. We've got so-called. transparency so that we can see everything in the APR about company registration, and then we get the company's hyperproduction, where only businesses are moving. Immediately after one loan in the bank, he moves to the next company, shuts down, etc. We have a cyclic circle where you can't tax it out, you can't get banks back on loans and you can't see what business is. We've come to have a situation where even the subsidies given by the state, after a year, these companies are being shut down and every lead is being lost to the owners and founders. I have to say that domestic banks are in a serious and unequal position when it comes to the financial market, and I think at this point it's responsible that the government is willing to do the capitalisation of the banking market. I have to say that I am talking to a number of representatives of Serbia's executive board of banks and I have to say that they are very concerned at this point about what will happen at the end of the financial year. The number of MPVs is higher than the projected by the bank's association. They say 33% - 34%, and I think it's even more right now. Many companies as a popular measure try to organise their own UPPR to in some ways avoid the situation they are in, some for a reason, and some try for no reason to delay the return of credit, the return of fresh money to crafts, or the financing of serious flows. If the completion and adoption of this budget would lead to serious government measures towards the resolution of the banking sector, with certain measures of credit monetary policy, to reduce the adequateness of capital, because it is necessary to address regulatory capital in an environment such as at this point in the Balkans, that is, this Southeast Europe, and to cut that capital price, then I think that we would create the conditions for a fresh potential to return to financing production at this point and we would get momentum towards employment. For a little while, I'm just gonna look around something called this gray zone. I'm asking you to raise the tax administration maximum, no matter where this is, because I think there's good energy and strength in people who work, because there's a lot of income. I am absolutely in agreement with Minister Krstic's wishes and intentions to come up with a comprehensive reform in the coming year, and I think it would be a real addition to this budget that we have at our disposal at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28793	National MP Bozidar Djelic reported for the replica, but as I understand it, MP Tomic said -- former finance ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28794	Thank you. Mr. Tomic, two things. I'm not talking to Mr. Tomic, I'm talking about what's just been said. First, how can you break a system that doesn't exist? In 2000 and 2001, we had a system where only 20% of all the money flows of the state went through the budget. Everything else went through special accounts. Secondly, what kind of system is it when you have sales tax rates that go from 2% to 29% and that change, i.e. in the Government, it was up to the minister to decide which rate was applied to what, so we discovered when we started working that the blanket was re-promatter, and that the clothes for children taxed at a lower rate could also go to numbers that could match the head of the SNS parliamentary group. So, unequivocally, it wasn't a system. What is this system where we had a budget deficit of 12% of gross domestic product? What is this system that led to the debt of a state that was 126% of GDP? What is this system where 80% of cigarettes were in illegal flows? What is this system where more than 70% of the oil is poured out of the system? It's known when the system was introduced, when suddenly it's down by 70% of the production of a refinery in Bulgaria, so we know where they've been pouring and where they've sold before. We know who screamed and who pushed when we put order into the market for cigarettes. (President: Time. In the end, I would say that I am surprised, since we in the DS agree that foreigners cannot be ministers, but some who are from the SNS should agree with Mr. Vukic who wanted a foreign minister. We're not the director of the tax administration, but this government, and don't say that strangers can't love us. I remember Mr. Stroscan, whom you brought in, said he loved Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28795	Replica, Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28796	Mr. Djelic totally turned the thing around. I was talking about the system we've been waiting for right now. It was made by one model that was very simple – 50% were sources of income, 25% were donations and the rest were revenues from privatisation. Today you have no more donations, no more privatisations, this is the real sector. So, even the EU has said what happened to privatisations in Serbia. You're talking about some old time. It was limited by wars, sanctions and all other elements that affected the survival of a state, and eventually the state ended up with the bombing at one point, unfortunately. Today we try to live in a civilized society all together, where, according to some things, we need to have a distance, but at this point we are trying to get a system that doesn't exist involved and into legal flows. Today is a bigger gray zone than it was in the early '90s. That's the facts. Even in the EU, we are said to be above 30%. Please, where's the money? What's going on? Where's our money coming out of the country? We're at a time when we need to get out of cold heads. You're not ready. And I was talking about respecting the right of a new, young man in an attempt to do something and contribute. You don't have the strength to do that. You can't let someone else contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28797	Replica, Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28798	Now you've brought it up to me openly. The only thing that can't be avoided in life is an elemental accident and death. These sanctions, this bombing, it was your former boss, when you were in the SPS, caused by his radical allies, Mr Nikolic, Mr Vukic. The spokesman and spokesman for this policy was Mr. Dacic. It's not an elemental accident that hit Serbia. Serbia is the only country to receive economic sanctions. Croatia and such HDZ have not received those sanctions. Mr. Tomic, it didn't fall from the sky, but it was the product of a catastrophic, suicide policy, which ensured that our country lost 63% of GDP, 60% of its industrial production. That's what we found, sir, when we compare 2000 to 1990. That's true. When you talk about privatisation, yes, there was not much open privatisation during the sanctions. It was covered up when it was done on the phone, so there was nothing to privatize until the boss said so. It was all prepared. When the transitional government came, then all the phones were back online and all these executives were going to take big packages for themselves. We all know that very well. We were thinking, when we passed this Privatisation Act, that we might prevent these adverse consequences and that's why we said it would be retroactive and it wouldn't be good. That's true. And the only privatisation you've done is the privatisation without the tender "Telecoma Serbia", which is why a minister in the Italian government had to resign because of corruption. I'm very proud to be in the government when we returned the package the Italians bought from you, and we returned the Greek one afterwards. Today, 100% Telecom is state-owned and DS has done so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28799	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28800	You're gonna have to answer one question. He'll stay silent and keep it quiet. I don't know if Mr Djelic represented these views in 2008, about the speakers, about the team responsible for the '90s, did he mind Ivica Dacic in 2008 or played basketball with him at the time, was he the best man when he was supposed to form a government? Or has all this been known over the past year and a half? Maybe they didn't know? Maybe they're wrong? But when it comes to the formation of the government, when it comes to benefits, when it comes to the possibility as Dragan Gilas did, and during the "Governmental" and "Ministerships" earned 38, almost 39 billion dinars, all of it is forgotten, anything is acceptable, anything is possible, only when you are in the nest and in the wing of the Democratic Party. I will answer any such pointless accusation that is contrary to both history and knowledge, if we are responsible for something that has happened in the past, and you have had all the power for 12 years, why haven't you prosecuted us? Why didn't you judge? Either you're not capable enough, or that's not true. I believe it's both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28801	National MP Aleksandar Senic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28802	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, this set of laws I would simply call – pulling out a healthy tooth. So it's obvious that there's a problem, but all of these laws that are proposed don't solve the problem but eliminate what's healthy in our economy, which are new investments. Proposal for a corporate tax law, i.e. By eliminating the possibility of using the tax credit, we clearly send a message that investments are not welcome. In addition, when we add the "SIEPA" shut down and there is no atmosphere where President Nikolic could come in, 100 billion euros, and this year we have barely 400 million, it is clear that we will have lower fiscal revenues and that our budget will be in a growing problem. I have submitted an amendment to postpone tax credit for at least a year. Because it's really not fair to investors who are now realising their investments that in the middle of the investment, we take away their right to use tax credit, unannounced retailes. We heard we've had the lowest inflation since the '90s. But the problem is that it is not a result of macroeconomic stability but of a fall in purchasing power and a decline in population standards. Also, boast of a stable course, but it is, unfortunately, not due to export growth, but excessive borrowing. In addition, there is a ban on public sector employment. What's the message to young people who graduate from high school and college? What's the message to someone who's going to finish high school or medical school this year? To get out of this country. How do you plan to accredit the Department of Public Payments in Agriculture so that it can withdraw funds from the IPA fund when it is, for example, By the minister announced that there are five hundred employees missing there so that they can be adequately accredited? Serbia's Agrarian Payments Administration has barely 50 employees and in Croatia almost 600 employees. If we don't get these grants, we can't develop agriculture, because through the budget you've proposed there's neither subsidies nor incentives nor investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28803	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28804	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws aimed at the consolidation of public finances and essential reform of the economy. The Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, is the only country in Southeast Europe that has failed to reduce public deficits during the 2008-2012 economic crisis. That's what she's responsible for, ladies and gentlemen, the former government, the former regime and no one else. I guess we'll all agree to that. This government could have pushed so irresponsiblely for another year or two, and then faced a harsh reality. with the country's bankruptcy. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia acted very responsibly, as it faced reality and publicly admitted that we had a problem. It is also good that the government of the Republic of Serbia has seen that the global economic situation on the Marko-economic market is worse than it was six months ago, and it also expects it to be worse. The government has tackled these economic problems that are not smaller than Kosovo and Metohija. The fate of the state, ladies and gentlemen, has been taken into our own hands so that we can have a future for our children and our country. If the government does not manage the situation in the area of the economy, the situation will manage the government and the country, chaos will arise. That's why the government's on the right track. It is our sacred duty, ladies of the people's MPs and positions and opposition, to help our thinking, our country's proposals when in crisis. I'm sure we have a wish and that's what we want. Conscious of these facts, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a comprehensive economic analysis, and has drawn up and adopted economic measures that form an integral part of these laws. These economic measures are of a long-term and short-term nature. The long-term character measures are based on a reduction in budget deficits to 2% to 3% by 2017, further, on increasing employment in the private sector through increased competitiveness and short-term measures, primarily on public sector wage cuts. The downsizing will be 20%, starting with wages between 60 and 100 thousand dinars and 25% on profits greater than 100,000 dinars. This reduction in public sector earnings should allow savings of 150m euros or 0.3% of the social product. This will not include any of the 100,000 educators in primary and secondary schools, because yesterday and today some opposition MPs, even though they were both professors of university and law professors, have repeatedly said that this reduction will reflect on educational workers, which is notorous untrue. Gentlemen professors and teachers, it won't be, it won't involve you 100 grand in primary and secondary schools, as many of you as there are, because your salaries are below 60 grand dinars. This applies only to college professors and some of the assistants in colleges. Secondly, it will also reduce the right of elected and appointed officials from six to three months after the end of the function and it is the right thing to do. The citizens of Serbia will most sincerely welcome this. The increase in VAT for non-existential products from 8% to 10% and the increase in the tax rate at which sales and imports of personal computers and components consist of personal computers from 8% to 20%. With this increase in VAT, the consumer basket of our citizens will be increased by about 500 dinars. Otherwise, this increase in VAT is expected to cost 200m euros and another 150m euros from curbing the grey economy and the captivating smuggling of excise products, and above all cigarettes and cut tobacco. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this tobacco law should be welcomed. Furthermore, the restructuring of public enterprises and the reduction of subsidies, measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia will reduce subsidies to businesses, but will continue to assist agriculture. These structural changes expect the largest savings of 500m euros annually. The Transition Fund provides for 20 billion dinars, as well as for workers in restructured enterprises, but at the same time, in the same way, and active employment measures and other social programmes. All workers will be taken care of, that's true. It will be seen individually every part of the company, to see if and how much part of the company is healthy and whether it can function, of course, when all obligations are lifted from these companies. That is why we need to change labour legislation most urgently, as there are 750,000 workers in the public sector. It is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given the Assembly the adoption and the law by which new workers are not allowed to be employed in the public sector until 1 December 2015, unless extremely necessary, which will be decided by the competent ministry. I think it's a real measure. It is also good that the register of staff in the administration is made up, as well as in the public sector, which is the initial letter in fixing the situation in the administration that has really been in the water for many years. Furthermore, savings in the goods and services domain, in addition to reducing the items, what are the travels, and there is a 10% reduction planned. Furthermore, the use of cheap loans. There will be positive loans to finance the budgets that the World Bank will give but also the Russian Federation and it is a newspaper. We couldn't win before because we didn't have adequate economic measures to recover the Serbian economy. Now the situation is changing, the World Bank has given us a positive assessment of economic measures. Another source of credit is bilateral arrangements that we can get with other countries, e.g. United Arab Emirates and others. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every billion credits with small interest from 2% to 3% brings relief from 100 to 150 million a year and ultimately changes in the business environment easier employment and layoffs of workers in amending the Labour Act that will follow in January, easier obtaining building permits, forming a office for quick answers and fighting crime and corruption, which is under way. In the end, the government of the Republic of Serbia leads one responsible policy, a policy to stop our country's economic collapse, and also to modernise Serbia, for which the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and SNS President Aleksandar Vucic and the president of our Parliament, Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for these laws in the voting day, especially from the opposition, by being at least a few accomplices to Serbia's modernisation and recovery process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28805	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28806	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, you said this budget was done in a different way and that this was a different budget. These days, we have had our chance, specifically yesterday, and in one part of today's prey, to see that you are somehow in the middle of between the two sides, one side that is constantly criticizing no matter what you suggest and on the other hand, which is very often referred to as history. I remind you that you're in the middle where you are in government, on a team that has to deal with the present and think about the future. We of Unity Serbia certainly do not want to be critics of this set of laws, the niche that will be before us. We're going to be critical about this, but when I say it, I think we're going to look for ways and opportunities that whenever we're in a situation we can actually help you out. What may be most important in the set of this law, and also in the budget that awaits us, is the evaluation of the Fiscal Council which in one material that we received on the Committee on Finance in capital letters, already wrote on the first page - the situation is very serious. I know you've made such a situation one set of laws that's also very serious, maybe all the measures aren't the most popular, but they're one of those that we have to apply very quickly. I'm going to make sure that I go through these ten laws very briefly as long as time allows, and I'm going to hold on to some for a little while longer. The first is the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. It's a good thing the extended indexation is up to two years, unfortunately it's not as big as we might expect, but it's a good thing we're thinking ahead. I mean, we're aware that these are not permanent solutions, that these are above all the necessary measures that we have to do. One of the colleagues mentioned today a situation that may not be clear to you when we talk about some lower levels of government about the bar and the municipalities and the cities. But believe me, when it comes to Vranjska Banja, where I come from in the public enterprises that we have in the last eight years, it's a trend that whoever last comes to work really has no place to sit, so they started wearing those hockey chairs, they're the chairs to break down. I don't think a measure like this is going to make big and expected effects important because I don't think they're going to have drastic measures in some savings. Personally, I think we should do a more serious reorganization in the entire system. Accordingly, do serious systems that will take into account the optimisms that we need, and then slowly implement them into the system. It's something that's at least popular, but it's something that certainly gives serious results. The second law is, in fact, the draft law amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. It is up to the previous law where once again it only confirms that the stabilisation of the system is necessary. Third, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, the law aims to specify the basis of the income tax on citizens based on earnings for natural persons, the resident of the Republic of Serbia who are also resident abroad. As well as the tax treatment of income from the sale of agricultural and forest products. The fourth is the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law. This is another one in a series of ways and laws that need to be fought against the gray economy, but personally, I think that the increase in all these penalties will not be enough if there is no more serious work on the ground to implement these penalties. The fifth law is the draft law on amendments and the Tax Act on additional value. This is another extorted solution. The rate that goes from 8% to 10%, we are aware that it will hit all citizens of Serbia, but it is evident that at this point it is probably the most necessary law that we have to adopt. I just want to tell you that we who live in Serbia are used to the difficult conditions of life, and it is not the first time that we all have to put up with some weight together. I just want to warn you that the effect of this law, as you said, is planned for 20 billion dinars. It won't be difficult for citizens to accept this increase in taxes from 8% to 10%, but we will have a dispute if that money and that money are not spent properly. It's a responsibility and a matter that will make us all pay the most attention to you who need to control it. On the other hand, I want to thank you and to commend that you have respected the hotelers' demands that their tax still remain at this lower rate, now from eight to ten, not to 20. I come from a tourist resort and I know what they've been saying the last 20 days since that information started. It is the sixth, draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gain of legal persons. Personally, I think this might be the thing we could have avoided right now. At the moment that our budget and our state are in place, I think the economy is the only engine next to the savings that can move things forward. I personally advocate like my party to introduce subsidies for anyone who is interested in investing in Serbia and someone who wants to start any production here. You are familiar with what Mr. Dragan Markovic Palm is doing and with the effects of his work for the past few years, that Jagodina is one of the cities that has filled his industrial zone, and that these days he has signed a contract with 32 mayors, not making sure which foreigners belong. One protocol in which he will try to bring each of them to an investor. This should be one message, perhaps not as much for you as I understand it, but for all party officials and party leaders who have representatives in Serbia's locals and cities. If we could find a mechanism to behave disciplined, each of them getting a job to bring at least one investor, which I don't think is impossible, and that's what our ambassadors around the world do, and that's what our consuls who have over 30 around the world do, I think it would be one serious effect on our economy, or it would definitely feel that way. As for the bill on salaries of civil servants and tenants, I agree that it should be reduced from six to three months. When it comes to us from Unity Serbia, as far as we're concerned, you can cancel all three because we think that all the benefits and privileges in this country have just been used by those people who used this one of the benefits. Personally, I think this is supposed to come down for maybe a month or it's gonna end completely. One of the laws is the draft law amending the Law on the return of the seized property and the compensation of all these people. I say again, I come from Vrnjačka Banja, it is a tourist resort that in the 40s was proportional to its size and population and most affected by nationalisation. I want to tell you that the Unique Serbia will support a set of these laws, but I repeat that we will be critical of any mistake that is made due to the trust that we are giving to someone. Another thing for the end, I think it is very important, and that is what one day when we talked about the Ministry of Traffic, our colleague Mrkonjic mentioned when he said that large and capital investments cannot be completed by one minister and cannot be completed by one government. Personally, I think that this budget that we're making right now is planned to be about one big project for the next three to five years that we all have to stop behind and maybe it won't be finished by this government, maybe you won't finish it either as a minister. It may take two governments, maybe three governments to bring this to an end. That is why it is one of the reasons, because of the full stabilisation in this country, from which the Unique Serbia gives you support until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28807	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go. The remaining time for the parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28808	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am simply touched by the performances of two former finance ministers. Whoever our finance minister was, I think we went well. So we heard a lot of criticism from their mouths. I would ask about the commitments that were made in 2013 and the commitments that they make in 2014 and the commitments they make in 2015, to see whose obligations they are, who spent that money and what he spent it on. As far as I can see, the commitments in 2013 were 433 billion, chief, and it was 91 billion interest. Obligations in 2014, next year, 463 billion as chief, and 112 billion as interest, a total of 575 billion. I believe that the debt was solely due to those two former finance ministers, one of whom ran in here for a minute or two, took a replica and went outside. So that's what it says about them. I believe these laws and this set of laws could have been better, but given what we found, this is great. Serbia during the former regime had the opportunity to spend as much as it earned but it spent more. Serbia could spend more than it earned 3.5 to 4 billion as it came from the diaspora, but that wasn't enough either. Serbia spent more. Serbia could spend as much as it sold social capital from worse, but that wasn't enough either, Serbia could spend and the funds it received in the donation, but that wasn't enough, so they put Serbia in charge as a state for nearly 17 billion, but that's not all. Everyone here forgets the debt of the economy that came into existence at the time and has reached 22 billion. The population's debt was 6 billion euros, the overall found state was 45 billion euros in debt to the population, which is the economy, which is the state. This resulted in these interest rates and these principals only on public debt. If we take only the interest rate is about 7%, we're going to need it as an economy and a state, at least three billion, three and a half billion people just to pay off and service interest according to this debt. Even sadder than anything, this debt has not been created as a source of debt recovery. We peasants, when we're in debt, we buy a tractor, we buy a field, we borrow a loan, and we create a source for the return of that loan so that we're left with more to service the debt and our production grows. We have in the country and households that raise the loan, spend money in the pub on some irrelevant things, then they have neither production nor tractor, nor mechanicals, then the street is broken down, the machinery is sold, the elevator is gone, they are not sown, and of course there is no way to pay back the debt. Such a position was to Serbia the moment we found it in June of 2012, and therefore I admit that our opponents are very brave people when all this information that is very accurate has the courage to resist and to claim that this government has led the country to ruin. What I'm trying to say in these laws is that future pensions don't need to be coordinated like this with the same percentage, that there should be a harmonisation of those minimum pensions up to 20 to 25,000 dinars and that those that are larger than these should not be increased because the growing difference between the minimum pensions and the minimum pensions is let's say 10,000 dinars and it's not right for someone to increase pensions who has 70, 80,000 he's going to get 400 dinars and whoever has 10,000 is going to get five or 50 dinars. So I believe that the future ministry should increase pensions above all those who have the least because they are socially endangered. As far as tobacco is concerned, I'd like this to go away. I know what your wish is. Your wish is to return the tobacco from the market to legal flows but I'm afraid that the former finance minister I warned by increasing the excise duty last year from 30% to tobacco simply pushed the cheapest cigarettes into the gray market and for the previous six months compared to 2012, we sold those cheap cigarettes less by 200 million boxes resulting in lower revenues than before the excise increase. So I believe that if we go back to the excise duty that was valid until last year before the increase, I protect to collect far more income than this, because I don't think you'll be able to control the smuggling of tobacco, which is sold by emergency markets, if the price of these cheap cigarettes and those excises is reduced, and I believe it would have a greater effect. What I'm saying is that the money we're in charge of is most likely robbed, it's not just a public sector pay limit, and I can support it, but you have to limit the representations. I'll set an example of the Ratz municipality where only nine months from now, 10,000 people ate 4,000 thousand. The phones were spent 2,000, fuelled by 22,000, on the daily diaries of 2.500,000. So 10,000 per 10,000 inhabitants have been spent and you have to find a way to limit them. The public sector has lived as it will, the privateer as it must and the most beautiful description has been given by Professor Zec – Serbia has been one big bowl, from which they have learned as much as they wanted, and the fewer people have been who have put something into it and we have found such a situation. The ones with the words, they never went into action. They've gone into action, but these acts are mostly criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-04-0.u28809	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled examination of the draft law referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. We continue our work on Friday, December 6, at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 67 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Vesna Marjanovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Budgetskomist. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Mirko Cikiriz, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Dr Nenad Popović, Dusica Morčević, Gorica Gajic, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Nada Kolundžija, Gorica Mojović, Jovana Joksimović, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Mejandžić Đurdić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Siniša Lazić, Bojan Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Dejan Mihajlov, Aleksandar Pejčić, Gordana Čomić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Ljiljana Lučić, Vesna Kovac, Slavica Saviljić, Mladjan Dinkić and Judita Popović, as well as an amendment of the Committee for Finance, the Republic budget and control of public funds. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Zoran Babic, written on the way, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 6. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
