ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18232	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 89 MPs present in the hall, i.e. there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Thursday, I would like to ask whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. National MP Enis Imamovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18233	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question today is for the Ministry of the Interior. The citizens of Novi Pazar organised their first peaceful protest walk for safe Novi Pazar last Friday, June 7th. The protest called for the immediate replacement of police chiefs in Novi Pazar, Dragan Terzic. A protest walk has been organised because of another one in the ensuing killings in Novi Pazar. Neither this last murder nor the numerous previous brutal murders in the New Market, armed robbery and other cases of serious crime have been lit up. Not even a case of armed incursion into the official premises of the Bosniak List and the attempted murder of Minister Ugljanin on January 17th 2009. The inability of police management in Novi Pazar to solve these crimes has raised the crime rate to the highest possible level. As a consequence of this, a strong sense of personal and property uncertainty has been created among the citizens of New Market. The security of the citizens of New Market is left to them. Police are unable to do the job they've been paid for, precisely with the money of citizens who are now looking for the replacement of New Market Police Chiefs. The Sandzak Democratic Action Party has been pointing back for years to this police behaviour and suggests that this is exactly the kind of behavior that is the generator of evil in Novi Pazar. My questions for the Home Office are: What about investigations into these crimes? What about the investigation into the armed incursion into the official premises of the Bosniak List and the attempted murder of Minister Ugljanin on January 17th? When will the interior ministry react to the requirements for the removal of Dragan Terzic and when will Dragan Terzic be removed from the post of head of the new market police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18234	Thank you. The next one to ask is MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18235	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to refer my first question to the Ministry of Agriculture. The Serbian Renewal Movement has brought a declaration on a permanent ban on the use, cultivation and transport of genetically modified organisms in the territory of the Republic of Serbia due to the possible adverse effects of such products on people and the environment. Our SPO-DHSS parliamentary club in its human resources and organisational and human resources related to land use or land management and other production resources and the organisation of agricultural production, processing and transport of agricultural and food products, will remain a major opponent of the cultivation and spread of genetically modified organisms in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that it is not enough to say all of this, but it needs a whole range of public campaigns, public officials, tribunes, lectures, public appearances, public information means to warn and inform the entire population, all in order to combat illegal cultivation and traffic of genetically modified organisms and products. Our MP club expects all state authorities and political parties and movements to advocate the consistent application of the Law on genetically modified organisms and relevant legal acts, to prevent illicit cultivation and traffic of genetically modified organisms and possible adverse consequences to the health of the population and pollution of nature in the Republic of Serbia. My question is – what will the competent ministry and Mr Goran Knezevic, whom I respect, not only since he became a minister but since when he was a member of the DS, do about it? Because first of all, there is great ignorance in this area, and out of ignorance there are great mistakes that can be fatal to our population. I'm asking the second question to the police minister and the prime minister, the minister of justice and the minister of economy. The issue concerns the agony that more than 250 employees go through at the Black Hors battery factory in Somboro, so 250 permanent employees plus so many more who are tied to various labour contracts. The factory was one of the most stable factories in the old Yugoslavia. Up to a few months, she represented in some way the symbol of Somboro, when it comes to the success of this factory. The factory was purchased several years ago by Serbian businessman Miroslav Bogicevic, who bought half of Serbia and a series of similar factories, to come into the situation today that the factory is literally ahead of the shut-down. How amazing this data suggests is the fact that the factory last year had a turnover of 8.6m euros, net traffic and everything they were supposed to make last year, 80% went to the ino-market. We all know that how various tycoons have developed and what support they have from certain parties in our history, but this time I want to get clear information -- who made it possible for people like Bogicevic to rise up so much above everyone, to buy "Politics", to buy various factories, such as the battery factory, to destroy all that they encounter, to treat workers as some lower beings, and that entire cities and villages literally have to worry about their existence, exclusively because they have to settle some personal, and God has both foreign and political interests? I don't think any city deserves it, so neither do my fellow citizens in Somboro. This issue can be called employees to both the government and the owner of the Concern Farm to take steps to find this difficult situation. So my question is clear – what can the Government do and is it familiar with all the facts about this big problem that burdens my fellow citizens who, due to their poor local government policy, have fewer and fewer chances of employment, because in Somboro almost no serious investor has come in the last few years? So, not only do we not have an investor, but we are destroying what was more than quality in this city yesterday and where my fellow citizens, workers working in that company, were safe for their jobs. Also, I expect the police minister to finally say who are the people who are responsible and who have allowed such people to become among the richest people in Serbia without fulfilling their obligations to the factory and the workers in the cities where they bought that property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18236	Thank you. MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18237	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic -- are the exact announcements that appeared yesterday in some media, which are now coming from a government minister, that by June 30th, the Serbian government plans to break the law adopted by this parliament and refuse to call competitions for the directors of all public enterprises in Serbia? In fact, as you remember, at the end of 2012, we adopted the Law on Public Enterprises, which is one of the basic qualities, even according to the announcements of those who proposed it, at the end of 2012. Since none of this existed in the basic law, the LDP parliamentary group has done several amendments, including the amendment supplementing Article 66. The law and which says that in all public undertakings to which this law applies, competitions for new directors will be announced by 30 June 2013. According to government announcements, it is obvious that the ruling coalition has agreed to keep its directors who would not pass even the minimum conditions of the competition in the directorial positions by breaking the law, voluntarily adopt an interpretation that the law applies only to those who are in V.D. The state, and so on, leaves phenomenal personnel, such as the director of "Zeleznica" Simonovic, I suppose also the director of "PTT traffic Serbia" Krkobibic and several dozen similar directors throughout Serbia for whose gaffes or business failures and we do not know, because they are not so attractive to the public. You have so much power in this country that you can set up every competition for the director of public enterprises. Then why are you so humiliated by this country and not even ready to go to the fine contests? How nicely in Novi Sad did you call a competition for the director of the Public Communal Company "water and sewerage" and write on the terms that a man should have completed his history and three years of work experience in the historical profession? What bothered you to write a competition for the director of "Serb Railway" and say – each one can eat three portions of steak with black truffles and I believe that only Mr. Simonovic would be able to meet such a high-ranking condition. You could have written a contest for the director of the "PTT Post Office of Serbia" and said -- it could be a candidate whose father is Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and the son of a secretary in Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce, and I believe only Mr. Milan Krkobic could win such a contest. Once again, I warn you, put a political stance and a legal position on how you will apply the Law on Public Enterprises or we will go to courts in this country. This is simply too much demeaning of parliament, 250 or something less people here have passed the law. You are now trying to fully derivate the provision of Article 66(4) and for months you have been in violation of all other provisions of that law, a provision that we have put into law that state monopolies should not be advertised, so that state firms, i.e. public firms, are not to be abused for party purposes, so you are setting up competitions throughout Serbia, so you have appointed boards in the period from January to today, when the law explicitly prohibits you from setting up boards, so you have appointed SNS vice president for the board of directors of the "Serbia". It is really not clear to me that this government and the ruling coalition is not a shame that in the day when the data comes out that over 600m euros is accumulated loss in 2012 from state-owned enterprises, that you tell us that the current directors of public enterprises that, there is no doubt, behave in a very similar way and are chosen in a very similar way, that the elected and directors of the previous government and those governments before, so that these same people will be left in the places where they are. I can't remember in the past 20 years more brutally announcing violations of the law than this one that is now happening. Maybe just stealing from a constitutional referendum that lasted two days. That's one question. Secondly, just ten seconds, does the government, or the Labour Ministry, Minister Krkobic, plan to apologize to associations of deaf people who have called to report and report for a debate on the draft law by calling for a fixed phone? It's just too much gaff and too much insult for these people to be left without an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18238	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Mrkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18239	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I see that some of the topics the DSS has been running over these years are now becoming very important. I hope this subject that I'm about to launch today becomes the same. Veterinary services are for every country, except Serbia, a service of public interest, because defending and protecting animal health, the health of milk, meat, eggs and all products of milk, meat and eggs actually defends the public health of Serbian citizens. An example of all this is the story of the aflatoxin affair. From this pay phone, we have repeatedly warned agriculture ministers, during these years, today Mr. Knezevic what strategic failures are real and how the strategic failures of the consequences of citizens' health and the material gain of Serbian citizens will make. This is a question for Mr. Knezevic. (Chairman: I ask the People's MPs...) I really can't keep track of the session. ) Since last year, therefore, the problem with the supply of swine fever vaccines has been on the market for veterinary medicinal products. Many farms and veterinary cells don't get the necessary amounts for a year. No new animals have been vaccinated in Serbia last month. In Serbia, from time to time, some drop arrives, as 680,000 vaccines have now arrived, but that's enough, let's say, for Vojvodina. The second part of Serbia cannot be supplied. Some farms, practically, I said, none of the only animals were vaccinated last month. This poses a huge risk of classical swine fever, as continuity is interrupted to apply, and only by continuity ensures the efficiency of the measure. Of course, I have to say, even though it is silent, there is still swine fever in both wild animals and domestic pigs. We had a few years ago, a year or two ago, in Vojvodina, one such problem. The problem has also arisen with the supply of the vaccine market against the rabies of domestic animals, and immediately follows the question of which majors have the right to import vaccines? Not to mention the permanent problem of some medications and other vaccines, anthrax vaccines, legally-registered vaccines for vaccination of cats and horses, drugs for bovine respiratory diseases, aerobic infections, etc. Next is a question for Mr. Knezevic – how does the minister think he will solve this acute problem permanently? Of course, if it involves smuggling and illegal trafficking. Does the state intend to preserve its own production of vaccines and serums? A very important question, since we sold everything we could sell. Next question – why is the Minister late for the adoption of the 2013 action programme half a year? Why is there no two - thirds of the measures that existed in former programs in this programme? Of course, I don't want to understand that it's because of the economic situation, because these are very important measures for someone to justify it that way. For example, surveillance has been omitted by carrying out the vaccination of foxes against rabies and the plague of feral pigs. How do we know that some measure has effects, that it's given results, if we don't have surveillance? Active surveillance of veterinarians has been abandoned and expelled, and this is a tour of farms. This is justice, and he explains it professionally, that it's because of abuse, it's similar to shutting down the Environmental Protection Fund. I'm sorry, the abuses were, but now there's a question -- why are they being covered up, why aren't they being resolved, and what about the affair about the counterfeited number of sheep in the town of Kragujevac, where the budget is directly damaged by a figure of half a million euros and perhaps more? If you multiply the number of checks by the number of animals, you'll see that's a lot more. Next question – what is the minister planning on conflicting the interests of officials, directors of public veterinary cells and veterinary institutes, which are also owners, i.e. co-owners of veterinary cells? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18240	The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18241	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My question points to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, although my question concerns issues from the Ministry of Culture's jurisdiction, but given that the previous period has shown that the results announced have not been achieved, and have been announced very ambitiously, I think it is obvious that there is no interest in this portfolio or only the ministry has no capacity to impose what are very important topics from their jurisdiction. It is a media strategy that was announced at the beginning of this government very ambitiously in terms of the realisation of the law that should come out of it. A large number of public debates were held, one here in parliament. In the end, it's all gone, and the public doesn't know what's going on anymore. We have recently heard from a member of the task force that there have been fundamental changes in the draft information law and the media. So my question is what happens to progress in the adoption of these laws, especially given that a press freedom conference, organised by Stefan File, Commissioner for Enlargement, will be held in Brussels at the end of this month, where will the special topic be the state of media regulation and media freedoms in the Western Balkan countries? Also in early November in Belgrade, a conference of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers will be held to deal with only media regulation in the countries of the Council of Europe. I hope, therefore, that this government, since it has shown its desire to move more rapidly into European integration, since this topic, which will concern our further progress, will give this topic a little more serious attention than it has done now. What is particularly important in the adoption of this media strategy, which is not sufficiently spoken of, is that the adoption of those laws is a condition for Serbia to approach the conclusion of a kind of contract and agreement with the EU Directorate for Culture and Education, and for entering into two very important programmes that can help our poor, present, situation in the area of culture, that is the Creative Europe Fund and that is the media fund, that is, the Media Programme. Both have huge funds or very large funds in their budgets, which allow our artists, our production houses to apply, to get the necessary funds to survive. Just an example, I'm talking about a lack of will in the Ministry of Culture to deal with this issue just when they weren't able to fight for their budget. That in the previous year, we withdrew 100,000-euro membership funds from the culture programme, that Croatia from the Media programme, in which we are not yet a member, BiH did, for a membership fee of 120,000 euros, withdrawed 2m euros and 200,000 euros. I think he's saying enough about how unserious we are about this issue. In light of the announced protests by artists, art associations, that this speaker has a lot to say about the dramatic situation in culture, I hope that the government will pay attention to this topic and that certain promises, made to us by the minister of culture, which is that, for example, 200 million dinars for Serbian cinematography will be transferred, that it will try to keep those promises. My second question concerns the Citizens' Protectors' initiative to amend the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children and the Labour Act to help parents with children with developmental and disability problems. The government has already rejected the proposal to amend the Labour Act, which would allow parents to work part-time and after the completion of the fifth year of their lives, with a reason to plan wider changes to the Labour Act by the end of the year. On the occasion of a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, the Government has not yet declared itself and therefore I ask the Government – does it intend to send its opinion to Parliament on proposed changes or does it intend to propose any other measures that would improve the situation of families with children with developmental and disability disorders? Thousands of citizens have signed a petition supporting the proposed changes, and the government owes them an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18242	The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has become a rule that we in Serbia very often do not know how some two, seemingly unrelated, parallel actions can end in conflict. A few months ago, while Serbia talked a lot about the problems of treating children in need of transplants, probably at the same time, an open offer was found at the Lek Chamber of Serbia's site to buy a large space in the middle of Belgrade, preceding the purchase of space for the needs of so-called. medical homes in Kragujevac, competition for Nis etc. opened. Someone who's interested in keeping track of all this has responded to it, the media has recorded it. That is how the famous affair of the Serbian Medical Chamber was created. Citizens, lay and professional public, as well as professional associations react to such affairs. One of the reactions she reacted was the Serbian Doctor's Society. It also sent an inquiry and a request to the Serbian medical chamber to declare its business, then there is a series of questions that arise about business, legitimacy, the availability of money, the right to purchase such space, the right to professionalise the service, the right to conduct continued medical education, especially through a private agency suspected of being directly involved. The offices of the chamber in Novi Sad, a regional branch that requested the shift of directors, the doctors of the medical school wanted to exclude themselves from the Medical Chamber for this reason, a group of citizens, the Association of Doctors of Serbia's pharmaceuticals. That's all you can find on the site if a man starts looking on the site. All of this is constantly being followed by the media, and the matter is sharpening to the end. The medical chamber is now perceived as the sole culprit of the Serbian Doctor's Society, the Esnaf Association 140 years old, and is now asking for it to be made known about its properties, investments, etc. The circle is constantly opening and closing, new enquiries are being put in place, and things are getting worse during May, early June, where newspapers are constantly starting to talk about the conflict. As a doctor, it's really awkward for me to ask such questions within the group. It's rare who wanted to do it. They'd put all that stuff on doctors most of the time. I am a member of both associations, and I am sure that such behaviour does not convert even to the Serbian medical society, to be called. Even, for example, the enquiries are sent – whether you voted in the presidency or not, and if so, the measure established by the Code of Conduct will apply. Authoritarian behavior, probably triggered by the reckless statement of Director Commora - the Chamber is obliged to issue licences, is not obliged to treat, on request, which you buy so much space, if one of these couples could also operate. Indeed, serious questions have been raised in the light of the Benevolent Matters, so as to ensure that the two Esnafic associations that are gathering doctors, on the one hand voluntarily, with certain competences, on the other hand, are required to pay membership fees on behalf of which the Medical Chamber is available in a way that is likely to cover decisions. Are all these decisions so right, do we need to have doctors' homes in every city where they will sit, read and conduct education, when education is spent on a large number of people, in other institutions? Secondly, the law provides for the accreditation of the education programme to be carried out by the Health Union of Serbia. Even strictly in the law, there's no mention of the Medical Chamber being able to perform an education program, but since there are agencies, various and different, and as some kind of institution that controls the Ministry of Health, it can do education, and it's not controversial. Whether or not she can hire a private agency, organize and do it in her name, whether these homes will continue to issue these homes for education purposes, what everything behind the hills is worth with the amount of money that has never been publicly known but reports on annual incomes and expenditures, opposing sides claim, which is not true. Therefore, all this together requires the need to refer to the Ministry of Question – in what way he thinks, and in accordance with the law, Articles 49 and 50. The law on medical chambers, the chambers of health workers, to control the legality of work and acts of the Chamber, because it has been asked that it is not the most regular, and there was no quorum, and it was not brought in one way or another? And two, that the Ministry of Finance announced, controlled or controlled the legality of spending, because there are many other enquiries, where travel was made, what was paid, who got the apanages, who entered the regular working relationship, under what conditions, etc. A very large number of questions are also a chance to reduce the demand of the nation and the curiosity that violates the reputation of the medical profession, because the best way that the government, if it takes such measures, or competent ministries, will once calm the situation... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in Serbia and reconcile these two associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18244	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the sittings of MP Djordje Milicevic. We continue our work and move on to a unique search of the 9th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAWAL POLICIA. You have received a motion for a resolution submitted by a group of 25 MPs. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. You've received the government's opinion. Before the search opens, I remind you that according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as if this time were allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've received a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a resolution. Does the proposing representative, MP Srdjan Mikovic, want a word? MP Srdjan Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18245	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is my great pleasure that as a representative of the motion for this resolution, as a representative of a group of 25 MPs from different parliamentary groups, which are all or members or deputies of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which I have the honour to address and present the motion for a resolution on legislative policy. During the long time that has followed us, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, or earlier, the Legislative Committee, paid great attention, in line with its work cycle, to monitoring the construction of the legal system in the Republic of Serbia. Following the adoption of the new Constitution in 2006, there have been major changes in the legal system, with a particular tendency to comply with EU legislation. The requirement should be brought into line with the speed of regulation on the one hand and the requirement for quality of the rules adopted on the other hand, how to bring a large number of new regulations within the short time limit, while respecting the requirements of good legislative policy. When I say – the requirements of good legislative policy, I mean the adoption of such a normative framework, whose proper application in reality will achieve the set social objectives. I also think of some specific requirements that form part of a good legislative policy and which this committee is particularly concerned about. We always ask ourselves – are we in a maze of regulations that are difficult to find a way out or are we in a functional legal system that is accessible to addressees, clear and applicable? The work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives shall immediately, with a view to monitoring the construction of the legal system, be governed by the methodology for the making of the rules. It is understandable if it comes from the theoretical attitude that there are two aspects of normative action. One aspect is that, when drawing up the text of the bill, it is necessary to give politically acceptable and professionally feasible comprehensive solutions. The second aspect is to make the bill unambiguously clear and precise. It's not just a matter of how it's normalized, it's a question of how to make what you're governing by regulation. That is why, following the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a uniform methodological rule was adopted under the Law on the National Assembly, which began to apply on 1 July 2010. This regulation has just been passed by the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly. In the present application, these rules have contributed to the improvement of work in the design of regulations and the provision of a unique methodology in their preparation, in particular in issues such as the content of the regulations, its form, language, style and method of writing, the rules for amending and supplementing the rules, the interpretation of the regulations and the way in which amendments are written on the draft rules. This time, we have defined ourselves to propose a different type of act, a resolution on a legislative policy that points to problems and needs in legislative policy and provides some guidance for its improvement, as well as a way of monitoring the implementation of established guidelines. This resolution was adopted by the National Assembly on 8 March 2013 by 25 MPs, members and deputies of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. We felt that this was the time for the National Assembly to determine its role in introducing legislative policy and its relationship with all participants in the legislative process, as well as for monitoring the application of the laws. We want not only to present problems, but also to establish measures for their overcoming and improving the effectiveness of legislative policy in our country. To get to that, we tried to build attitudes in the resolution on exact data. The real state of the legislative policy in the Republic of Serbia has been able to see through the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which, in accordance with its work cycle, has insight into the whole of the legislation. In co-operation with the OSCE Mission in Serbia, an analysis of the Committee's work has been drawn up to determine to what extent parliament only formally adopts what the Government is proposing, and to what extent it really affects the content of the legal texts. The results that occurred during the observed period showed that the draft laws in the congregation procedure change and supplement the amendments in a significant amount. This is the opposite of an opinion that is partly widespread in the public, including in the professional public, that the National Assembly only formally accepts the Government's draft laws and does not significantly change them. These data are an important indicator for us in the design and implementation of the legislative policy. When asked what the role of the national parliament is in the conduct of a country's legislative policy in the modern world, we have looked for answers in the exchange of experiences with colleagues from other European parliaments. To this end, together with the Committee on Legal Affairs of the German Bundestag, we organised the First International Conference of the Legal Affairs Committee in Belgrade in 2011 and the second in Germany in 2012. The very fact that this co-operation of our committees will continue in the future, namely that the conference as a form of co-operation has become traditional, speaks of the importance given to these topics in the European Parliaments. An important factual basis in the work on the resolution is the results of the Committee's participation in two very serious projects – an analysis of the legal system with the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in Warsaw and with the German organisation for international co-operation, the so-called GIZ. In co-operation with ODIR, within the framework of the programme to improve the legislative process and the quality of regulation in the Republic of Serbia, which takes place on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the ODIR, on 17 May 2011, an assessment of the legislative process and quality of regulation in the Republic of Serbia was made in Warsaw, on the basis of which areas were identified to improve parliamentary procedures. With regard to co-operation with the German International Co-operation Organisation, Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenabeit, has long been present in Serbia. Since 2001, the GIZ project for legal reform has been present in Serbia, and in 2011 the implementation of the Support Project for the implementation of legal reforms in the Republic of Serbia, which is scheduled to last eight years, i.e. until 2018. The bilateral project financed by the German Federal Ministry of Economic Co-operation and Development is supported by the Office for the European Integration of the Republic of Serbia, and as a result of the work so far, a study on the improvement of the legislative process in the Republic of Serbia has already been promoted on 270 pages of useful observations and recommendations. In addition to the study on improving the legislative process, the work of our joint project group, supported by the GIZ, covers a whole range of activities. I note, however, that in a project group, in which I am a representative of the National Assembly, and representatives of the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, the Ministry of Finance and Business, the Office for European Integration, the Republic Secretariat for Law, the General Secretariat of the Government, the Office for Regulatory Reform and the analysis of the effects of regulations, the Office for Co-operation with Civil Society, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Council of Foreign Investors of the NGOs. We have all tried to make a contribution and recommendations, not only for the text of the motion for a resolution, but also for the process currently under way, which is in progress, which is mutually harmonising and harmonising a series of regulations that regulate the legislative process according to an advanced methodology, such as strategy, regulatory reforms and analysis of the effects of the regulations, amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Government, or when making supplementary analyses to see the situation in a given area, such as analyses of normative and analytical affairs in the institutions of the legislative and executive authorities, as well as anything that helps improve the legislative process. The creation of this act is the result of a harmonised attitude of these institutions, set out in key study recommendations, and I note that the first recommendation of this study is to consider the possibility of adopting the National Assembly resolution on legislative policy, i.e. normative action, given the importance of the legislative process for the quality of the law and the necessity of an optimal combination of legal, political, economic and organisational knowledge, skills and measures in general. The text of the motion for a resolution on legislative policy is the result of our joint work and, above all, of the people present at the gallery of this hall, which is Prof. Dr. Dobrosav Milovanovic, Professor of the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade, Ms. Dragan Curci, Project Manager of the Office for Legal Reform and Dr. Radoja Cerovic, Secretary of the Committee for Constitutional Affairs and Law of the National Assembly. I thank them this time, because they have also contributed to the formation of this text. Thank you. During the work on the original text of the motion for a resolution, certain suggestions were accepted by Ms. Milica Delevic, then the chairman of the Committee on European Integration of the National Assembly, as well as the members of the Project Group, I told you from which the structure were members of the Project Group, and after the public hearing was held and certain other suggestions. In a public hearing on the motion for a resolution, held on 2 April in the Small Hall of the House of the National Assembly, a large number of prominent experts took part and it contributed to the final appearance of the amendments that I originally submitted on 28 March 2013, and corrected, or completed, on 11 and 12 June. I note that at this public hearing in front of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE from Warsaw, or in front of the ODIR, as an extremely relevant institution for the assessment of legal acts, Ms Yevgenija Evatis has positively assessed the motion for a resolution. During the process of establishing the motion for a resolution, and especially during the public hearing, we have come to a whole series of good suggestions. I note that identical suggestions and recommendations have been made by representatives of different institutions. For example, with regard to the proposal to supplement the resolution practically part of the amendments, which particularly highlights the principle of gender equality, except for Miss Dragana Curcia, the same attitude was given by Nevena Petrusic, a trustee for the protection of equality. An identical position as regards the alignment of the text of the resolution with Article 107. The constitution was held by Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly, Mr Mladen Mladenovic and Vlatko Ratkovic as representative of the AP Vojvodina delegation, former chairman of the National Assembly Legislative Committee. With regard to the suggestion made by Mr Gradimir Nenadovic, as representative of the Director of the Republic Secretariat for the Legislatives of Mr Dejan Djurdjevic, which was presented at the very public hearing, with regard to the feedback of certain provisions, a suggestion was adopted to use the constitutional formulation. In this respect, I would like to explain immediately as regards the proposed amendment, which was proposed on 28 March, which was updated on 11 and 12 June. I note that similar positive suggestions and positive views were given both by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gordana Comic, in terms of making sublaws at the same time as the Bill Draft, and by Mr Miladin Pantelic, general secretary of the National Bank of Serbia. Many entities who were able to engage in a public debate similar suggestions or similar attitudes took. It just assures me that what we are Members of the people, 25 of us, suggested that it is well-coordinated and an attempt was made to make the text as high as possible. Also, Mr. Robert vaccine, as a representative of the office and protector of citizens, has made a positive statement on the text of the motion for a resolution. At this moment, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you that the adoption of a resolution on legislative policy does not end our work, but continues, because after the adoption of the resolution every year we will be able to assess progress in the improvement of the legislative process, and in this process a special role will be played by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. We will be waiting for further work in the next period to determine the methodology of developing an analysis of the effects, regulations and other accompanying documents, but without this resolution as a strategic document that should give direction to everyone in the legislative process, without this resolution that should practically increase the authority and integrity of the National Assembly compared to all other participants in the legislative process, I believe that all of this would be more difficult. In this regard, as a representative of the motionors, I urge you to engage in the discussion and to support the motion for a resolution in the voting day. I note that with regard to the amendments submitted to the text of the resolution, one amendment with the text, which means, with an amendment that ended with 11 June, was adopted by a majority vote on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. In relation to this text, as the applicant of that amendment, which is practically not my amendment, but the amendment of all those involved in the debate, who also tried to contribute one number of these suggestions. I mentioned here and I tried to explain why the amendment was so large, just to get all these suggestions in. There was also accepted only part of the amendments that are also our colleagues and colleagues divided on 11 June, I tried to accept two amendments on June 12th and to include in this amendment, which is that in the concept of human rights and freedom we especially highlight the notion of minority rights and use the same formulation to follow it from the preamble to the end of the resolution. One small technical change has been made, which is clear to point out to everyone in relation to the text adopted on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18246	Thank you. Does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislator want a word? MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I now appear as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to give full support to the rapporteur, or authorised representative of counterpart Srdjan Mikovic. Everything he said stands. I would add that it is a great credit for this resolution today and for the whole project, that it also lies on my predecessor at the head of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, that was at the time the Committee on Law, the MP Vlatko Ratkovic. He launched this whole procedure, co-operated with both the GIZ and the OSCE and other international organisations. I would also take the opportunity to say that GIZ himself said in his statement that the resolution on legislative policy is the result of the work of all competent state institutions whose representatives are members of the project group to improve the legislative process in Serbia with the direct support of the GIZ legal reform project. The resolution is part of a harmonised plan to implement recommendations for the improvement of the legislative process and contains measures and activities that will allow for a more transparent and inclusive process of law making and other regulations, simpler application and timely implementation of the law in the future. The GIZ legal reform project will continue to support the implementation of this resolution in co-operation with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and National Assembly legislation. At this point, I will take the opportunity to thank GIZ and the representatives who are here today as far as I can see with us. Especially Mrs. Curchia and Professor Milovanovic. We are absolutely sure that this resolution will find its way to all MPs, that if nothing is adopted without a vote against for the simple reason why it really is a quality project. It is a project that will contribute greatly, and we will see this during the later discussion, a lot to contribute to a better way of passing laws but also better understanding of the text of the law itself and the greater accessibility of laws by ordinary citizens, i.e. citizens who, even after the last amendments to certain laws, will have free access to all laws and regulations via the internet. I will stress that this resolution, i.e. its proposal, has been signed by 25 members and alternate members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I will also remind myself that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives currently has 31 members, namely the deputy member independent of political membership, regardless of which political parties these MPs have signed. I think this is a unique case, and I've done my best to study the history of so far the work of the National Assembly and the committee responsible for constitutional matters and legislation and all other committees, and I don't remember any resolution simply being signed by almost all members of a committee regardless of political membership. I think it's the same proof that you can work very well together. Of course, all the criticisms we've heard, including, of course, certain amendments that we've had the opportunity to hear about this resolution are welcome. The criticisms we have heard are considered well-intentioned, so in one word we expect that in the day of voting, if nothing else, they will be adopted without a vote against. Once again, I thank and give my great thanks to Deutschegesellschaft fur international zusammenabeit (GIZ) and their project for legal reform. They have helped greatly, and we hope that this co-operation will be even more fruitful in the future and will be directed towards other sectors that we find to be of interest both to citizens and to develop a legal system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18248	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18249	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an important document on the agenda, an important resolution that was to be found on the agenda of the National Assembly a long, long time ago, perhaps ten years ago. The ideal moment for this resolution was the moment when the EU Accession Resolution was adopted. Since a good part of European integration refers to the harmonisation of legislation with EU legal assets, I think it was logical at the time. Unfortunately, that opportunity was then missed but certainly better today to bring the resolution than not to bring it. What the values of the resolution are, firstly, is that the resolution is certainly a multi-party, multi-party, in the sense that it has the support of other MPs from the ruling coalition and from the opposition. It is certainly the value of the resolution that, before submitting the resolution, a serious study and a serious analysis has been carried out and in collaboration with international organisations dealing with this issue. Certainly the value of this resolution is the comprehensiveness, the coverage of most of the resolution, and I'll talk about it later, I mean the part that we're missing from the motion for a resolution. What certainly makes a comprehensive part of the resolution is the objectives of the legislative policy, therefore, that part relating to the objectives, and on the other hand the part relating to the principles of the legislative procedure. What is also comprehensive is a catalogue or list of problems or the lack of a legislative process. What is missing from the motion for a resolution is some concrete measures, concrete steps that should be taken to ensure that the objectives, principles and lists of these problems are met, or more fully, I will also talk about it later. So, as far as the objectives are concerned, it certainly is an important objective for us as for the SVM parliamentary group, which contains, indent 2 in the part that regulates the objectives, which is respect for human and minority rights in the legislative process. The motion for a resolution speaks only of human rights but we have had the opportunity to hear that this formulation will change, or be complemented by minority rights, and in that sense we support it. On the other hand, indent 6 in this section discusses the problem of mutual discrepancies between individual laws, i.e. the need to avoid colitis when law is passed, which is also one of the most important goals that we welcome. As for the principles for us, perhaps the most important principle in indent 9 relating to the determination of future ones is the law and other regulations. This principle implies avoiding possibilities for different interpretations, i.e. for different implementations in the practice of certain laws, i.e. certain parts of the law, which is unfortunately in many cases or opportunities in life in Serbia. The part relating to this, I called the catalog of the problem, i.e. the lack of the current legislative process. There's a lot of stuff in there. The first indent speaks of legislative plans, the need for legislative plans to be respected, met, etc. I think there would be room for more significant changes, given that, in the legal act, legislative plans do not exist for me. Now let me explain what I'm talking about. So as for those laws stemming from the European integration process, they are included in the national integration programme and it is undeniable. However, the programme has not been fully met for years, and the programme or plan contains quarterly obligations to pass laws, but it is a minor problem. We can accept this as an existing legislative plan, but, in view of all other laws that do not stem from the obligation to comply with EU law, I have not seen a legislative plan, which has primarily been directed by the Government over the last few years to the National Assembly. I think it is a fact that, if nothing else, it is worth establishing, it is not enough to respect or comply with the legislative plan, but at least in this part, and to prescribe some obligation to make these legislative plans and to lay down, or, of course, to laws that are not included in the European integration process. Paragraph 10 speaks of a commitment, and it is an important paper to draft, or draft, laws to the National Assembly, along with drafts of sublegal acts. There is one view that this new mechanism will solve the biggest part of the problem, as far as implementation is concerned. That's all I can agree with in part. I'm going to give an example that speaks in favor of this and one example that does not contribute to this claim. The other day, the period of validity of the Lustration Act expired. The law did not provide for any sublegal acts, and for 10 years, the law was not applicable, so that the fact that the laws are delivered and the sublegal acts do not have to mean anything. Unfortunately, political will is much more important in Serbia in many cases. The example in favour of solving this part of the problem, therefore by this obligation, is the issue of reforming the media sector. In fact, when the Strategy on Media Reform was adopted, that the draft laws stemming from this strategy were also established, then surely at this point it would not discuss what to be in these drafts of the law, so this is partly a cure for some of the implementation problems, but certainly not a magic wand, as far as this problem is concerned. For us it is certainly the most important indent 11 in this part of the motion for a resolution, which deals with the hierarchy of legal norms, i.e. the need to avoid colitism. We have submitted to this part of the resolution an amendment, which is part of our amendment to this part of the resolution. Now I'd like to talk about these amendments. There is, therefore, one opinion in the professional public under which there is no hierarchy of legal regulations that this hierarchy can also be established between laws, therefore, that there is a fine hierarchy between the law. That's one opinion I think is dominant. Since that opinion exists, in many cases laws have been passed that are not in accordance with each other and between which there is cohesion and simply, if we accept this legal position that I was talking about, then there is no way to resolve that collation, because if there is no hierarchy between the laws, then you do not know which law to comply with. A few years ago, in 2009, this National Assembly passed three laws on the same day, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System and the Law on Culture, which were not in conformity with each other, i.e. the Law on Education and the Law on Culture, was not in line with the Law on National Councils. Later, the Law on Education was brought into line and the conflict was removed in that part, but the collations and the Law on Culture continue to exist today. At these years behind us, there were many opportunities, when we were trying to convince our partners, on the one hand, of the need to remove the collages, and on the other hand, in a way that would be the most comprehensive thing to do. Of course, our view is that the Law on Culture should be brought into line with the Law on National Worlds, and unfortunately so far we have failed. A few months ago, more specifically, a little less than a year ago, the Constitutional Court made an extremely important decision. The decision concerns the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina and I would not speak in that part of that decision. I'd like to talk about a part of the explanation of that decision, which is from the point of view of removing the colitis. The existence or absence of hierarchy between certain laws is extremely important. In an explanation, the Constitutional Court concluded that the laws passed by the majority of the votes of all MPs are worth, or stronger than those of the laws passed by the ordinary majority. I would like to draw attention to this Constitutional Court decision. This part of the Constitutional Court normally deals with the question of the territory of the AP, i.e. the way the issue is regulated in the Law establishing the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, but this does not matter now from that aspect. It is important because of the fact that simply the Constitutional Court has taken the view that there is a hierarchy between the laws. For this reason, according to us, it is a clear obligation of the National Assembly to comply with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. If that's the case, then we come to our amendment. The essence of our amendment is one invitation to the National Assembly to treat this situation and all other similar situations in the future in a manner consistent with the Constitution and consistent with the position of the Constitutional Court. So, unfortunately, as we understand it, this part of our amendment is not or will not be accepted. What is little to us incomprehensible on the one hand, as part of the amendment can be accepted, on the other hand, why we did not discuss this issue at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at this session. I think it was a place to discuss this issue. There's another argument why it was important to do it that way. If this argument is accepted, then there can be no reason why our amendment cannot be accepted as a whole. If the Constitutional Affairs Committee, and I am sure it considers that it considers more important decisions of the Constitutional Court and respect for those decisions, or the positions of the Constitutional Court, then I see no reason why the entire amendment cannot be accepted. As for the lack of a motion for a resolution, I would now move on to that part, I was partly talking about it. So what I am missing is some concrete steps, some concrete measures based on which we could measure the range of this resolution within a year. So the resolution says that the National Assembly and the Government will monitor the implementation of this resolution, that's good and that's important, but it will be very difficult to monitor the implementation of this resolution if the objectives are defined in such a general way. I think that if anything else, at least in some key issues, it was good that this resolution also contained some changes to some legally binding acts, on which basis it would later be possible to determine whether something had been achieved with this resolution. I'm going to list two, three examples that may be radical and strange at first sight, but certainly these examples are similar to proving what I'm talking about. For example, we have found in common that the legislative plan generally does not exist in Serbia. What would be the measure to correct this flaw? For example, by amending the Government Act, by prescribing the government's obligation to submit a legislative plan to the National Assembly by 1 January each year. Besides, there could be sanctions unless it's done. For example, no draft law stemming from the government could be put on the agenda of the National Assembly until this plan reaches the Assembly. This would be one mechanism that would make the National Assembly much more efficient in planning its work in relation to current practice. We could do a few things by amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For example, limit the possibility of bringing the debate together under a number of laws. I don't think it's generally a good option, but joining eight, nine points, it just shouldn't be made possible. Once amended by the Rules of Procedure, it could be said that maximum three points of the agenda can be combined, and then many of the objectives and many of the principles of this Resolution could be much more effective in respecting and monitoring. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly could provide for the obligation to wait, for example, 30 days, not one day before reaching the agenda of the National Assembly. It may be another period, but some mechanism, that simply this number of emergency procedures is not a practice rather than an exception to the work of the National Assembly. I say it one more time, it's just some examples. Some may be exaggerated, but certainly that part of the resolution that would refer to certain specific things, that part of the resolution I miss. From what I've said in the end, I want to conclude that our commitment to support, or not to support this motion for a resolution, depends on our key amendment, and that is why we will finally define ourselves. All the goals and principles we accept with this fence that I have put forward regarding the lack of concrete measures, or steps to enable ourselves to determine the effects of this Resolution at the end of a year. That goes for a later period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18250	Thank you. Mr Svetislav Bulajic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18251	I am reporting as one of the signatories of this motion for a resolution. On behalf of my MP club, I express my support. I also report to the previous speaker, especially the fact that something that may not be particularly interesting to the public at first sight may be debated, perhaps not clear. I am also inspired by these books that I keep in front of me, because this is a question that people are serious about both in the world and in parallel law, as we are about us. I am holding before me a manual on legal formalities issued by the Federal Justice Ministry in the Federal Republic of Germany, so since it seems at first glance that these are only formal and general issues, which directly arises from the previous discussion, I feel the need to clarify some things. When it comes to Resolution as a general act, therefore, there is not much opportunity to set concrete requirements, and especially not if I understand the previous colleague correctly, to amend the existing legal rules. So this is a kind of act that detects problems and tries in some way to express some kind of concern for the perceived problems and to mention very modestly some of the recommendations that are really in their character general, as is the very character of the Resolution as a general legal act of the Assembly. What is very important in this is that the most crucial problem that has been seen is, but it is indeed at the level of the appeal, the fact that there is no coherent legislative plan in Serbia, that it is neither published nor presented to the Assembly, which implies that, in this sense, the co-operation of the National Assembly and the Government is in many ways uncertain, ad hoc and verse. Although it seems at first glance that the synchronisation is perfect, even if the government and the Assembly are concerned, they understand it as the majority's relations in a democratic society. This is not always the case and this has led to huge problems in relation to the harmonisation of the legal order, the hierarchy of legal acts, which has already been discussed and the political responsibility for the validity of adopted legislative policies. There must be one general, clear. It may be seen in some ways, but unfortunately this is not the case in the prime minister's exposé when the government is drawn up, but it is not as in the similar legal systems, that it is practically a legislative work programme, which is an example in the United States or in some other systems. What is also the reason why we support this Resolution is also the fact that there are both insufficient knowledge and insufficient skills when it comes to improving the quality of the legislative process which, of course, implies a lot of things, from what seems to be a very general thing, which is strengthening the rule of law, raising the level of legal certainty, consistent respect for the principle of the division of power, which does not imply the division of power that there is no co-operation in it. I particularly underline that, especially when it comes to the relations between the Assembly and the Government. What is still very important is that there is one concrete thing why this resolution is necessary, and this is because we are in this action to bring legal regulations into line with EU liquids and there is a lot of work to do. There are also misunderstandings, somewhere and misunderstandings, and the principles that the motion for a resolution points to in this respect are indeed formulated from the aspect of efficiency, efficiency, economics and proportionality of the procedure and so on. I would take advantage of the opportunity to stay on some of the things that Resolution sees, because it's very general. So, if we are already talking about the hierarchy of legal acts of law among ourselves, which was also said, we need to establish that the laws determine only basic social issues and that in this sense it is necessary to standardise things and that the detailed determination of things in our laws has become something that is common, which is in some way contrary to the logic of the general legal act, because it is also going to be a rather broad way to give public authority to various actors in this process, and it should be more restrictively laid down, in order for that responsibility, which I have talked about a little more effectively and to take over, and to carry out, in the future and to carry out the consensus for it if necessary. The things we've been seeing and the things we've been seeing all the time, and here we have yesterday had opportunities in that marathon session to see what the problem is in our own habits, our unifications, the mergers of a large number of laws that are on the agenda, the inability to apply sublegal acts that will speak a little more clearly about what the intentions are when the law is passed. If that's not possible, sometimes it's really not possible for these sublegal acts to be done at some point, even if it's not an opportunity to do it formally, and most often we don't respect it. Some examples have already been made. What's very striking since I've been an MP is that the bill's proposals are generally adopted according to emergency procedures. This is also very bad from the perspective of transparency in the process and participation of the public in defining legislative policies, and in that sense simply irrevocably calls for very frequent amendments and additions to the rules, and in this sense sometimes also Galimatias in the regulations, which even legal professionals find difficult to dissipate. That is why we advocate something that is part of the resolution, which is that it is indeed beginning to prepare the official consolidated texts of the law and, more importantly, some official explanations of the provisions. We have the possibility to automatically interpret the laws as Parliament, and I think that this is something that we need to deal with a little more seriously, so that we don't constantly rely on decisions of the Constitutional Court which, in a hierarchy that exists within the order, implies and implies finality, obligation and enforcement of decisions, but does not necessarily mean reducing our business, cutting our business, the economics of the process, let alone continuous monitoring of the adoption and application of the regulations. We also advocate continuous professional training, both in the congregation and in the legislative and legislative process. What is particularly important to us is that we point to the basis that this resolution provides throughout a series of known and respected anti-corruption measures, and one of them would be and I think it's high time, we've already talked about it on various other occasions and at various seminars, for the adoption of lobbying laws, which we're increasingly behind. With the support of the resolution, with the promise that we will also consider the proposed amendments and, if possible, not only consider them but also adopt them, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18252	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a chance to make this debate more interesting. Simply, when you have an opponent for those who make a decision or regulation, it's certainly more interesting. Here is a basic question – should this resolution be proposed or not? I'll try it on two sides to light up. On the one hand, purely content, when it comes to this text, where there are a number of declared objectives, a series of principles declared and a few instructions that this resolution gives, and all in order to improve the legislative process, if we look at a set of these sentences and articles and look at them isolatedly, each for ourselves, objectively speaking – it is difficult to agree with many of these views. Because they're in most of this text of general character and practically indisputable character. It is coming from this fact that many of these findings, wishes, goals or principles that are given here are indisputable character and that they are even implying in the parliamentary democratic order that wants to develop its legislative activity, then even the question is asked – and what is the engine, what is the energy that will push all these activities and promote legislative action? Is that the National Assembly Resolution? Why would I ask that? Because it is not disputed that there are perceived shortcomings in the legislative process, that there is a certain chaos both in the way regulations are applied and in regulation, in the way they are adopted. The question arises – what is this moment now, the moment from which we are going to fix it all and why is it all going to be better with us? Is that the National Assembly Resolution? I'm expressing a very open suspicion that's the case. Because if something had been problematic in this sphere so far, I don't see any basis why it would now, based on the adoption of such a text, why would all of a sudden make it very much better? Another thing that is causing suspicion here, at least as far as DSS MPs and one part of the public are concerned, which I hope will in time be much stronger to articulate, because so far it has not been the task of the political elite in Serbia to even look for the articulation of that second opinion, at least when it comes to the EU or Serbia's relationship with the EU, that is the second part of the text which, as we see it, is also a motivational factor in adopting this resolution. It represents its main motive, which is to confirm its commitment to Eurointegration and that the legislative process is practically carried out in a sign of Eurointegration and to highlight the need to bring our country's rules in line with the rules or, as it says here, the EU's legal standards. Why is that problematic? It is simply because this is not a position on the need for harmonisation of regulations with the EU for a better life or better economic co-operation with the EU, but is part of the same permanent, always repeated stories of self-integration, as a political process in which everything must be uniform and everything must be retapped from that package that the EU gives, starting from the 1993 Copenhagen conditions to today, forgetting that the Copenhagen conditions, as far as Serbia is concerned, have long been overcome. Not because we have met the Copenhagen requirements, but because there are higher conditions, both formal and informal, than Copenhagen conditions for Serbia in order to become a member of the EU at all. In order to get a date for the continuation of the negotiations and in general to start negotiations with the EU on possible membership, you can see that it was necessary, at least so interpreted by the current authorities, to conclude a Brussels agreement that practically denies Serbia's statehood in the part of its territory. Of course, implementation is now taking place, and after that there are a dozen other informal controls on the process that are practically and directly affecting the status of the Serbian state itself. It is a new relationship, a completely new quality of relations with the EU that we have in the past few years, which is this time and formalised by the EU, which, according to us, Serbia's EU membership makes impossible a mission or a possible mission, provided that Serbia disowns itself. So it's now a formal environment in which we act. Then what's our goal? What should be our goal in legislative policy? Our goal should really be to improve legislative policy and really improve in line with many of these principles mentioned here. But when it comes to synchronising relations, as the resolution says in one of its provisions, it is: "planning and coordinating and consulting the public and analysing the effects of the legislation in the legislative process and harmonising with the legal assets of the EU", instead of "corresponding to the legal assets of the EU", it is much better to take over the currents of European legislation that give serious and good results in its environment. It is much better to apply good experience, harmonize that part of Serbia's legislation even with EU legislation if it will help Serbia in the perspective of choosing good ways of co-operation and possible ways of co-operation, in mutual interest with the same EU as a non-member, as someone outside the EU, to open the maximum freedom for Serbia so that it can work in a smooth and extremely free way with everyone and to define in this co-operation according to the elements of strict economic usefulness for Serbia, without any pre-determined frameworks, translated into norms, through negotiations and without the need to pay the political price or price of its own state for formal membership in one organisation. Is this possible what I'm talking about? Is that what Serbia is discussing? No, I don't. Are we with the DSS trying to set this up as a topic for discussion? Yeah. But apparently because of enormous pressure without success. The question here is not whether we are "for" or "against" the EU, but whether we are "for" or "against" Serbia's own state. After that, we'll see how things continue to develop. Let's go now to the text of the Resolution itself. This was an opportunity, one of the few opportunities for MPs to submit an act and we always welcome it. There are too many documents that are being adopted in the National Assembly, too many draft laws that come from the government. I know it's an established and constitutional, normal procedure, but some kind of initiative should also be shown by MPs. In that sense, we consider this to be the ultimate and greatest range of this proposal, unfortunately. As for other things, I'm going to point out certain logical shortcomings in this text or some kind of excess of this text, which, simply, can't go west by the eye, and I'm sorry that these confronted so far are praised, but that must be said. In the first part of the resolution itself, skipping the opening norms, it is said that the objectives of legislative policy, among other things, are strengthening the rule of law. Let's comment on that right now. The rule of law in Serbia is a constitutional category and the obligation to strengthen the rule of law is in this home, in the executive authorities and in courts. So it's an indisputable fact. It's an undeniable moment. Do we need to make a resolution of the National Assembly to point out that our goal is to strengthen the rule of law? Keep going. One of the following objectives is to ensure full legal certainty, protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. I agree. Minority rights should be added. But is the way to go in full security of full legal certainty, the protection of human and minority rights, the adoption of a resolution of the National Assembly on this, or should this be an undisputed constitutional objective of the functioning of state bodies, including the legislative body? Let's move on. It says – a consistent respect for the principle of division of power. Oh, no, you don't. So if we do not do so, then we are working against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which very clearly sets out the principles of the division of power in the parliamentary system, which has one softer form because the President of the Republic is elected directly by citizens, but it is compensated by the relatively small powers of the President of the Republic. That's clear stuff. Why the resolution, the special resolution of the National Assembly on that? Keep going. It says - ensuring full consistency of the balance of public policies, as well as their consistent implementation. I'd really like to ask, later on, if he wants to, if he wants to, that the motionary's representative would explain this sentence to me. Ensuring stability and predictability of regulatory requirements. I don't see what's going on here, and I don't see why a resolution on the stability and predictability of regulatory requirements would be passed. Full respect for hierarchy and mutual compliance of regulations. Oh, no, you don't. But by the time the resolution was brought here, it must have been a complete inconsistencies and disrespect for the hierarchy. If it is, and in part it may be, so now because of this sentence that stands in the resolution, which will be published in the Official Messenger, we will suddenly have respect for the hierarchy of regulations and their compliance. And so on, I'm not wasting my time on this right now. Let's go to principles. One of the interesting principles here is the principle of necessity, which it says – means that the regulation is only adopted when necessary. How else? Is it necessary to adopt a resolution of the National Assembly in order to establish that we will adopt regulations when necessary, since so far we have adopted only when not necessary, or have all the other regulations that have been passed been completely vain and unnecessary? In our view, the text of the resolution itself is in contradiction with this principle. So this resolution is not necessarily adopted. In this resolution, we call for one of the important legislative principles, the principle of necessity. If we're honest with each other, let's withdraw the text of the resolution, take a vow, make a commitment that the goals that are declared here will be implemented in reality. Or, I have no idea which other way to do this. It can be a declaration, it doesn't have to be a resolution. If you think this is going to pull a mandatory force, for political elite actors who are in power at some point, we're wrong about that. On the other hand, when most, which is obviously quite secure, adopt this text, believe me, and we who belong to the DSS and citizens who support our policy and those who will support it in the future, hopefully much more than today, we will be watching with attention how the current government and some government in the future, or we ourselves commit that as future government, we will certainly respect certain principles that appear here. Let's move on. The principle of effectiveness says – implies that the problems observed are regulated. Great. He says the regulation is applicable. That's what the principle of efficiency says. Be careful, this is a top-notch start that needed consultations with Odiro, the OSCE, domestic experts, including everything and all the great strain of brains in the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it came to the conclusion that if we adopt a regulation, it must be applicable. How can we have something against it? We can't. We can't have anything against it. Do we have to make a resolution to do so in the future? If we have to, then we're the poor ones. We have here and the principle of economics, that's good and it's not controversial. The principle of proportionality states – it implies that the burdens it imposes are burdens on citizens, organisations, legal persons, etc., that they are meaningful and justified. You know, in this House there are MPs, most often from the opposition, it doesn't matter which political party they belong to, we almost had such discussions here in the National Assembly two days ago, where we just pointed out when tax laws were at stake, that there are certain burdens for citizens who are not at all necessary, who are not meaningful and who are not justified or just. Did that help you? It's not. Now that we adopt this resolution, we'll probably get into a situation where when the government delivers the law to the National Assembly, so there are burdens that are not meaningful, which are not justified, then perhaps the Government, if so, you interpret those who have submitted this, will have an obligation to this resolution to adopt our amendments. Let's just see that thing, and we'll be amazed. We have two groups of proposals here, or two groups of guidelines. One speaks of the need to regulate, or address the problems and their causes of a particular area, the starting point and concept of the law, the launch and flow of the legislative process, the consultation, the public debate of the relevant participants, etc., but nowhere is mentioned, nor in the previous principles, the principle of debate. The public, it's fine. And what about the scene that happened the day before yesterday at the National Assembly, when for who knows which way do the agenda points that are not compatible? If the resolution would help keep this from happening anymore, fine. But you didn't see that coming here. Not at all. Not here. There's no word on that. Why? Because there's no compromise on that. It is easy to find a compromise on the fact that important laws are being debated by the hills, in haste, to combine incompatible things, etc. It can and it's fine. It says this - to ensure that domestic legislation is brought into line with EU law, a dynamic that enables them to meet their commitments, in line with real needs and opportunities, to ensure consistency with the Constitution and mutual coherence. Be careful, we've already told the EU. I want us to understand each other and make that perfectly clear. We are not against the fact that certain regulations in Serbia, for which there is a need, because of presumed or current co-operation, particularly in economic terms, with EU or EU members, are to some extent harmonised and that a kind of harmonisation is made, because without it in an economic sense, we cannot function with the first neighbour. But to make it a political goal to use expressions such as legal fluids, to talk here completely artificially about compliance with the Constitution, which violates the Constitution in various ways, starting with those regulations of the government on agreements from last year to the latest agreement between Belgrade and Pristina, which is a direct violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then it is amazing that we are calling here for compliance with the Constitution. Then ultimately, it becomes a measure of what should be done in this sense and it is now unnecessary for discussion, because if true compliance with the Constitution is set as a goal, then it is clear that some measures should be taken, but these measures draw their strength from the Constitution and draw their strength from the political will that the Constitution is respected as the highest legal act of a state, and cannot be overlooked from the Resolution of the National Assembly. I understand all the efforts and the need for certain international organisations to do a certain job, to come up with certain solutions, to be very comparative here. I understand all of this, but I don't understand the need to in one way and in some way manifest clear things that should be our obligation from day to day without any such paper in this way belittle us. Of course, as far as the EU is concerned, our position here is decadent and clear. We think that Serbia must achieve another quality of relations with the EU in the future, and that this non-quality of relations, in this blackmailing policy, this trail of events that not only destroys the state of Serbia in terms of its integrity, but also the economy of the Serbian state, which will soon be seen, starting with a unilateral application of the SAA, so you will see for yourself if these negotiations ever begin and if you ever get a date on what they will look like and what will be asked of Serbia, so we will see who was right there. It would be best to turn to our needs and interests and to talk to those with whom we speak and cooperate on national grounds, not on the basis of political beliefs, political flossules, ideological principles, but on the basis of the principle of usefulness for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18254	National MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18255	I didn't expect it. I thought there were priors. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from previous discussions, but also from the way this resolution was prepared and came to the National Assembly session, it is clear, on the one hand, that there is an obvious principle agreement. Even someone said, I think, Mr. Varga, that a resolution like this should have been brought 10 years ago. I guess it's a really nice metaphor that comes out of the fact that so much of what's being collected in Resolution, and what's undeniable, actually didn't work in the previous years, not on the fact that it was really possible 10 years ago... For formal reasons, as you know, it wasn't possible. It was the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. But why am I saying this? Because, in addition to this fact, it will be quite certain that all parliamentary groups will vote in favour of this resolution because it has been proposed by the members of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, the other fact is, and that is what we heard in previous discussions, which is that this resolution only reveals what did not work in the previous period, or that Mrs Bulajic clearly said, where there was no knowledge and where there was no skill to go around where it was not better. I always get scared when I see that all MPs are voting for something because then it means either the naked principle and giving thanks, and in this case, when this resolution is already in question, you can read it, it is important that it is put, which gives thanks to the institutions, whose international assistance, whose organizations, primarily the GIZ, the OSCE, and by Mr Mikovic, whom we have authorised to be the promoter, and I thank him for that, are also numbered some of the specific names of people who helped not to miss any of the principles. But those are the principles. We need to know that this resolution is no longer a principle. I'm a little worried when we remind ourselves that there is practice, above all, in this House which is contrary to the basic principles of this resolution. A whole series of Rules of Procedures... When we talk about an illustration, I think it should, it should be a moral gesture, not to participate in any more discussions or voting for such resolutions of people who participated in the creation of a Rules of Procedure that is currently in force. This would best be defined according to what would ethically be part of the engagement of MPs. Finally, the provisions of this resolution are being violated at the moment. I went through the Little Hall of the National Assembly, so I walked into this room. It discusses the information the Ministry of Culture has, and the legal obligation and the whole series of ministries has to periodically endure it, it has. That's activity information. In this information, it says, people are discussing it as if it were serious, that the Ministry of Culture did not receive a reply from the Ministry of Finance who pays VAT, which is why it did not give any funding to users, nor did the competition call for the largest network of cultural institutions in RS territory. Is it possible to expect the Ministry of Finance to tell them who pays the VAT? The Assembly considers that information. I guess in the end, the Committee will vote. If such things exist, what about a whole series of problems that have been pointed out as a consequence of this resolution. Of course, they can't be concrete measures put into the resolution because then it's starting up a whole series of sweaters, as you say, because if you specify a few concrete measures then you'd come into a situation that you didn't list and then it's going, and the help was great, to find that formula that actually covers the possibility of such measures. It's not a guarantee. Resolution is not a guarantee. This is easy work. Do you know how Nikola Pasic used to speak? He says: "When a straw falls in the congregation, and I've made sure of it 100 times, all MPs jump to help get away, and when a big log falls, then everyone escapes, and only Laza Paca and I remain on the left hand side of the congregation. That's the way it is with every big problem. There is no EU report that has not found that there is a major problem with laws that come under the name of urgency. That's the principle. We, of course, because of the second principle of efficiency, whatever assembly of the Assembly was at stake, the need for coordination, which internally, which the external needs of the entire set of laws, accept the explanation of urgency, but then we find ourselves in the situation as it was yesterday and the day before, that on the one hand you have laws that have entered the procedure by emergency procedure, by the way, be it just the amendments to the law. You have a reunion, and it is said, because of the need to consider laws as effective as possible, and then you have a non-sension, that most of the MPs present vote that all these laws, which were previously voted to enter by emergency procedure, are considered for efficiency purposes, twice as much as the budget of the Republic of Serbia, when adopted in this same session. Can such things be removed from the resolution? Of course he can't. A whole series of such irregularities, which occur in the agenda of a call, cannot be removed, but there is one very important thing. We have to make this resolution, because we have to periodically, like any serious business that's part of the process, occasionally stop, count what we're doing and what we need to do, what we need to do, when it comes to the legal system, for survival. As in households, not only do generations change, so someone else inherits to manage the household, but simply change the conditions, change the environment, and periodically meet all the parts of the household and tell us what we need to do for survival. If we're going to cut first, if we're going to dig first, if we're going to equip the winery first, at the usual job, to get at the end what the principle is, which is that you have wine that you say is true, although it has alcohol in it. It is also true when we talk about such resolutions, because we actually have to remind ourselves of everything we need to do and therefore we have to, and we thank you, to get help, huge help, continuous assistance in several calls for parliaments, because of course, we are in a situation that we live in society and it was a discussion about one amendment, that you have to insert an amendment that does not say – respects the law, but says – respects and implements. In Serbia when it says - I respect, respect and move on, as if the Constitution is something that is being agreed on at Zemun, so you respect and move on. By the way, first principle, the first position of the first member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges us to European values. It's binding. It does not exclude any state authority. Will this in practice prevent those who voted for the Constitution, I speak personally, not partyly, and who voted in favour of a resolution that precedes that, the Association Resolution, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in October 2004, from speaking against these values? Well, she won't, it's their political need and she's legitimate. There's a problem. If you do not respect Article 1 then it is easy not to notice that Article 5 is not respected, and this member is most strictly prohibiting political parties from doing certain things. Do I need to quote you what that article says? Turn around today. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, two years ago, three years ago, and you will see to what extent that member is at risk. So, the first members of the principle of the Constitution, on what is the division of power, on what are obligations and on what is most strictly forbidden. Ladies and gentlemen, these resolutions, especially in times, which is the time of this call, when in a year only one system law is, if we exclude the budget, so really, systematically, proposed, discussed and adopted, for understandable reasons of a whole series of amendments and additions, this resolution may be, if it is to be discussed by other than the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, I hope not, because it would seem rather unserious, but if it will, then it should have been a special session. You've seen how many days off there are within this conference. Perhaps in this way we could individually serve as the basis for cases of violations, which have already been observed, of these principles, which did not need this resolution. I speak of the existence of the principle, I do not speak in violation, because, of course, as in the preamble of this resolution it writes, but as foreseen by the Constitution, it is envisaged by a whole series of obligations that the state of Serbia has made, but are foreseen by the basic legal principles, which are undeniable. I'm not talking, I'm sorry Mr. Varga came out, about the reasons. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are not discussed. Reasons are being discussed. There's one explanation with an explanation, which is cute and looks convincing, but it's actually legally unsustainable. That wasn't even the objective of the Constitutional Court. It clearly lists only a series of impressions and legal assumptions, which led to the adoption of an act. Therefore, no additional obligation already stems from the fact that the legal system in the Republic of Serbia is unique can arise. That's what the Constitution says. We do not need an explanation of the Constitutional Court's decision, so that we would have to propose, in accordance with this, the corrections of those laws that violate this unity, or that are in dissension with it. I would like to reduce the enthusiasm that will seem to exist only at the moment of this resolution's vote. The serious work of all people, who have tried to count the principles, bodies and bodies that would have to take care of the legislative policy, means proposing, adopting, implementing the law, will disappear by the end of the vote. We must be aware of that unless, from a place where the vice president is sitting, from a place where each of the present MPs sits, and not here, where more frequent political messages are sent, than those that go in favour of legislative policy, but on committees, but just in the preparation of the law, in the writing of amendments, in the functioning and organisation of the work of the National Assembly, if these principles are neglected. We have to take a whole series of things to make this resolution, which is a kind of cry, and we have to say, the cry over the fact that several calls for congregations in their work, that several mandates of different governments, the District Assembly, the work of regulatory bodies, are neglected in the previous period of the basic assumption, on which the Constitution, laws, principles, democracy in Serbia rests. If we don't hear that warning, it's completely pointless that everyone will vote for Resolution. It is much more important, therefore, that in the next period, not only this call, but also the next ones, try to write down in these general principles that are listed in the resolution what should be done to them. Whatever you think, whatever political assumptions, that will really mean what I said at the beginning, our survival. That's what we should do for survival, and that's what I wanted to tell you today. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18256	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18257	Thank you. The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, following these discussions that preceded, is one conclusion that this resolution is really necessary. It is really necessary that it becomes, whether we want it or not, an integral part of our political and parliamentary culture and parliamentary life. Without it, it seems to me that the essence of this resolution is not understood, no matter how much it contests it. I must point out the importance of the resolution from another aspect. This resolution is not as important to us as it is important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who will be able to monitor, participate and control Parliament's work through this resolution in the legislative policy and in getting to know the objectives of the resolution. Let this be the first message and that political message sent by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group from today's session of the Republika Srpska Assembly to citizens. The objectives that the Legislative Policy Resolution aims to achieve are, in my deep confidence, two aspects of interpretation – legal and political. That's how they're supposed to be watched. From a legal point of view, the legislative policy is implemented through a procedure that implies rules by which laws are passed, and from the political aspect of the political party through the adoption of the law, they send political messages to citizens, with the aim of obtaining public opinion, or as they are said in a pesorative manner - sympathy for their political views. I agree that the systematicisation of the objectives in the resolution could have been different, but it is undoubtedly comprehensive. I also believe that all eleven objectives achieved by the resolution in the legislative policy, and they deserve a specific and individual comment, can be sublimed to three objectives that are mutually engulfed. First, strengthening the rule of law through strengthening the legislative process. Second, building a democratic society through strengthening democratic processes and third, standardisation of legislation with European Union legislation, as conditions for entry into the European Union, however much someone disputed or favored it. It's something we're expecting, it's something we need, and it's something we're trying to do in everything we're doing. Let's start with the rule of law, as one of the basic postulates of democracy and, considering our work, the rules under which the legislative process is being implemented in Serbia, especially the participation of citizens in the legislative process, evaluate how close we are to or how far away we are from the rule of law, or from democratic society. I am sure that this very resolution will strengthen the democratic processes we are carrying out, so that we will be as close to the rule of law as possible, but also to other postulates of democracy, which is why we would leave it here, to say, among other things, respect for human and minority rights, the equality of freedom, and especially the postulate that is called – the ban on any kind of discrimination. However, if this were not just a populist story now, the question arises – how do these goals be achieved? First of all, through the transparency of the legislative process, strengthening legal certainty and respect for the principles of the division of powers into judicial, executive and legislative power. The participants of the legislative process are undoubtedly not just us and should finally remove that prejudice that, only the MPs and political parties to whom the MPs belong, create a legislative policy. The prejudice of citizens, including the work of MPs, must definitely be removed. There are many actors in the process of passing laws, from proposings to legislators, but in this process citizens are always under-represented. This is something to deal with and what needs to be addressed in an adequate way, because citizens are the ones to whom laws are most direct and related. There is not enough public debate on legal proposals for citizens to animate and engage in the legislative process. There are not enough websites on which laws are published. Even day-to-day policy in this direction does not produce the necessary results, because day-to-day policy does not update the essence and objectives of the law, in which way citizens deliberately or intentionally, because of political views or something else, are distanced from the legislative process itself. This is why all aspects of public and other advertising need to point to the currentity of the law. It is necessary that not only MPs recognize this topic, i.e. We who will later improve the law by quality, any amendments, or discussions, need to be familiar with it, in order to include the Republic of Serbia in its legislative process rightly manifested the transparency of the legislative process. Only in this way can it affect citizens to participate in law-making. Strengthening legal certainty must be a priority of all the priorities in the legislative process, and the full contribution of MPs to the implementation of this priority must simply be in quality laws. However, a quality law would remain a mere phrase if it did not show what needs to be done in lawmaking. The legislator of the law in legislative practice, which is most often the government through the resolution ministries, must give as clear as possible, as comprehensively as possible, more specific and precise a proposal for the law. In order to achieve this, it is necessary for the working groups that draft the laws to be primarily professional and competent people and criteria for membership in such working groups to be exclusively their professional reference, professional experience and ethical values. In no case shall the criteria for the completion of the working groups for the making of the laws be determined by policy, political party membership or political definitions. It is only after that that comes to what I just tried to point out, and it is a broad public debate that must not only be reduced to professional debates, it must not only be reduced to round tables, it must not be reduced to working groups only, because it is a very small circle of those who are participating in this way in the legislative process. This view of broader public opinion, as a participant of the legislative process, must be far more adequate and comprehensively resolved. This particular part of the populus or plebs must be represented in the legislative procedure. When the draft law is completed and the draft law enters the assembly procedure, we MPs are obliged to preserve the essence and purpose of the law. The amendments may have an effect on improving its quality. However, it seems to me that our parliamentary culture and our parliamentary manners are not in that spirit, that it prevails and overcomes political vanity, and even personal vanity, where much is not achieved even by amendments, but we are now separate from the essence and goal of the law, where we should be unique for these very reasons, we are unequivocal. Instead of making sure that the law is such that there is no multiple interpretation of the law, but a single interpretation of the law, we are just contributing to the opposite in a series of cases. We can't let them bring the so-called. ad hoc or post-festum laws. Why? Simply because the principle of the necessity of the law is exactly one of the determining factors, what law should be, one that is necessary and practically applicable to a particular situation. If that is not the case, then we are falling away from the essence and objective of the legislative process itself. It seems to me that even in the process of educating the MPs, much more has to be done, although so far, much has been done. In that direction, I will join my colleagues, who thanked and presented the extent to which two organizations helped us to get here where we are right now, and that is the adoption of this resolution, these are GIZ and OSCE organisations, through two decisions. One is a study on improving the legislative process in Serbia, and another is an analysis of the drafting of legislation in the legislative process, no matter how marginalised it is, these are two documents that are and how important it is for our work and exactly what we want to do in this way. Some criticism has been highlighted here in relation to the principles that have been declared here. I don't see places for these criticisms because these principles are simply something that is in the domain of universal principles and something that is impossible not to accept, something that is an integral part of both the Constitution and the law and sublegal acts, or the entire legal system. Which is why we should criticise principles, such as the principle of economicism, which implies that we have to bear in mind that when the law is passed, we do not slave to a large administration, that the law-making process is as effective as possible, as I said, it is necessary for the area in which the law is applied. If so, and no doubt so, then this principle is an absolutely undeniable principle and cannot experience any kind of criticism. Not even the other principles that are mentioned here have absolutely no other meaning than the importance that the legal texts, which we create and which we influence, contribute to improving the quality of the law. Finally, I would just like to point out something that implies the obligation of ourselves, of all the MPs, and that is the obligation for MPs to be perfectly educated for what means the essence of our actions, and that is participation in the legislative process, where we do it in practice. I, as a lawyer, would have to be familiar with all the legal texts of the laws that are passed, because law violations generally experience the same epilogue, which is a judicial epilogue. But it does not release any MP's obligation to be familiar with the legal text in an adequate manner, so that he can take part in the debate. In order to be able to take part in the debate, it is necessary to collect certain knowledge from the point of view of the profession, from the point of view of science, to collect certain information from the locals or, as it is said, local self-government, from cities and municipalities, from citizens seeking to pass laws, to arrange a part of their life in a better and better way. It's our role, it's our function, and it's supposed to be an integral part of one of the principles of this resolution that we're adopting today. I ask all MPs, regardless of the 25 signatories of the motion for adoption of this resolution, we are all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, that indeed from this aspect which implies one positive approach to the legislative process, we look at all that is stated in the resolution and that in the day to vote we support this resolution, or vote, because it will undoubtedly contribute to improving the legislative process in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18258	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18259	Thank you. The resolution of the National Assembly on Legislative Policy is a text, act, a strategic document with several aspects, so I will try to keep your attention in an attempt to contribute to what is written in the act, and to the understanding of all those who listen to us, and why are we now talking and making a resolution in the National Assembly on Legislative Policy? First, the very word of the resolution, along with the declaration, is an act expressing complete awareness of what an area should look like in the future. Based on the resolution, it works, as well as on the declaration. I would remind you that several documents with that name, which produced root, non-refundable and revolutionary changes both in domestic and global legislation, a declaration of human rights, human rights and human and human freedoms brought to the public in 1948, formed the second half of the 20th century, brought by the UN. The resolution of Informburo, which was brought into the work of organisations, not institutional, but between political parties and our response to that resolution shaped 50 years of one region, our life as one-party without freedom, but soft socialism. The EU's accession resolution, adopted by the Assembly in October 2004, has determined what Serbia will look like for us and for all who come after us. Resolutions are powerful documents. Every approach that what is written in the resolutions is in principle, that it does not bind anyone, is an expression of fear that the resolution will not be applied. If we have the will, the knowledge, the skills, the dialogue, that the principles, as they are written in the National Assembly resolution on legislative policy, then that same document says, let's now see what it looks like in reality. My second observation is about reality. For the last 23 years, I will try to paint a concept in which this House decides at the end of 2013 to adopt a resolution on legislative policy. I don't mention a one-party period, not because I don't think anything good has happened before 1990 in a one-party state, but what I think and I belong to that school of opinion that we can't talk about independent institutions, the division of government, the building of institutions, the integrity of MPs without a multi-party system. Therefore, it does not take into account the comparison of our perception of institutions under a single-party system in Serbia, or in the former Yugoslavia. Since the 1990s you have seen clearly through a total of nine republican elections and so many governments that lasted two and a half years on average, two governments in the nine elections had a full mandate, a government that was elected in 1997, i.e. in March 1998 and a government formed in May 2008, meaning that only two governments had a full mandate for 23 years, and as far as the Assembly is concerned, you can see very clearly the context of the work of our institution in two periods - the period of the 1990s and the period after 2000. I'm not worth any of the other periods, I'm just describing. I'm calling the 1990s period without institutional dialogue. Nothing that mattered in our country happened in the Assembly, it happened on the street. The dialogue did not exist in the institution, there were only perceptions of one taking the forest, one road. You had processes in Serbia that diverged. Hard times, very hard times and very bad times for institutions because they didn't take away anyone's power to really make decisions. The interest of that period, for example, is that you had no perception of the Assembly at that time and of the legislative activity of the Assembly at that time about the expenses of MPs and travels. Every time we hear demagogue comments about how much the Assembly costs, please remember the 1990s, we didn't have any expenses because we couldn't travel anywhere. I don't know what we saved for those ten years. With a little cynic joke, it's still irresistible to make a note. Why wasn't there a talk about the funding the Assembly has or doesn't have, about the budgets? Because it wasn't discussed. The topics which were not the contents of the institutional dialogue in the Assembly during that first period of multi-partisanism were themes of the Constitution, round tables, elections, basic freedoms and rights. The countries like us have solved it on round tables, like in Hungary, at forums, like in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland, and we have lost round tables, except for a few of them on election laws, and we have spent the 1990s without institutional dialogue. This second period marks exactly the opposite, marking the foundation of institutional dialogue and the conquest of institutional power. A large number of people, the most constantly employed in the National Assembly, held this legislative process with their knowledge, skill, loyalty, and free choice to belong to the Assembly during both the 1990s and after 2000, and the rest of us who joined the work of the Assembly after any election helped because we believe it is important for the National Assembly to win the place of power that belongs to it under the Constitution. I mentioned that I did not make comparisons with the one-party state because I also want to help with the usual comparison, in the public in particular, that the institution of the National Assembly is collapsing, that we do not pass laws that correspond to reality or that we make laws that don't apply, that we are partocratic society completely, that there is no independence of any institution and that, in short, it is popular among the various analysts of institutional work all nonsense. That is why I mention one-party, because, however little, independence, the integrity of the MPs, the integrity of this institution, the control of law enforcement, the way law is a step forward in relation to time without being able to reach dialogue through a multi-party system. I can estimate that the principles of this resolution will produce far more good consequences than anyone in this House seems. I'll just give you two examples. One example concerns sublegal acts that we lack, and another is to understand the rules that we make. Why do we even make laws, and does anyone understand what laws we make, and why do we need procedures to pass laws? Because the culture of a society is a procedure. To caricate a little, when you come across a two-ring door, if it doesn't say what's the entrance and what's the exit, you can bump into the other one. As usual, right-handed people enter the right door, and left-handed people know it's on the opposite side. The procedures and length of the procedure are what makes one society orderly. We want this resolution and the joint work to save time and the procedures to be established anyway. I will make another law to see how deficient the procedure is, that is, such a document on legislative policy is sometimes terrible, and that is the Emergency Act. For several years now, we have been looking at Mr. Predrag Marić, who is either where the fires are or where the floods are currently high in Danube waters or where there is any accident, earthquake. By the time the Emergency Law was passed, no one knew who had to go and you didn't have a procedure for who was in charge. When we talk about procedures, we need to understand that every law we bring here produces consequences for someone's life. This resolution basically speaks of it. What are our obligations, say, when we make tax laws? Here's a recent case of property tax change. In nine months, some people will get a tax solution and there instead of 6,500 to write 25,000. Then someone's going to wonder, why do I have 25,000? Our decision has produced consequences for someone's life. Yesterday we talked about changing the law from the field of education. It's a direct consequence of family and children's lives. Do these people we work for, do we have procedures that they understand will change their lives and do we have procedures that understand what our responsibility is if we don't know how some law is going to produce consequences on our lives? Another example is amendments to the Criminal Code and the adoption of Family Law. Until that moment, by 2002, the topic of domestic violence had not existed in 2005. If someone in the house beats you, it doesn't matter if you're a woman, a man, a child, if you're an old man, a mother-in-law, it doesn't matter, if you're beaten by someone in that house and harassed for years, it was a private matter, your personal accident. By establishing amendments to the law, a new value system that there is no private violence and slow, difficult, but still by applying the provisions of these laws, some people's lives change for the better. Did we know all this at the time of the adoption of, say, this law on the designation of domestic violence as a crime? Some of us are, and some of us aren't. This resolution obliges everyone to know exactly how the law will be seen, to feel as a consequence of who it refers to, from the Family Law that applies to everything, to the law of education that applies to a very large number, through criminal laws that apply only to those who are willing to commit a crime. For the reputation of the Assembly, for the reputation of the Assembly, with full consciousness, I share with you my assessment which, unfortunately, is correct, which is low. People don't trust us, people have a firm view that we're basically someone who only spends budget money and doesn't do anything. People do not see that there is no one but the MPs, amongst themselves, the haughtiness of the executive authority of any kind, that there is no one else to protect their rights, except all 250 MPs sitting in this Assembly and independent bodies and regulators, who are competent to protect their civil and human rights. If, by demeaning the importance of this Assembly and by not knowing and disrespecting the provisions of this resolution, we join, if we give in to campaigns that are conducted very clearly against what should be the National Assembly, the damage will be common and no one will win, and the greatest harm will be to the citizens of Serbia. There goes the second observation, except for these illustrations of what the National Assembly's resolution on legislative policy is actually saying. We don't have procedures for all legislators of the Constitution. We have here both observations and participation of the work and of the National Bank as a proposing on the basis of the Constitution and our jurisdiction and the Protector of Citizens and, of course, every MP and government but we do not have 30,000 voters. At present, there is an attempt to dialogue with the laws proposed by the Citizens' Protector as my colleague Vesna Marjanovic mentioned concerning the amendment and addition of the Labour Act and the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, and it applies only to children with disabilities and rare and severe diseases. There are 60,000 petitions behind that idea. This Assembly does not have a procedure for what is happening, what must happen if you are given some kind of petition, that is to say, the proposer of a mandated constitutional that proposes either law or amendment or whatever. If you're an opposition MP and you submitted a bill, you know what happens. Most will decide whether the law will come on the agenda or not, regardless of what the law says. We've passed a law amending and supplementing the arms and ammunition laws that we've asked to establish the medical supervision measure for five years for gun carriers. It's been refused. We passed the Law on nostrification diploma because there's a problem, an obvious problem, because it doesn't work, it doesn't do nostration diploma. It's been refused. I don't mind, nor do I think that as much as most would, with my resistance, there would certainly be such behaviour but I know we do it. What happens when opposition? What happens when you're a member of the ruling coalition? So, are you asking whether or not you're asking the government or doing what I would personally like to see here if we had the integrity of the MPs? When you're the patron of citizens, you know exactly if the Assembly won't accept you, you know the channels and mechanisms to fight for your proposal, if you're the National Bank too. What to do 60,000 or 30,000 citizens if the government won't even give an opinion on what their idea is, and we don't have a procedure to meet up and say something now -- let's let's people open a dialogue on it. We don't have to accept it, we don't have to put it on the agenda. Col. Milos Aligrudic mentioned that this Assembly is working as a work but is working as part of the discussion. Let's do it, it's exactly what it says in this resolution, this is a discussion, and it's working on committees. We have the power to open a dialogue with people to put it in the process with people who submit initiatives they want to discuss and then understand why we think we can't, and why maybe we can do with some changes and why we can do a little later. This indisposition to the dialogue is something that this resolution should remove from our parliamentary practice. I see the key in this resolution being applied is the integrity of the MP. The integrity of the MP implies that the Minister of the Code supports you tell him that he's doing a bad job on the board, that you tell him that it's wrong, that the damage is common. Remind him of his obligation and according to the existing Law on the National Assembly and by the Rules of Procedure and by all means. The minister who comes to the board and reads the arguments would have to have a common person of all MPs regardless of whether we come from the opposition or from the ruling majority. If we don't understand how much damage it is in common then it will only happen to repeat the mistakes of those who were in power, by having repeated mistakes have one unpleasant feature, it is bigger when you repeat it. The integrity of the MPs implies that we understand what control and supervision is when it comes to executive power, that we understand if the people of the profession, the secretaries, the employees of the Assembly, tell us, give their opinion without influence and I am infinitely grateful for everything they have shown me and learned when it comes to reading the law. If they tell you that this provision is wrong, they don't say that because they vote for your side or our side, they say that because it's part of the integrity of the Assembly. If we do not join and this is the only point of the crisis of this Resolution, if we do not join the joint building of the integrity of the MP for the implementation of this Resolution and the adoption of the ethical code and the understanding of the tasks and responsibilities of the MP, the damage will be shared again. It will be an answer to all of us who wonder why our society is unsuccessful. Because we don't have the courage to really drive everything we have at our disposal as the reasons for the success of a society. It is 250 us, it is our jurisdiction under the Constitution to jointly control and monitor the government and it is our shared responsibility to the institution and to the rule of law and above all towards people living in Serbia to explain the legislative policy, to manage it by explaining and to leave beyond any doubt how much attention, responsibility, care and thoroughness we are considering each act and thus to fight against the biggest and most difficult problems Serbia has, that is, the surface, the cremation and sloppyness that we see in places where it should not be. This Resolution has an obligation to remove all this and I am absolutely certain, testifying and participating in the work of this institution that will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18260	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have just heard from the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which is how to put it and to propose this resolution. Once again, I will take the opportunity to remind myself that out of the 31 members, the deputy member of this committee, as many as 25 signed the text of the Resolution regardless of political membership. I'll take another chance to thank GIZ, it's really unreserved support for this writing project, and now we see the adoption of the Resolution, to bring an end. I would just briefly go through the basic principles that this resolution provides and show to all of us, as well as to the citizens who are watching this which are the advantages of this Resolution. In the first place, when we say the principle of necessity, which is the first principle that the resolution foresees, that is something that may be assumed at first glance. Some MPs today have funnyly even indicated that if the law enters the procedure, it is previously found that the adoption of such a law is necessary, that the law itself is necessary. However, we must also stress that this principle implies a very important quality, which is that every law, every regulation that enters the National Assembly, should not contain unnecessary procedures and administrative costs. Our citizens have often witnessed so far that the law adopted by the National Assembly in practice implies a whole series of procedures, implies both opportunities for corruption and corruption, but definitely a situation where citizens spend a lot of time waiting for rows, and very often and needlessly, but waiting for rows in more places instead of all ending up in one place like the Office of Quick Answers. So this isn't something we're talking about. It's good for us to remind the National Assembly. It's good to remind every legislator of the law. It is good for those who write laws and propose laws to remind us that before the law is put into the congregation procedure, we can well determine what the objective of this law is and determine whether all the procedures provided for in the law are really necessary. If such a rule were respected in writing every law, I am sure that the citizens and businesses would save millions of euros, i.e. to the citizens of thousands of dinars who lose their citizens needlessly in this situation. Of course, we'll also try to make sure that wherever possible we reduce the amount of procedures, but this resolution that is binding on all of us, for all of the legislators, this resolution, so to speak, knocks. This will be published in the Official Messenger, and from now on everyone will have to keep an account. The principle of efficiency. Of course, any law that enters the congregation procedure, that is, any regulation, needs to solve certain observed problems. But what is also important in this principle, we predict that the regulation must be applicable. We've got a whole series of examples again, and I, as a former lawyer, remember a whole series of problems that the citizens had, say, with the legalization of objects. Citizens often think that laws are passed on purpose, but we also have to explain that there is a situation where simple procedures or certain rules provided for in the law are being sprayed in practice. We learned in college that life is more inventive than the legislator. Here we are right now trying to prevent future procedures that are being introduced into laws from being inadmissible. The principle of economics. Every law and every law enforcement cost. But we have to determine one ratio, which is that as much as it costs to enforce the law is far less than the benefits the law will bring. We can see a whole series of such examples in practice. The principle is proportionate. The principle which implies that no one, both citizens, and both the economy and the state authorities themselves, should be burdened when a certain law is passed above a measure that is acceptable. The principle of simplification. A very important principle that once again emerges from all of these that we have said. The principle of accessibility, to whom I would pay special attention. Recently, we have witnessed the adoption of the Law on the publication of laws and other acts, a law that is very important to our citizens, to our economy and to our partners. It is a law that predicts that soon in Serbia all regulations will be available free of charge, available on the Internet. It's something that's extremely modern. Let's just look at our neighbours, we don't have to go to the EU. Let's take a look at the Croats, they have an extraordinary website for their People's News. In Slovenia, the site of "Official List" of the Republic of Slovenia, their official messenger, has been functioning for almost a decade. Indeed, citizens will be greatly relieved and their costs will be reduced if they can go online and see for free what the laws say, as the consolidated text of the law reads. That's what this resolution predicts, to immediately create purified texts. Citizens will thus be able to reduce their costs, not have to go two, three times to work a document or to hand over certain documents. At the very end of the line, sometimes they won't have to go to either a lawyer or another legal advisor and they won't have to pay, they'll be able to read the text themselves, and in this way be aware of their rights, obligations, and how to act in the legal world, one way or another. What's interesting is that this resolution in its 8th point, the principle of accessibility, is practically already late in a certain way compared to reality. It is precisely that the Law on the publication of laws and other acts has already done what is provided for in the resolution itself, so free access to all acts adopted not only by the National Assembly, but by a practically free approach to the "Official Messenger". It is very important that the National Assembly and Government will monitor the implementation of this resolution, but not on their own. Namely, both the Government and the National Bank, as one of the constitutionally envisaged authorising officers, and the Citizens' Protector, will report to the National Assembly at least once a year in implementing this resolution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs will, on its part, make the maximum possible for this resolution to take effect in practice. It is clear that SNS supports Serbia's European path, but let's look at it as lawyers and I think we will all agree here, that EU standards and insisting on harmonising our rights with EU law, that this is something extremely logical. So, I'm speaking as a lawyer now. Independently, the SNS fully supports Serbia's EU accession, but we must look at the corner of the citizens. The EU rules we want to harmonize with are 99.9% of cases excellent. It is very good for our citizens, it is very good for our economy, for our health system, for our education system and for every other segment of our social life to harmonize regulations with EU rules, and that is why, besides the fact that we support the European path, why harmonisation with EU law is repeatedly mentioned in the proposed text of the resolution. As for the amendments and constructive criticism of the text of the Resolution we heard, I will again thank my colleague, Mikovic, who invested most energy and time most in making this resolution and putting it into assembly procedure. As far as I'm aware, colleague Mikovic has already put a good part of these proposals in the text of the amendment. I'm sorry we didn't hear any of these proposals when the public hearing was organised about this resolution, because we could have acted in good time. I'll remind you that public listening to the text of this resolution was held a few months ago here in the National Assembly. We have indeed had a great response from all relevant institutions, all interested and NGOs and agencies, etc. I think we had about 200 guests who suggested a lot of things useful. I'll just mention, let's say, Mrs Petrusic, the gender equality commissioner, who made certain suggestions that are now an integral part of the amendment. Of course, it is clear that this resolution cannot correct every wrong Drina, that we cannot make every law that has entered the congregation procedure and that will come out of the congregation procedure to make it perfect, but we can definitely bring a new spirit into writing the law, a new spirit that is seen from the daily activities of this convocation and the National Assembly, but also from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We see that today it has become extremely normal to organise public debates on the texts of laws called for by interested public, experts, NGOs, international organisations and all others. Today, the most normal thing is to place the text of the bill on the websites of the competent ministries so that there are as many solutions as possible through the internet. Public hearings in the National Assembly are organized every day. Here, only the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has so far organised a very visited public hearing on this resolution, but also public hearing, let's say, on the subject of the prosecutor's investigation. We're planning a few more public hearings. It is a good practice, I fear in one period of our parliamentaryism little and forgotten, but here we are going back to that path which is certainly very useful and for which we have full support both of the EU and of our friends we work with. In the end, I would also refer to some amendments that, we heard today, may not be accepted in the original text, but we really need to distinguish. The very procedure for adopting the resolution is a little different than the adoption of the law. Some of the amendments we've heard today are too individual. This is one general resolution and should not be burdened with certain texts concerning individual laws. We can't look retroactively now. Surely some laws would have read differently, sounded and seemed to have been adopted if there had been this resolution at a time when they were discussed and adopted. As I said, we cannot correct all the wrong Drina, but I certainly hope that all MP groups will vote in favour or at least that no one will be against this resolution that, I repeat, is truly unusual in our practice. Almost all the board members signed it. We see today that the political parties of the different definition support it. It would be really good to see that this resolution is adopted at least without votes against. Of course, the SNS parliamentary group will support this resolution in a voting day with great satisfaction. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18262	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. The work continues at 15.00 hours, with the first speaker being MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18263	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18264	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the honourable representative of the proposing, Col. Srdjana Mikovic, at the beginning of the vote I will vote in favour of this resolution, because it is a step forward in the parliamentary work in Serbia. I am pleased that the committee in charge wrote the text of this document, which also took part and assisted through public debate and its expert consultations by Dr Radoje Cerović, Prof. Dr. Dobrosav Milovanovic and the manager of Dragan Ćurčija. Almost the whole world is currently characterized by an intense review of regulatory policies. Efforts to overcome a major problem arising from ineffective measures. The last resolution on this topic in the Serbian Parliament was brought 45 years ago in a slightly different environment than it is today. The legislative plan does not fully reflect the strategic priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not being published and is not being consistently implemented. Some strategies do not meet the envisaged standards and do not comply with each other. An emergency procedure is also used when there are no legitimate reasons for it. The best example is the National Bank Act and a set of tax laws. Unfortunately, from April 1st to May 15th this year, so within 45 days, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia worked only eight days, and then passed six laws in an emergency procedure without public debate, maximum abuse of the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to current topics, such as the catastrophic economic situation in the country, launched by the DS, of the five hours scheduled to discuss our political organisation, it has only been 10 minutes, on such an important topic. Some laws are not fully implemented and this interferes with the exercise of rights and obligations, slows down economic activity and generates additional costs. Large differences have been made in the legal regimes, so this leads to an unequal position of the same economic operator in different municipalities and cities. What are the reasons for this condition? The lack of political will, in my opinion, often changes in regulations, lack of knowledge and skills, a bad database. What are the objectives of this resolution, which I welcome? Improving the legislative process, strengthening legal certainty, harmonising public policies, and all the way to fighting corruption. What are the principles of the resolution? The principle of public responsibility, economics. What are the measures of the resolution? The analysis of the effects of regulations, transitional and final provisions providing legal certainty should explain the reasons for the adoption of solutions and, of course, continuous professional training. I will repeat once again that we will support this resolution and what is important is that it is a step forward in general in the congregation’s work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18265	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18266	Madam Vice-President, fellow MPs, the authorised representative of our parliamentary group in the afternoon debate, Mr Milos Aligrudic, said why our parliamentary group will not support the motion for this resolution and, in the context of its discussion, I will refer to several questions, which I believe is important in this, I can say, one uniform debate, which gives support to once, the definitively declarative text and messages and the solutions it gives. The first question and the most controversial question is – what is the objective of this text? Who he needs to commit to. Who's supposed to apply what's in this text? If a mid-day debate were to be heard, it would be the impression that we, the MPs, are the ones who will, to the greatest extent, highlight these solutions here as good, important, which already exist in a number of other regulations, be the ones to apply this. However, if we look at the reality of legislative life, we will see that the main subject is the one who is initiating the whole legislative process and who, when reading these solutions, would be the main burden of this job is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am not entering which government and what government, previous, current, future, executive power, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the main legislator of the law in our parliamentary system. That may not have been the case, but the practice of it speaks. MPs, the National Assembly, let's look at how many laws have been proposed by the MPs on the agenda of the National Assembly. Our parliamentary group certainly has 20 draft laws in the process and they are not there, and we cannot say that they are not important and that they would not solve an important problem. Therefore, it is the government of the Republic of Serbia that should be bound by this resolution. In reality, that's how it is. Now let's see that executive power, that government of the Republic of Serbia, as it has been since 2008 to all the resolutions submitted by this National Assembly. The largest number of these resolutions concerned solving the KIM problem. There are MPs here who have been in both calls, we can vote here whatever we want, it's a dead letter on paper for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it will behave the way it wants because it is, my God, the one who determines the policy towards the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you read here what we need to order the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because to the most extent possible, I ask you, are we serious in the idea that the Government will adopt this and accept it? The issue of proposing and discussing the law by emergency procedure is mentioned. I am now asking you, after the adoption of this resolution, on the basis of the provision of this resolution, which it says – ensure that by adopting the draft law by emergency procedure it only borders on extremely defined cases that the Government will accept it. Now we have eight laws that we are discussing under an emergency procedure, which are all united, and what we are about to say to the Government of the Republic of Serbia now that they do so at the next session, you have not read the resolution. Will the representatives who now support this stand up and say – Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, you violate the Assembly resolution, will they have the courage to say and read this to them? Our MP group thinks they won't. Then why would we support this? The bottom line is how I can speak from my own experience, I'm a long-standing MP, I need to be resolved. First things first. We have a very bad Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and our MP group spoke very much about it when he was adopted in the previous assembly. The consequences of the bad Rules of Procedure, now in certain things, are heard from colleagues and other parliamentary groups, are suffered by the same ones who have adopted it, and it is a non-democratic Rules of Procedure that had the idea to suppress opposition rights, while at the same time allowing the Government and ministers and self-regulatory and pushing the law into an emergency procedure without sufficient time and for public debate and for serious criticism. These dear colleagues, you who support this resolution, were able to elaborate thoroughly and adopt into the new rules of procedure. He would make us bound and bound by these same ministers who came here to debate and those same ministers who passed the laws and delivered them to the National Assembly. Maybe it was the logic of the proprietor that it didn't hurt to repeat his head. I really think that if we respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is no need to talk about when retroactive application can be achieved, let's say the rules, as stated here. That's what we have in the Constitution, we have in every regulation that we want to adopt. What does this mean in the resolution that was adopted here? What will it contribute to assessing whether, in the day of the vote, we will decide whether before we speak in the final text, we will adopt that it is applied retroactively? Will this resolution solve this problem? Of course not. The other thing is, here we're talking about how often it's used here, about law enforcement capacities. Again to remind the public and all of us, the capacity to enforce the law is outside this room. They're in executive power, in the government, in the authorities of the administration. What have we done as MPs in the preceding period to strengthen these capacities or, in the extreme line, what have we done to create a legislative framework to make it possible? We want to talk about a law that limits the number of employees in the Republic administration, who is praised for all the mouths of the previous government? It has been said to lead to state administration reform, that it will work better. What's the matter with that law? Has the state administration changed? Does it work better? Is administrative less? Are solutions made faster? Are they investors? Do citizens complain less? We haven't passed system laws in the field of state administration, we don't have the Law of Administrative Procedure. We passed the Law of Administrative Disputes that changed several times because it was so bad. Now we're talking about capacity and capacity for us to control that state administration. I think it's a hoax, and by discussing this today, we could probably have had a better day, adopting more important laws and more important regulations. The way in which all this already exists in the Rules of Procedure and other laws was applied, it can best say how it was done, how the Law on the Justice Reform process has been joined. I'm just going to lay down the basics of some of the principles that are stated here. Are the laws in the framework of the judicial reform being done as a result of a comprehensive analysis of all regulatory instruments? Do they contain unnecessary procedures and administrative costs? We know what problems they've made, by moving and removing courts, by moving and leading witnesses from one city to another, by traveling, etc. Did these laws that were passed solve problems in the judiciary? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Are your regulations applicable? We saw they weren't. Who can guarantee us that such a thing will not happen when this is adopted? This all existed when your laws were passed. Another problem, which is the essence of this resolution, is the real goal, and we can now put this as one oblandu of all of these principles, attitudes, all of this. The main objective is for this National Assembly to send a political message that the legislative process will take place towards the adoption of European standards, the European Aki as we want to call it, and that this is the main task in the coming period. Of course, that is what my colleague was talking about, our parliamentary group is expressing a very clear opposition to the further continuation of European integration because we have a serious political dispute with the EU over the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, regarding its policy towards Kosovo and the Metohija, regarding its policy on other issues concerning our country. We believe that in such a situation we should examine here in the National Assembly the further process of European integration. On the other hand, has it always proven well by both the previous government and the ruling majority, which passed a large number of laws, that all the laws adopted under the EU legal flows were good and applicable. Do not be fooled that you will be able to choose which laws you will adopt from the legal flows of the EU, you will have to adopt everything, if you get a date, we would like you not to get it, but if you get it, when the screening of all chapters passes, everything they impose on you, you will have to adopt. This is all in one of these realities to the social, political, economic, in which Serbia is located, to a large extent to turn itself into a serious problem for certain parts of our society, for certain segments of the economy, and to turn, in the extreme line, into negative consequences or cartoons. By adopting today, you commit to adopt everything that comes from the European Commission. Serbia should take care of its interests when it builds its legal order – first, to respect its constitution, when it makes decisions or when it concludes international agreements. We have seen that in a series of decisions both of the previous and of this government, concerning our territorial integrity, the Constitution is not respected. It is not respected in a number of other laws or decisions – the Law establishing the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, the Statute of Vojvodina, etc., on the most important political issues in this country and on the basis of its own interests, considering the social problems and processes that take place in our country, to adopt laws and legislative solutions. If such laws are, if the models for solving these problems are in the laws that exist in EU countries, yes, we should adopt them, but not all of them and not what we are forced to be part of such an international organisation. At the very least, if all of this were good and good in the context of European flows, they would not have the crisis they have today -- an EU that has an ugly, large and not only economic but also a political, social and moral crisis. I guess they'd be able to solve all the laws they've passed. There are good solutions, there are good laws that can solve our social issues or situations that arise in the end line, which we can establish some harmonisation in the segments we want to work with with the EU. But in the second sentence of the reasoning of this resolution, it is a confirmation that Serbia has reached democratic, legal and market standards is a question -- now to look at each other and to say whether it is true. Because we got a bid to join the EU. Ask citizens if they think Serbia has built enough democratic, legal and market-oriented standards and become such a state, and that the candidacy has verified it. Don't fool around again. It was not because Serbia did it, otherwise we would not be in such a deep economic, social, political crisis, but because it was the EU's political decision, based on political decisions and consent to abandoning the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the previous government. That's why they're running for office. It may also give a date, if the ruling majority behave in the same way. But if we were able to build the state we wanted, we couldn't build it, otherwise we'd be a happy and happy society. That is why, in order not to be in a situation where the EU imposes everything on us and that because we must be part of this process towards an international organisation, which is in deep crisis, we must define our own priorities for building a legal order. It doesn't have to be written in one of these. That's what the Constitution says. It can be written in the laws that we pass and, above all, by colleagues, it must be written in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Above all, colleagues, if we want to achieve what you have written here, which, if the National Assembly changes, we all in it and our relationship to the executive authority remain a dead letter on paper that we as MPs are, in full respect of the principles, going to divide the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial. Gentlemen, I ask all of you to what extent did we, as MPs, manage to exercise control of the government's work and have a serious debate in the National Assembly, were the government or opposition, about what the government is doing? Our days when we bring the government to the National Assembly are being praised by the ruling majority of ministers and in criticism by the opposition, not related to the state of society. We must change our consciousness as ambassadors and indeed become those who control the executive power. It's a difficult process. We don't have to be wrong about that. A very difficult, very complicated one, as the previous decades marked the period of supremacy of the executive power over parliamentary power. But if we all want to build the National Assembly together as such an institution that manages to control the executive power, then we will have to change first us within the National Assembly and change the acts we act on. We can prescribe to the government how he will behave when he comes here to the National Assembly. Not with an act like this. It's with the Rules of Procedure. Let's go right now and make a new Rules of Procedure. Let's immediately force the government to have a projection of how legislative policy should be and what laws should be proposed on the basis of what we think is important to society. We come from different backgrounds and know what the problems in society are. Let's tell the government to impose a legislative plan on her for a year. What laws should the Government bring and what problems to solve? We MPs know best what are the problems that exist in society. Maybe better than the government itself. It's a kind of pressure on the executive power, and maybe we could establish this equality that we're talking about and maybe we could establish what we really want, which is that the legislative authority controls the executive. And above all, if we want a resolution, we commit ourselves, not an authority that at this point, because of our weaknesses, our capacities, we can't control, because this resolution is the text that has the primary goal of directing the legislative process towards European integration without the clarity of the plan where it should bring Serbia and because this list of lists of principles that already exist in a number of other laws and because we know in advance that neither the ruling majority nor those who support it nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia will support the DSS to vote for such text.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18267	Mr. Veselinović, on what basis are you answering? (National MP Janko Veselinovic, from the post: He mentioned the previous government. ) No mention of your parliamentary group, and please do not enter into the debate. (People's MP Janko Veselinović, from the post: I want to answer him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18270	It's not about any abuse of the Rules of Procedure, it's about something that's important to say. In most of Mr Palalic's discussion, I agree, and the basis for the replica can also be the mention of the previous government in which the DS was a significant part of the government and is somehow responsible for the work of the government. What I absolutely agree with Mr Palalic is that there has been some kind of deparliamentaryisation of the country, that the government has taken the role of parliament to a good extent, that parliament has been brought to the brink that the government's law-making service is most often by emergency procedure without the possibility of a proper debate on them. But I don't agree on how to solve it together. I think this resolution is a product, i.e. that it is extorted and that it is a position and position and opposition that the Government sometimes takes too much of itself, offers us too little to control and that we might have that role that the Constitution has given us. What exactly is this about? It's that we don't have or have a very small control role in relation to the government and it's that the laws don't apply. In order for the laws to be applied, or that they would be adopted at all, and that they would make sense is that there are certain rules... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The parliament and the government would treat each other. I don't think it's... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'll end up in one sentence. I don't think it's a way for us to stop and not adopt this resolution and continue to adopt laws that won't apply, but to adopt a resolution that everyone will respect to apply the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18271	Mr. Palalic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18272	I understood what my colleague Veselinovic said. But we disagree whether these are the effects of this resolution. Absolutely in the previous session, our parliamentary group wanted and pointed out when the Rules of Procedure was adopted that a new relationship must be established between the government and parliament. At that time, we criticised the adoption of the Rules of Procedure because he unfortunately put the National Assembly’s decision in a more favourable position to the government than the parliament that this Rules of Procedure had made. Listing all that the government should do, and leaving out any concrete mechanisms that cannot come to this resolution but to the Rules of Procedure to control this, we will do nothing. We're bringing in one piece of paper that will be recorded. He'll probably be sent to Brussels to the European Commission that we adopted him and nothing else. We won't force the government to do what you're talking about if we don't change the Rules of Procedure and if we don't all start acting differently with each other compared to what the Government is proposing to us here and we all criticise or praise what's coming from the government. But the way to do that is unfortunately not this resolution because no resolution in the previous period has respected any government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18273	The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18274	I deeply think both colleagues hurt the Rules of Procedure because you gave them the opportunity to replicate about something, about the general conclusion. We could all be present here to replicate now that the government has adhered to the rules that the government in the future will respect the resolution or not, but I don't think that's going to get us anywhere. Since the Minister of Agriculture has already arrived, and there are very few colleagues here who want to participate in the further debate, perhaps we should slowly bring down the results of this work today. I do not agree with those colleagues who are working on the motion for today's resolution, which was in front of us and Parliament, and in this sentence I will give an answer why Parliament today adopts and resolution, so we are a legislative body and I have no dilemma there – why is the legislative body and not the executive body proposing such a resolution? These are the basics of some dealing with our policy here. I am not demeaning the effort but I would like to express my great gratitude to colleagues who have worked closely on the text of this resolution in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It wasn't easy at all. In fact, the whole process does not date from several months ago, but since 2001, when it started to bring domestic legislation into line with the EU, and I don't see that innocence or government from 2003 to 2007, or someone has deep political amnesia and is ashamed of some four years of political action. I can only say that this period has also been quite commendable and that the parliament, as well as the Government that has proposed, has done something good for the state, but this time more parliament that adopted those laws. This will not be a dead letter on paper, although it is wanted by some MPs who will not think about anything at all but vote against, and do not say what should be done to improve the situation. I think this is an extremely important law, but also the awareness of the importance of the legislative policy in our country, which has been shown by the fact that of the 31 MPs, 25 have not been put on when proposing any political uniforms, nor have they had any political labels, but have shown this awareness of how important this resolution is and how important it is to adopt this text in an almost unanimous manner today. Someone is downplaying compliance with European Union regulations, I would say that I simply did not understand what the reasons are against and what is bad if we speak generally, of course, will not be adopted what MPs consider not to be necessary and that it is contrary to the interests of our citizens. When I say about the interests of our citizens, that is the essence of this resolution, because it is extremely important how laws will be passed, and what else is more important, what impact on the citizens of this country will have on the quality of these laws. The essence of the resolution, as far as I understand it, is that we simply all commit ourselves together to harmonize the speed of regulation on one side, and on the other side the quality of the regulations we want to achieve. There are two things that are important to me, as the law will be passed, I have said, and let's say how to animated citizens and how to allow citizens to all participate together in the adoption of laws, so there is an important obligation of public debate, which is envisaged and of course how this Parliament to exercise the greatest control of the application of these laws, because I still claim that we have very good laws, but what we miss is later to check whether these laws apply in the spirit that we have adopted. This resolution is binding that it is not just one of the acts that we are going to bring here because the whole effort since 2001 would have been defeated. The study that preceded it was extremely extensive, they got all 250 MPs, I hope they've all read it, so they'll see how much effort it's put here. Many, really great thanks to the OSCE Office in Warsaw and the organisation of GIZ, or Deute Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenabeit, who very often also help us to adopt such studies, not to help us, as some MPs like to say. What has gone unnoticed, I just want to point out for the public, because of all my fellow Members, but, of course, colleagues who understand the importance of what Ms. Nevena Petrusic, who is a trustee for the protection of gender equality, simply initiated, as far as I understand the promoters that it is accepted, whether it is an amendment, but in any case it has become part of the motion for resolution, and that is the obligation, now it is a rule, that a comprehensive birth analysis is previously carried out in the law. The citizens of Serbia are not sufficiently familiar with what it is, because we use these raving expressions that are not as receptive to them as a birth analysis of the law. It is an extremely good instrument that can speed up this transformation of our society towards a goal of greater equality and equality, both women and men. However, in the Constitution to which many are called, in some parts that suit them, some do not, the gender equality in our country has been stressed, but the equal opportunities for advancement are highlighted. When we get to that equal opportunity, that's what this resolution now wants to fix and even more emphasize. We don't deal with laws on that side, because we simply don't, when it's not gender equality, how laws are ultimately affecting the lives of women and men in our country. At first glance, when we get bill proposals here, we read them, we adopt them, they act as if zero is equal to all, i.e. benign, and when some of the negative consequences of the law are analysed, they tend to feel more about women, women's populations, and in some parts of men as well. If there's efficiency and the big question -- how much is it going to cost our country, do we have enough personnel? Yeah. We've got men. I recently met at a seminar, in a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, a great expert dealing with the analysis of laws from this aspect of gender equality. That's when I saw that we really have experts that are invisible so far. What we're going to need is going to be one big education. I think we'll have the support of the organizations that initiated this resolution. Believe me, the ultimate goal of that will be extremely positive. I do not see any reason why it is truly unanimous, without the influence of colleagues who have already decided in advance not to support it, because they think it is useless, it will not be implemented, so we could act according to each proposal, adopt this motion for a resolution and thus show how mature we are as a society and how seriously we are considering improving our country's legislative policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18275	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18276	Just so there's no doubt about it, since the period between 2003 and 2007 was mentioned here when the DSS had a government. So, yes, it is not disputed that laws were then passed that harmonised Serbia's system with the EU. Whoever listened carefully to our speeches saw that we would not give up today from a certain degree of harmonisation, even though we think Serbia should give up EU membership. Harmonization is necessary in that part, because it's our first neighbor. I will remind, very briefly, at the time there were different political opportunities and a different relationship between Serbia and the EU. We weren't asked to do what we were asked to do today. The attack on Serbia's integrity was not this massive and very open, clear, as it was from the moment of the so-called self-proclaim. Kosovo's independence and recognition as an independent state of our territory's work. These are completely two different dimensions. Our relationship with this changes practically for these reasons. As for the usefulness of harmonisation, it's a story completely open. We should harmonize our relationship, not with the EU, but with the environment and all that we represent a useful environment for the Serbian economy, the economy and the political scene on the principle of usefulness and reciprocity. That's the essence of the story. That's how we think of overcoming problems. How do you react? Once again, not by resolution, it is necessary to react by means of concrete action, by amending the Rules of Procedure, by amending specific regulations and by forcing the executive authority to accept the principles of the division of the powers declared in the Constitution and to do so by means of a comprehensive action, and the declaration of this type, except for cheap political, short-term use, before a date, the assumed date for negotiations, that is absolute nonsense. That's what I'm saying most well-intentioned. I wouldn't want to get the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18277	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18278	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to thank the people who allowed this resolution today to be discussed and seen in this world, in this building, at the beginning of their presentation. I must give thanks to Mrs. Dragana Curcia, Mr. Rado Cerovic, Mr. Dobrosav Milovanovic, but above all, our colleague Srdjan Mikovic, who showed his unselfish willingness, the nobility to invest his time in making this resolution, to make his expertise available to all the MPs, because this is one very important document we are discussing today. The law, especially the resolution, are witnesses of the times in which they are created, they are the expression of the conditions they produce, but above all, our view of the future and our reflection in the mirror of the future. And the laws and resolutions in the best possible way show whether we're up to the work we're doing, whether we're up to the work we're doing. It is very important that we have one of these resolutions today and that we discuss it, because as always a good man is threatened by a bad man, so the good law is constantly threatened by a bad legislator. Here today, first and foremost, we are talking about the procedure, because the procedure is what, I say, is desperately lacking sometimes in Serbian society and all segments of our society. By disrespecting the procedure, which was spoken of by my esteemed colleague Komic, she produces very often dramatic and tragic coincidences both in our society and in everyday life. Not to be a degutant comparison, as a boy, I was first at a military cemetery in Zeitinlik. All graves well lined, crosses. Then my grandfather tells me -- you see, it was done by respecting the procedure when these heroes were buried, and now look at any cemetery in Serbia, rural, urban, you'll see that you can't go through that cemetery because there were no procedures. Or, to apply a more appropriate comparison. Look at our people in Serbia, at any mall, shopping mall or anywhere. When you look at these people when they come to the shopping mall, the mall, they all use moving stairs, they drive right to the left, sometimes they stick to both hands for those stairs, and sometimes they don't even let people who rush past them. When our people go to the countries of Western Europe, to the markets centres of Western Europe, everyone stands on the right, the left side of the moving staircase is left behind for those who are in a hurry, who are used to respecting the procedure. When we're making laws, there's no room for such a haste, but when we're going to fix the state, some of them can go down the moving stairs, some of them can skip two steps, some of them can drive on moving stairs, but those who drive shouldn't bother those who are in a hurry. Those who rush sometimes make mistakes. When laws are passed, we cannot bear mistakes, because the consequences of these mistakes suffer our entire society and all the citizens of this country. However, when we talk about procedures, when we talk about what to do when laws are passed and what legislators we need, I do not think that this resolution is doing anything wrong. On the contrary, I do not think that we must have some fatalist approach, that we cannot have any influence as a parliament to have both legislative and executive power, that we, as parliamentarians, are practically unable to correct some of the negative effects that the government can produce in relation to parliament. On the contrary, parliament is the one who chooses the government, parliament is the one who controls the government. Unfortunately, parliament, as an institution, has become an institution in recent years since the smallest confidence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Look at the public opinion research. All say MPs are like this or like this, and parliaments are very low-listed in these public opinion polls. Is it quoted because we are passing laws by emergency procedure or because there has been a continuing campaign in the violation of parliament in some tabloids? Is it all our fault that we are sitting here because of some previous proceedings, so that's what the public opinion is about? It may not be my place to judge as a member of this House, but it is our job to keep building parliament as an institution that will restore citizens' trust, because we are still the representative home of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We were not elected by the Americans or the Russians or the NATO or the EU, we were elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we are the mirrors of Serbia, as we are. In order for us to be better in that mirror, that mirror can't be nicer if we put it in a nice frame, but if the picture that looks at that mirror is more beautiful, neater, more polite, more polite, and how we bring these resolutions and honor the political scene of Serbia, so our reflection in the mirror of the future will be as polite as possible, and we will show that we are up to the work we are doing. Someone will notice it, someone will see the coaster in it, someone will see someone courting someone, but the intention of the people who made this resolution is primarily to strengthen parliament, as an institution, and to establish certain procedures as to how certain laws are passed and how certain laws apply. It's not just about passing the law. The law needs to be applied. This resolution should not be mixed with something that would be parliamentary procedural law. One way is to make laws through the process of making and writing laws. This is, however, more comprehensive material and matter, because it speaks not only about the birth of the law, but also about how the law lives in practice and how we, as Parliament, assume control function in our society. The law often has to settle the past and the present, but law writers must see beyond the time they live in. Very often this job is not easy, because the job of legislators is to create a better, humane society, a more rational state, a fairer community. If we answer that job, then we'll be good legislators, good government controllers. The question arises – can a paper, as someone said, or a resolution to give us powers just like that, to implement these control mechanisms. Perhaps neither can the Rules of Procedure, because sometimes the Rules of Procedure are brutally broken, so it doesn't mean anything if we adopt it in one way or another, if the Rules of Procedure depends on the will of the majority, of the will of 126. But if there is a real desire for what is written in the Rules of Procedure or resolution to be implemented in practice, then we will take a strong step forward and then our colleague Mikovic will not waste his time to break these efforts into a written document on which we will plead. Of course, for the end, the law is both faith and belief, faith in the power of the law and belief that the law brings good to everyone and everyone. I am absolutely convinced that this resolution brings good to both Serbian society and the Serbian Parliament, that it establishes certain procedures and I see no reason for us to shadow this resolution, that it is actually a resolution that has some secret, hidden goals, except that it really establishes a procedure that our society so needs to normalises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18279	Thank you. MP Srdjan Shane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18280	Ladies and gentlemen, today's resolution on the agenda is, in any case, something that can happen as well to one democracy, to our personal democracy at that stage of democracy in Serbia today. It means to me, among other things, a continuity of repeating basic principles and basic Serbia's and democratic society in Serbia. Let me just say on one particular case how important it is and why it is important that often some things, some goals, some principles that, regardless of what different laws or the Constitution are entered and entered, we sometimes put them in one place, as we put them here, in this text that we're talking about today. The best example is the events that took place in the Municipality of Secanj, in Jasa Tomic, where about an hour later, a household attacked a group of young people, a dozen of them, who literally broke the ground floor of a house where the children and mothers of those children were, and that during the night then it turned into one silent potential of a serious conflict, because on the one hand it cost 30-40 people under arms, and on the other hand it cost 15 people who did it, and the police struggled all night to bring it into one real framework. If we bring these documents and the Serbian Parliament is often a place where we talk about the basic postulates of democracy, about monitoring the work of all executive bodies, about the role and task of the Assembly, not only in passing laws, but also in carrying out parliamentary control of the executive government, then we can add a significant contribution and such things that people really at that micro-level of concrete relations between two people in Serbia realize that we simply seek a state that is legally regulated, which respects the laws, where justice is known, that justice cannot be expelled, that justice cannot be exorcised by extremists, but that justice can be exorcised only by taking over the role of both legislative and judicial and executive bodies in this country. I would point out just a few things that are part of the text of this resolution that are extremely important. It is important that what we have heard from SVM representatives, that what is said about human and minority rights is accepted, because these are also true in international documents, in the Framework Convention and in different other documents of two different types of rights, two different capacities of rights enjoyed by citizens or as individuals or as members of a particular group. The second thing that is very important is that the Serbian Parliament has clearly defined that all good examples of good practices that exist in the region, which exist in Europe, benefit from its work. In that sense, the unquestionable contribution is the formation of a Roma interparliamentary organisation, whose Serbian Parliament hosted, where representatives in all parliaments that exist at this time in Europe and later in the world created the interparliamentary organisation, where they also visited the Macedonian president of the state and President Tomislav Nikolic and the president of the Hungarian Republic's parliament. All talks with all representatives of the diplomatic crust in Serbia have confirmed that it is extremely important that parliaments co-operate to pass exactly the law concerning vulnerable groups. When we talk about vulnerable groups, then we talk about the Roma, because the Roma are not the problem of Serbia, they are not the problem of the Balkans, this social community is a problem for Europe, and in this sense we all have to work together, together to apply the measures, and in this direction I welcome in particular the determination of such a provision. In the end, they're right about people who say that they're not enough laws and that they're not enough documents. However, they are also right to say that if we all send clear messages in the country to citizens in which the state is going, and that it is our primary task to create a legally regulated state, then we will be able to understand it slowly and that is the best way to deal with all those who, unfortunately, have different ideas about how to solve things in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18281	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18282	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, democracy is certainly the right of the majority, but also the right of the minority. Today is the second time I have supported my colleague Mikovic's proposals. So we even passed one law. On that occasion, to my astonishment, while we voted, a large number of his colleagues, as well as while explaining his proposals in the law that we passed last time, was not present in the hall, there were barely a few of them, and during the vote, more than half of his parliamentary group voted for it. Nevertheless, as some democratic majority, we have resolved and adopted his past law, which he has proposed. I am pleased that this time, too, I can support his law, that is, his resolution, which sort of regulates the procedure in law making, that it be more and more in the service of the gunmen, and that it is not at their expense and that it is not exaggerated to the benefit of others. What surprises me is why my colleague Mikovic didn't do it in the last session. He had four years to propose that kind of resolution. I'm sure I'll support her, better ever than never, but it's a little wonder he didn't have any understanding when they were most. This is how democratic we are, the majority in this House, that for what was not understood in the last term, there is understanding as a minority and that we will certainly vote, at least me, and I think other colleagues will vote for this resolution, given Mr Mikovic's noble intentions, which, although late, are still welcome. Better late than never. I'm afraid his colleagues have a problem, because essentially Mr. Mikovic admitted his mistake, and his colleagues are a little disappointed because they won't admit it, except for other people's mistakes, no other mistake. As far as we're concerned, they won't forgive us for their mistakes. It's not a grudge to Mr. Mikovic, it's certainly a grudge to some of his unprincipled colleagues, but that's no reason why we don't support this law. What I don't see that this resolution covers is what hurts all citizens, and that's the many laws and regulations that we make, which often go into collapsing and are often the opposite of each other. Sometimes I get the impression that our administration orders regulations for itself. So we have over 120,000 employees and we have more than 200,000 employees in public enterprises. I have the impression that this administration orders and orders some laws and regulations, and it says in the suggestions just so that she has more work to do, that the more the seals and signatures are pounded, and you're always missing some paper when you come to the counter. This resolution does not cover, of course, regulations, nor regulations, etc. I'm afraid we won't, regardless of our noble intentions, avoid that situation to be walked from the counter to the counter. There is what he said, it seems to me, Matija Bećkovic: "No man feels smaller than in front of the counter, and nowhere feels bigger than behind the counter." So, I'm afraid we won't shorten that administrative procedure, that even future law-making technologies won't prevent the administration from making problems for us and, let's say, the man from one counter to the other is sent with an argument – you're missing paper from my colleague who's only two meters away, who, miraculously, can't betray it, but you have to submit a request to wait another two, three or four weeks. So slow and lazy administration, I'm afraid even this resolution, and I'm afraid no future laws will be able to remove, because I'm simply afraid those officials are bigger and older than the state, older than the citizens, and we're going to miss those papers in the future. I also welcome the efforts made in the draft laws of the Ministry of Justice to make certain documents, ID cards, etc. they don't take out every minute, that we don't have to get 25 times a year to get a certificate of citizenship, or a copy of the birth certificate to prove that we were born and that we would have the right to a ID or any document. And you know yourself when you run for office that no matter how many mandates you've been, both this administration and the electoral commission is asking me not to know how many times you've been born in that country, that you're nationals of that state, etc. It goes in favour of my thesis that the administration has made a state for itself, a very expensive state, and I therefore appreciate this effort in this sense that we may come up with such solutions in the future, not only in the resolution, but also in the laws, that we do not need such complex administrative procedures to achieve someone's right. When we find it difficult to achieve it, then we can know how difficult it is to be achieved by citizens. Also, the laws we passed in this assembly, to start only from the Privatisation Act, in that meeting until 2003, was me, and all other amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act proved to be very wrong. So it was taken from those who did not have it, given to those who had it. The privatisation laws were such a disgrace that not only in the economy today, but in the society as a whole, they made a reaction so that citizens were left without any rights, because the right to work, the right to profit is one basic right from which all other rights arise. Huge economic and natural resources thanks to this Privatisation Act have been kidnapped by citizens assigned to tycoons, so sometimes I think that the Assembly, I say this self-critically, that the Assembly has often not passed the laws as it wanted and thought that someone who wanted to take something, someone who wanted to exercise some of their rights in privatization at the expense of others, that naturally created good flows from social to private, that it did not do so against the law. Simply, these people in the congregation, and perhaps in previous governments, ordered bill proposals, laws that fit them, which did not suit the citizens. This has led to today in this country that the whole state becomes a social case and we think that our responsibility to the citizens is greater when we adopt laws and regulations that today the mothers of children sleep before they have to eat dinner, because they have nothing to give them to eat. We have a situation where citizens carefully buy bread and look at it three times before buying it, that they have so much money that you can't see anyone today before the store window. Now you can walk through Belgrade, you used to walk and you could see in front of every window five or six citizens who see what they're going to buy from shoes, conferences, etc. Today, among other things, the Privatisation Act, most citizens cannot stand by shame in front of windows because they have no money to buy even the cheapest item from that window. I think that we should pass future laws and that this resolution should serve so that no one in Serbia is hungry, that no one is barefoot, that no one is naked and that no one is a slave in their country that becomes a third-rate colony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18283	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18284	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are nearing the end of this discussion. I think there is no dispute that not only the SNS parliamentary group but also many other parliamentary groups in this House will support this resolution. Once again, I hope the resolution will pass, if not unanimously, at least without a vote against. There are very good ideas here, just before I talked about principles, but let's pay a little attention to what the resolution says is necessary in the future, it is explicitly said that in the future we should avoid too detailed destandardisation of the identification of individual questions or from case to case. Something which is certainly a very good recommendation for executive power when it proposes laws, of course, and we ourselves when we propose laws. Public powers should be limited to public powers, with an explanation of the advantages of why they are granted. It is explicitly said that, during the draft law, sublaws should also be drawn up and attached to the bill. Otherwise, it is an excellent idea that, in the future, when, especially those slightly more complicated, system laws are passed, at least drafts or at least some drafts of future regulations, regulations and similar delivery with the text of the law itself. I think it is very useful, not to say very noblely that what is proposed is that, if it is possible, the system laws come into force not eight days from publication but also 30 or 60 days later, that competent institutions and citizens may become aware of the text of such laws in detail. Certainly, it is a very good proposal to always prepare timely consolidated text regulations in the event that the regulations have been amended several times. In one word, when all this is gathered together with the principles that we have already discussed, and now these basic rules, of course, there are other rules, but I don't want to take up any more time, we realize that this is one good resolution that will make a great contribution to the quality of our legislative process, which will contribute greatly to legal certainty and to making it easier for citizens first and, of course, to all those who are not lawyers in these forest regulations. Let's be honest with each other who we're lawyers sometimes the same thing gets tough. Of course it shouldn't be a defectist, it shouldn't be automatically said now – it won't be anything of this. Honestly, I deeply believe that when this resolution is adopted and published in the Official Messenger, it will have an impact on our legislative policy, that it will also affect the executive power which most often proposes laws but also on all of us since we have recently returned to one good practice in the National Assembly, which is that MPs propose laws, that MPs propose resolutions and other acts adopted by the National Assembly. What we're saying is, let half of what's written here come to life by the end of the year, we can be happy and we can say that we've done something useful and that we're going to have a much better state of law enforcement. Many times we have mentioned the merits of individual MPs when drawing up this resolution. However, I will now take the opportunity not to forget and repeat that this resolution has been signed by 25 MPs who are members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. The resolution was also signed by counterpart Andric, Veroljub Arsic, Olgica Batić, Jelena Budimirović, Laslo Varga, Vojislav Vujic, Neđo Jovanovic, Marko Pavlik, Kosanovic Mirna, Pantic Biljana, etc. In the first place, I will also thank the former chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law but also my deputy colleague, Mikovic, but we must not forget all the other members who have sometimes contributed to the criticism that this text is of maximum quality. Once again, in the end, I am convinced that this resolution will be respected. This resolution is quality, it will facilitate the writing of the law, it will facilitate the understanding of the law. The Serbian Progressive Party will, of course, vote in favour, I see that all coalition partners will vote in favour, and I would like, if possible, that no one votes against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18285	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a representative of the proposing MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18286	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am extremely pleased to have attended, participated in this debate on the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on Legislative Policy. This discussion means a lot, above all, in order to take specific guidelines for further work. Whether or not any suggestion will be accepted or not accepted, whether any amendment will be accepted or not, any discussion has been useful in any case. The fact is that no such resolution could have been proposed during an earlier period, or such a resolution would not have been based on exact data. The fact is that during the last term of the National Assembly, it also began with a comprehensive process of analysis of the legislative process in the Republic of Serbia. Just one of the main documents that was the basis for this resolution is the study on the improvement of the legislative process in the Republic of Serbia, where a practical legislative process has been practically reviewed on 270 pages. This was done and completed in the first half of 2012 and practically this publication came out of the press in June 2012. This publication was presented to the MPs in the National Assembly and was distributed not only to the Assembly’s presidency but also to each parliamentary group just to see what those who are experts can advise us on how the legislative process should be improved. So there are certain conclusions and a whole series of recommendations that those who made this study wrote in order to think about it. The fact is that I was the first working text of the motion for a resolution was distributed to members and deputies of members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law in January 2013. On several occasions, I personally informed the members and deputies of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives in a discussion with individual entities to which I reached or arrived and how this working text is slowly perfected. In early March, this motion for a resolution was given in procedure, but it did not prevent all of us from also trying to make an effort to listen to all the smart people, what all the professional people can advise us to do to make the resolution even better and possibly amend such a single resolution. On the basis of some of the first information I have come to by listening to just the professional public, I repeat that everything I have written in the amendment and what I have written in amendment corrections is not only my ideas but the ideas that other relevant entities have come up with in this process of reconciliation, a consultation in the process of public debate. In that sense, everyone had the opportunity to make some suggestions and to fix as much as possible a formulation. Here, I was fixing the last formulation on June 12th, yesterday, accepting practically and adding to this amendment, which I submitted on March 28th and later supplementing, the last specific suggestions that came from the Manjin parliamentary group as to the fact that in the very concept of human rights and freedoms we particularly underline minority rights, which I think is absolutely fine. In any case, I tried not only to give what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given in its opinion, not only what the Trustee for the Protection of Equality has given in its suggestion, not only have many other experts given during the debate to make practical progress with this amendment, the corrected amendment, to the text that should finally shape this resolution. I don't think there's any obstacle to voting for this resolution. It has been discussed whether in a certain way this resolution defines anything in advance that has not been decided in a certain way and was not subject to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or those positions already accepted by the National Assembly. In this regard, I point to one of the controversial parts of the resolution, which is said to be "to ensure the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU legal assets". This is not about the concept of European integration. This is practically about harmonising domestic legislation with EU legal assets. If we feel that we should behave in accordance with Article 1. The Constitution, Mr. Markovic said well, Article 1. The constitution defines that the Republic of Serbia is based, among other things, on freedoms and belonging to European principles and values. What are European principles and values rather than practically EU liquids, which as a formal term is accepted in the motion for a resolution? In that sense, I do not see a disturbance that all those who are currently putting one particular reserve on the text of the resolution itself would not reconsider, until Vote Day, and yet accept this motion for a resolution. The second question has been, what do we get from this resolution? Many debaters have talked about direct effects and direct things that need to be corrected in the legislative process, meaning, from the parallel production of sublegal acts, from the need for the basics of the law to exist in every draft law, but mostly, what do I think is most important? Most importantly, in the resolution itself, at the end of the resolution, it is foreseen that the National Assembly and the Government are monitoring the implementation of this resolution. The government, the AP assembly, the Citizens' Protector and the National Bank of Serbia report to the National Assembly on the implementation of this resolution at least once a year. The Committee of the National Assembly responsible for constitutional issues and legislation shall consider these reports and submit a final report to the National Assembly with a proposal for conclusions, i.e. recommendations for further improvement of legislative policy. What does the spoil of the National Assembly finally do? The National Assembly shall consider the report with a proposal for a conclusion, i.e. the recommendation of the committee responsible at least once a year. The moment we vote and accept this resolution, there is a commitment that at least once a year you, colleagues and fellow MPs, are able to call all those involved in the legislative process to account for what was done in the legislative process during that calendar year. I think it's very important, because then it's going to be an opportunity to see if they've given sublegal acts, how much of the law is in the emergency procedure, what needs to be improved, whether or not the analysis of the effects of the regulation follows. One thing to tell you, all these activities at the adoption of the Resolution were followed by a whole series of activities by representatives of a whole series of entities from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice, the Office for European Integration and many others, and it has already been made up, here in front of me, a review of what needs to be done in the coming period. So it doesn't end with Resolution this job of ours. We are expected to improve the strategic framework of the legislative process, to improve the legal framework for the implementation of the legislative process, to introduce mandatory publication of the National Assembly and Government legislative plan, to introduce the concept of starting basis for law making, to regulate the way of education, to function and responsibility of the working groups for the making of regulations, to improve the public debate process, to gradually introduce the obligation to assess the impact of regulations for certain or several key laws from the work of the competent authorities of the state administration, to further strengthen the Office for Regulatory Reform and to analyse the effects of regulations and the Office for European Integration, the Republic Secretariat for Law, to introduce state-level regulations, free of charge to citizens and businesses, which is partly done by the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts. I note that the first text of the resolution came before MPs in January. Meanwhile, parallel to that, the government has proposed a law voted here in the Assembly. Next, the introduction of the obligation of simultaneous preparation of sub-legislative acts with the draft laws, which should be in the Government's Rules of Procedure, the introduction of the obligation to report on law enforcement, an analysis of the existing organisation of the conduct of normative and analytical transactions in the bodies of the state administration and the knowledge of the skills and number of civil servants working on these transactions and the provision of appropriate financial resources to implement the planned measures. So we're thinking, and we're going to be at the opportunity, I expect for a year at the latest, to see how the resolution is applied and what of the following tasks is done, or at what rate we're going towards it. In that sense, I call once again on all of you, colleagues and colleagues, and these members of the parliamentary groups who have already expressed their support for the motion for a resolution from my parliamentary group, DS, the SNS, LDP, PUPS, and not to mention everything, I also appeal to the parliamentary group of minorities, who today have put a certain reserve on whether or not to vote, but again I am happy that both Mr Varga and Mr Balint are also signatories of the motion for a resolution, and I believe that my tabled amendment is only corrected, I appeal to another parliamentary group that was today against the vote of the resolution, that we also consider, in the day of voting, we all vote together for a resolution that raises the authority of the National Assembly to all other participants in the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18287	Thank you. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a resolution. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a resolution in the voting day. We move to the next item of the agenda, a joint single search, on a proposal for a memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, on co-operation in the area of agriculture, on a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the recognition and acceptance of evidence on the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions for food and feed for plant, mixed origin and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in the field of plant health. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, for a joint single search on the proposals for the laws referred to in points 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, has called for the sittings to be attended by Milanka Davidovic, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Ivan Zivkov, Head of the Office of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Biljana Rangelovic, Head of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 10 to 13 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 170 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. The time of the debate by the parliamentary groups has come to you in material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170a of Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on Co-operation in Agriculture, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Food and Food Cooperation in the Veterans, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions for food and feed for plant, mixed, combined and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in the field of plant health. Does the proposalor's representative, Minister Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want a word? The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18288	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, very briefly. There are four laws ahead of us. laws confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on co-operation in the field of plant health, on cooperation in the veterinary field and on mutual recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions for food and feed for plant, mixed and combined origin and the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the field of agriculture. These are all standard acts, the text of the agreement, the memorandum, which are concluded between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the countries or states with which Serbia has or wants to achieve trade co-operation. These agreements with Montenegro were from March 2012 and the Memorandum with Turkey was set from 9th month 2011 and the government established the basis for the conclusion of these agreements and have been provisionally applied since the signing date. As you can see, the signatories were former Minister Dusan Petrovic, on our part, as I said the standard contracts we have with many countries. I see the Agriculture Committee has accepted it so I don't think there should be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18289	Thank you. Do the committees in charge want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18290	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'm really glad I can talk to you today about this subject that's the subject of these contracts. You're right completely, these are standard contracts but the opportunity is a little unstandard. It is good that we have these agreements, precisely because we can open one discussion in parliament on topics which are not often spoken in parliament. This topic I want to talk about, just another MP, and that's what the opposition MP was saying and somehow it turns out that the issue of veterinary and agricultural issues is in opposition with the Ministry of Agriculture. To tell you the truth, I don't know what's going on, but what I do know, and I'd like you to tell me the answer to the second part, what I don't know. So, as far as I know, you refused to receive representatives of the Veterinary Chamber, so one of the Esnafian associations, which requested a reception with you, I can see that you do not know and wonder, but the reception did not come for some reason, someone apparently removed what they were asking of you. It's a pure esnafian association, what I'm saying doesn't belong to my political party, not to your political party, all political parties need to deal with issues for the state's regulation, so it's perfectly natural for the minister to talk to people from the esnaf, actually from the veterinary chamber, because there are thousands and one reason and a thousand and one problem in this area, and I want to talk about whether, as a state, we can fulfill what's written in a contract called - co-operation, a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, in co-operation in the veterinary field. There's a very large list of jobs. I don't think I should read them because it'll take a long time, but I'll try to answer if we can do it, and I'd like to get the minister's opinion, which may be the opposite of mine. For each country, the veterinary profession is a strategic profession, because by caring for the health of domestic animals and for the health and safety use of meat, milk, eggs and meat products, milk and eggs, it is in the second line a first dam for Serbia's public health. It defends Serbia's public health. Unfortunately, in Serbia, it is not said in the Veterinary Law that it is a service of social importance. I don't know why it's not like that in Serbia. That's one of the questions we need to answer. It's the first part of the task that the veterinary profession needs to fulfil. The second part of those jobs to be completed is the organisation of the service, and that's what the state needs to establish, that organization, that vertical that the state needs to fulfill. This shows what kind of state this country is, how serious it is, and how much future partner it is to some other countries that want to co-operate in this area. Let's see what the situation in this area looks like. Since 1990, when the sale of the first veterinary cells started, it would be good and I don't know if there is a Mr. Minister, but it would be good if we had the effect of these measures to see how we went in that sale, what we got as a state of all that and what the effects were. So, since 1990, the fall of the profession began, until 2005 and the famous Krnjajic Law, which is what experts in this area call it because they want to remember who the author of that law that hit the biggest slap veterans? The Veterinary Law doesn't mention it at all. There's no such thing as cattle law. It's interesting to get an answer, not from you ministers, because you showed up this year or from last year you're a minister, but it's interesting to say, who can still be interested and directly competent in the livestock sector if there's no one in the veterinary profession? What else is very interesting? We have a lot of problems in this area. Where's the wind today? She's practically in the gray zone. That's what vets say, not me. Drug trafficking is in the gray zone. Seed transport is in the gray zone. The other day we had an affair that was open in the media about it. Veterinary work is at some high rate contrary to the law. We have numerous abuses. I must immediately remind you what is going on with that affair that took place in 2012 in connection with the forged number of sheep examined in Kragujevac, when some 45,000 imaginary sheep were examined? How far did this affair go? How does she get rid of herself? Are all the actors in that chain covered by the investigation, because it's interesting that someone for several years consecutively without any other help, let's say it's a field veterinarian, can do this kind of abuse, damage the state budget by about half a million euros? If the affair opens to the end, veterinarians count, they say the agriculture budget can be filled with a million euros, because this affair takes too long and is not only actors in that village shown in public, but they are across Kragujevac territory, so it would be interesting to look at it. They say the affair is being covered up because there are some from the top of another party, not yours, actors of the robbery. I don't like to say -- anti-corruption fighters. I really think that in our own way, in a human way, we support people who are fighting corruption, because that is the purpose of government work, but it would be good if this affair were resolved as soon as possible, because some money would be returned to the budget of the Veterinary Authority, which, interestingly, did not join the prosecution at all or seek the compensation of the funds that have been allocated, and it is directly in charge of those funds and should be directly interested in resolving this matter. It wasn't the first time that opened up like an affair, it's not the first time, it's happened more than once. Your co-workers at the ministry say they know more than once about the situation, but they can't talk about it. There has been no vaccine against swine fever in the veterinary market for almost a year. This is a very important and very big problem for this country, because the sea farms and veterinary cells have not been getting the quantities they need for over a year. They say that last month, I'm talking about southeastern Serbia, I'm talking about Nis, although my Kolubara County isn't a much better situation, they haven't vaccinated a single new throat that's reached the vaccination. I know that today or yesterday 680,000 vaccines entered the country, but I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, it's a drop in the sea, that's what would satisfy the Vojvodina market. This second part of Serbia is not yet covered by the team and is indeed very dramatic in some parts. I'm called cattlemen, people who are privates call me and say we can't sell one or two pigs at a simple market because people are asking for confirmation that they're vaccinated, and we can't do that. It's not the only problem on the drug market. We don't even have another vaccine. We also had a problem with animal rabies vaccines. What are we gonna do about it? In this contract, to return to swine fever, I haven't solved another dilemma. Here in this co-operation agreement with Montenegro, we also have a report on the spread of the disease. Is it possible that we still have swine fever and domestic and feral pigs in our territory? The epidemic that was in Vojvodina is one of the epidemics that may erupt across Serbia, if we cannot provide vaccines and if we do not have continuity in application, which must be applied continuously to give effect. Besides this vaccine, we don't have that vaccine against the rabies of domestic animals. We don't have a vaccine or anti-anthrax. Another point in this contract obliges us to report foot and foot, and we don't have a vaccine. We don't even have legally registered vaccines to vaccinate horses and cats. It's the same problem we're dealing with and being dealt with by vets on the ground. We don't have any other medicines, such as anaerobic infections, anaerobic infections or bovine respiratory disease. It's a problem that needs to be solved. How are we going to co-operate with someone, report to them about territory, about our territory, about the diseases that are spreading in our territory, or not having them, as we do among ourselves, and then we don't solve them, and then they roar at some other point and do damage to the state, like we've been hiding our problem with aflatoxin, and then babble, so we've done so much damage to the state, and now we're silent about it? How'd that work out from now on? I have to tell you, Minister, and I'm very glad I can say it to your eyes, because, well, you didn't want to hear this from those who knew it, you were getting rid of it by smuggling and illegal trading. That's how you get veterinary drugs. That's why I'm talking about the gray veterinary zone. Unfortunately, it's a question of both our producers and some of our institutions. Our producers are being seduced, unfortunately, we sold. It was without a lot of plans, without a lot of wisdom, unfortunately. That's what I think. Maybe that's exactly what the plan was to sell them and be dependent today on where we're going to introduce vaccines, which wholesales will be able to import vaccines from, from which territory we're going to introduce vaccines. Unfortunately, we don't ask much. One of those manufacturing offices was sold, believe it or not, because of city-building land, not the first or the last, but I certainly know about this one. I asked you a question today and I would like to hear it from you today, is that perhaps the answer to the question - is Serbia serious about preserving its production of vaccines and serums? This is very important for Serbia's market. Let's hear the answer. Now let's go back to another problem that will and will be difficult to resolve these contracts that are here ahead of us. It's a matter of measure program. I must remind myself that a programme of measures has once been adopted in Parliament. In parliament, the proposal was a minister and parliament adopted a programme of measures. Then came those "happy years" of this minister, many lobbies, who now unfortunately sits in prison, but also the state of Serbia has the consequence of his sitting in prison. At that time, by democratic procedure, the party was given veterinary territory. I have to ask you, why is the programme of measures late for you, during your ministry, six months? Now my question is that I really can't resolve alone, I don't see why – why two-thirds and, in general, the procedure for adopting this programme of measures was very strange? The profession did not receive any proposal on which she gave her comments and the rest, which was even at the time of Dragina, who completely centralized the matter, was possible when they received some proposal and when they wrote their comments, then a programme of measures appeared without two-thirds of the measures, which were even in that first version of which they commented. What's been kicked out of those measurement programs? That's what raises suspicion, because they're out of control. Surveillance is a very important measure. Here the surveillance of the effects of rabies on wild animals was cast out, then active measures by veterinarians, or farm tours. So all the measures you've given are actually surveillance measures that have been thrown out. How will you know how some measure has resulted, some action that you've done -- let's say, it's angered the foxes that, we're the last black hole in Europe that solves still its problem, and in the end, the EU has given us the funds, to solve it, and to throw it away and do it? How do we know how many of these baits were used if we don't have surveillance? That's the simplest thing. How do you know if the vaccination of those 680,000 vaccines gave you any effects, any results, if you don't have control? The worst thing about it was that people, veterinarians, field vets, were in contact with farm owners and people who kept cattle and maybe people could get some information of importance. I really don't know, but I think it's when you have control, it's important that you respect it. She's showing you the effect of all of it. I'd very much like you and I to talk now, as I speak, if that's possible? Therefore, there are 4.185 veterinarians in Serbia and public health rests on them. Unfortunately, this public health has been pretty ruined, not just by the bombing we're taking out. They're on the rise, say, cancers, fall in immunity, obstructive bronchitis in children. Does anyone have to wonder — how much of the veterinary professions in all of this? The vets say they'd like to talk about it. Finally, destroying the veterinary service, the state directly endangers the health of Serbian citizens. Then I get an answer to that – how it happened that the vet is no longer a service of state interest. That's kind of weird. What else is going to be a problem to resolve all these contracts we've been instructed here? It will represent the work of the veterinary inspection. When we talked about food safety here, if you remember, I asked you a bunch of questions about this profession. You told me - you'll get all the written answers, I don't know by heart. It's been a while, there's no answer. They're gone, believe me, and now I'm warning you to tell me that it's possible for you to have 480 veterinary inspectors, but that the jurisdiction of these veterinary inspectors is not regulated by law, because more than half of them have no license, which means they can't work on their own. What do you think can affect the work of people who don't have a license and who know they don't have a license and who aren't responsible for the workplace they're in? You betcha. The consequences of this act, or inaction, of course I can't say that you're responsible for all of what I'm saying here. You're least responsible, but to be fair, you inherited a hundred problems when you entered this area, you didn't solve any, you added a few dozen more, so now we have one even bigger mess. Let's see one more thing. In Serbia in 2005, today in 2013, eight years have passed, passed the Veterinary Law and are not yet veterinary specialists, 10 of them, and scientific institutes, two of them, as public services of particular social importance, are in line with the 2005 Law. Look, they haven't been able to get along yet. Why didn't they get along? It's very simple. It would finally end the monopoly among these organisations, and they now, based on an invalid law, mean the one there before in 2005, only on commercial transactions they get from the state, earn millions and billions of euros without a public competition. You have so many chosen, I do not count them, though I can list for you both the King and the Sabbath and the Jagodina and Nis. The paradox is even bigger when you look at this. So, they don't have a public competition, but veterinary stations and public and private, which also participate in these affairs, participate in a public competition and thus entrusted them with the job for three years. They're out of competition, they're having some public competitions now, they're getting jobs for three years, and the execution of these competitions is for another story. Another question that concerns food, which is also one of the things here. Let's see what condition our reference labs are in. Do they have equipment, what kind of equipment is that? Can she answer, say, problems when it comes to mycotoxins? We had this story with aflatoxin. Can you tell if our labs are, I don't want to ask the ones on the ground, the ones the vet should have, just the ones that are our reference, do they have any equipment? Perhaps you're not well aware of, let's just say you don't know the fact that people asked you to come and talk to you, those are the practitioners who want to keep their profession alive and live off their work, and not to worry about whether there's going to be an inspector who's going to shut down the station because they can't have veterinary medicines, they can't buy human beings to use for those purposes. It would be good if, if you want these contracts to be co-operated with in any way, you had to be a trust partner, a partner who could answer the challenges. I'm telling you right now, the wind can't respond to these challenges. Take care of it as soon as possible. We all carry the lives of citizens and the health of citizens on our souls if we don't see this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18291	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18292	Thank you very much, Mrs. Markovic. I listened very carefully to you this morning when you asked MP questions. You have raised these very few questions both about the program and about the drugs and about this affair in Kragujevac, and you yourself have mentioned and listed a series of problems that plague the veterinary system, but these are the universal things that affect our everyday life. Believe me, we're working and we're trying to get past all this stuff. Believe me, it's not easy. Take just an example of what you said, destroying our domestic production of vaccines, just take those two privatisations of the Veterinary Institute in Zemun and Subotica, which produced the largest number of these, take the problem we now had with swine fever. That these drugs existed on the lager, but they lost their accreditation before a certain time, so we couldn't get into the traffic, so, you know, immediately loops and import lobbys and everything happens. So there's a lot of problems. I'm not running away from talking about it, but I think it's necessary, as we talked about aflatoxin, as we talked about the economic situation in Serbia, it's not disputed to make an appointment with the president and then talk about all the issues. By the way, let me tell you, you said I refused to accept veterinary agents. No, believe me, everyone who applies, who wants to come to me, came to me, from the director of veterinary institutes to those institutes that I visited. Nothing's disputed. Anyway, I can do it whenever they want to. Just one more thing about the program. We noticed that we and most of the things you said were standing. We noticed that. So it's working on changing the program. We're late for objective and subjective reasons. There's a lot of subjective in our ministry alone. We changed three executives there. Let's move on. We're trying to do something. It's working on it, but it takes time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18293	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18294	Mr. Minister, I'm aware of what kind of nest you've entered. You mentioned in the first sentence of your answer the magic word – lobby. That's how it happened that you're wanted by people in the veterinary chamber. Believe me, people wouldn't lie like this, and they wouldn't ask me to lie. So, I know all this stuff you've been saying is standing, but I need to tell you these things because the public's health is compromised and I think it's a very serious moment for your reaction. What you're putting in the post of chief, in the leadership of the ministry of people who have very many butters on their heads, at the end of those proven butters on their heads, doesn't give any hope of having an open conversation here today without gloves. It would be good for people with no butter on their heads who are trusted by both you and their colleagues and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18295	Mrs. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18296	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the proposals for a bill to confirm important interstate agreements on co-operation in the area of agriculture. It is the three interstate agreements signed between the RS government and the CG government, as well as the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation issues in the area of agriculture between the RS government and the Republic of Turkey. Representatives of the RS and CG government signed agreements on cooperation in the veterinary, plant health and mutual recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with food conditions as well as food for animals of plant, mixed and combined origin. Serbia and Montenegro are countries directed at each other, countries linking common interests in co-operation in the various areas of economic, social and cultural life. The closeness, understanding and traditional commitment of both citizens and businesses, hence our two countries' agriculture in previous years, have made Serbia the main trading partner of Montenegro. The data suggests Montenegro is making the biggest imports from Serbia right now. Food and agricultural products dominate the structure of imported goods, which is a significant comparative advantage of our country. At the same time, the Montenegrin market is very important for Serbia, and in a trade with Montenegro, we are achieving a surplus. Despite excellent bilateral and economic co-operation, experts estimate that there are still untapped or insufficient potentials, i.e. there are still many opportunities to improve this co-operation. In this regard, it is extremely important and in the mutual interest, the creation of necessary preconditions that will facilitate this cooperation and make it more efficient and efficient. That is why agreements on co-operation in the area of agriculture between Serbia and Montenegro have been signed. The aim of these agreements is, above all, to facilitate trade in and exchange of plants and plant products, to protect the territory of the signatories of an agreement against the introduction and spread of plant diseases, to facilitate the transport of animals, products of animal origin, food for animals, veterinary medicinal products and medical products for use in the veterinary sector, to prevent the introduction of infectious animal diseases and to the health of harmful products and food of animal origin, to develop cooperation in the veterinary field. In addition, one of the agreements mentioned above lays down the principles of mutual recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions for food and feed for animals of plant, mixed and combined origin. On the basis of these objectives, I believe that an agreement in the veterinary field addresses important issues such as: veterinary and sanitary conditions for the import and transport of animals, products of animal origin, food for animals, food of animal origin, veterinary medicinal products and medical medicinal products for use in the veterinary medicinal product, the exchange of monthly reports on the condition of infectious diseases, the notification of outbreaks of infectious diseases, etc. This Agreement is also important because it provides for the improvement of the cooperation of our scientific and professional animal protection institutions, provides for mutual assistance in the production and procurement of the necessary means to combat diseases and the treatment of animals, as well as the cooperation of veterinary services and a number of other joint activities that are in mutual interest, and are in line with those objectives of the signed agreement. The Agreement on Co-operation between the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro in the area of plant health also decides the obligations of signatories to the agreement of which are the most important mutual notification of lists and the occurrence of harmful organisms, herbs, plant products, notification of the phytosanitary measures taken, of the fight against them, etc. And this agreement provides for co-operation in the field of the exchange of rules on plant protection, exchange of experiences and scientific achievements in the field of plant protection, exchange of professional magazines, monographs, publications in this area, etc. The third agreement signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro concerns mutual recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions for food and food for animals, plant, mixed and combined origin. This is an extremely important agreement, as it regulates issues such as: the conditions of import and transport of food shipments, the recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions for food on the basis of authorised and accredited laboratories, issues related to evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions of food, importing country and the like. It is clear that this agreement also seeks to facilitate mutual trade while maintaining a prescribed level of protection of life and human and animal health. I believe it is extremely important and that the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of agriculture should certainly be confirmed. It addresses issues important for bilateral co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the Republic of Turkey in the fields of plant production, livestock, veterinary, plant health, the implementation of joint projects in the area of agriculture in food processing, packaging, marketing, etc. The memorandum provides for the exchange of information from experts, the results of studies, training, the organisation of seminars, as well as the resolution of possible issues. Starting from this, I believe that agreements and the Memorandum of Understanding between the governments of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey are extremely important, as they contribute to the development of the overall economic relations between the signatories, co-operation in the area of agriculture, provide the basis for improving co-operation in the area of agriculture and food production between signatories, support and encourage the exchange of agricultural and food products. For this reason, I believe that the proposed agreements and the Memorandum are extremely important and important, because they are in a comprehensive way governing the issues to which they relate, while at the same time enabling the better positioning of the Republic of Serbia on the international market for agricultural products. In view of the fact that agricultural production is one of our country's most significant development goals, these agreements certainly gain more importance. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, in voting day, will support ratification of these agreements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18297	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18298	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we today have several international agreements and the usual debate on the ratification of international contracts passes in this assembly quite undetected, without much debate, and in the day to vote they mostly pass without much dispute, even the very sides of the opposition. I am here today, which is why I came to the floor, for an eye fell one provision in the law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, which says in Article 2 - the parties will achieve co-operation in the following areas, and one says: plant production, seed industry, plant oils, cereals, vines, etc. I would say, unfortunately, we adopted here three months ago, the ruling coalition of the Treaty on Plant and Genetic Resources in the area of agriculture and food industry, which essentially confirmed the contract that was adopted in 2001 and came into effect when it was ratified by 40 countries. Serbia only adopted the agreement early this year and thus all the obligations it has made. They are, I must say, disastrous for our agriculture, first of all for plant resources, they are devastating for our two institutes, the Institute of Ratio and Vrvatstvo from Novi Sad and for the Institute of Corn from Zemun Polje for several reasons. That is why the provisions of this agreement we sign with Turkey and that contract are very similar. There is even a question of the need for this Treaty provision with Turkey, because I think Turkey is the signator of this contract. What exactly is this about? It is the fact that by signing this agreement on plant and genetic resources in the area of agriculture and food industry, the Republic of Serbia has made a commitment to all its plant resources, all of its plant potentials that have been generated for years and years of work, geneticists and other experts in these two renowned institutes. They are among the five or ten most renowned institutions in the area in the world, and the only ones, as state institutes, are among the ten renowned houses. So we have committed to making our plant and genetic resources available to other signatories countries. What's the problem? The problem is that our plant and genetic resources are not protected as intellectual property, or less than 1% of plant resources are protected, and over 99% is not protected. It's not a patent right, it's some kind of intellectual property, like a sui geneis that protects itself by a special institute, it's called the protection of plant varieties. So our plant varieties aren't protected. Why is Serbia in a specific position? Because all the serious countries, whose agriculture and the creation of plant and genetic resources are one of the national interests, have protected their plant varieties, so in the most developed countries of the West, the level of protection is 99%, and we have a degree of protection of 1%. From this international treaty, those who have protected their plant and genetic resources by intellectual property do not have the obligation to make these genetic resources available to others, and that means neither to us, and I have already said that we have an obligation. They're recommended that they do it. That they won't do it, I'm sure of it. This even shows the practice in this area, where one of the world's renowned houses, that I'm not even mentioning it now, even patented the terminator code for some of its plant species. What does that mean? This means that this plant species, when planted this year, has no seed for next year, it practically destroys it and has no opportunity for a farmer, as it is said in international law, to sow seed from the attic. So there is no seed, because the plant itself has destroyed itself for the next generation, so as far as the protection of intellectual property in the world has arrived. I ask you Ministers - why after 12 years, without giving enough time to the institutes to protect their plant varieties with the help of the state, because they don't have the money, it's a few thousand new plant varieties that are not protected and that's hundreds of thousands of euros they don't have, why didn't you leave them time and give them the help of the state to protect these plant varieties? You're giving them to the Turks now, and I don't know who. They have already been given this international contract, they have been given to all the countries that are signatories of this contract, from this contract that has come into force these days, since the period of entry into force of 90 days from the deposit, or signature of ratification, has come into force these days, and all our plant varieties will be available to multinational seed companies, which may be able to protect these varieties tomorrow. There is especially in danger of corn, sunflower and other plant varieties that reproduce in specific ways, where anyone will be able to protect our plant varieties that we have failed to protect as intellectual property. Of course, colleague Vojić Markovic has raised many questions concerning the veterinary and other matters mentioned in these contracts. I would be very willing if you would answer us today some questions concerning very current matters, such as a drastic drop in agricultural exports, ever since this government came to this position where it is, to tell us what will happen with the promise that aflatoxin will come to 0.05, that is promised by the Deputy Prime Minister. It's not gonna happen. Our exports to the dairy industry are practically zero. Our credibility is at stake in the world. What about the subsidies? What about the announcements that the agricultural budget, and is it true, will be seriously threatened and that farmers will not be able to be paid even such low subsidies that are being devoid of inflation and the rise in the price of the euro and the growth of all re-romitries on the market? A lot of other questions I would ask you, Minister, but I don't want to come out of the context of the topic, but I would like to hear the answers – do you even know what the consequences of the contract that came into effect the other day, concerning plant and genetic resources, and whether you had any conversations with our institutes, to reduce the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18299	Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18300	Mr. Veselinović, I take this as a good recommendation that for the future, when we sign these agreements and these kind of memos, we pay attention to that and I thank you very much here and I promise that we will pay attention. Today's topic is, as I said, these three agreements and one memorandum signed since 2011 and 2012, signed by the former government minister, Mr Dusan Petrovic, so I am interested, since you were together until yesterday, whether you asked him about this because by signing 2011 and 2012, I am automatically applying these agreements. Therefore, I can neither change this nor can I do anything about it. I understand this, as I said, as very well-meaningly, I also thank you for all the future contracts and agreements that we will sign, I will take into account this remark of yours, because I agree in part with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18302	Thank you. I'd just like you to ask Mr. Petrovic for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18303	MP Vesna Stepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18304	Thank you, Honorable President, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Co-operation in the field of agriculture aims to contribute, through co-operation and rope, to the integration of two states, Serbia and Turkey in the area of agriculture, to ensure that this business branch in our country is affirmed in the right way and that, through investments in agriculture and later, through the food industry, our agricultural capacities are revitalised. It is no doubt that the Ministry of Agriculture is making great efforts to improve our agricultural potential both quantitatively and qualitatively. First of all, I think of it through an increase in the volume of the exchange of agricultural and food products, which contributes to a greater level of employment of our production capacities in the area of agriculture, and thus to an increase in the number of employees, especially the survival of young people in the country. This positive consequence of Serbia and Turkey's agricultural co-operation has been caused by other and more positive consequences: the development of economic relations with a rich economic and economically powerful country, such as Turkey, then the introduction of new technologies and technological processes in the area of agricultural production, and thus the rise, i.e. the improvement of the quality of agricultural products. In addition to the quality of agricultural products and their processing, it is necessary to work on making attractive packages of the same, which would thus be more attractive to customers and thus placed on the foreign market, also connecting businesses from Serbia with enterprises from Turkey dealing with agricultural production. Also, frequent visits by our agricultural producers would lead to exchanges of information and experience in the area of agricultural production, which would further facilitate the management of their production, then, joint projects in the fields of agriculture, livestock, attractive sources of energy and the like. The adoption of this law and the confirmation of a memorandum of understanding between the government of the two countries will allow us to further stimulate exports and these agricultural products through the concept of organic food production in our country. The special importance of the law is manifested through the definition of the legal basis and the legal framework for Serbia-Turkey's co-operation in the area of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18305	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18306	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable President of the Assembly and the Honorable Ministers, on agreements, as you said, these are type agreements, there is not much to say and I would not convince agreements, I would only say something that is important, and what we talked about today on the Committee on Agriculture. I will begin with a memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of agriculture. This memorandum, as we have heard, is already signed on the Turkish side, and remains only to sign our side. The aim of the memorandum is to strengthen existing friendly relations and improve co-operation between our two countries, especially in the area of agriculture. Our common goal is to improve overall economic co-operation with our friends, as well as cooperation in all areas, including agricultural production and the transport of agricultural products. The further objective of the memorandum is to remove non-tariff barriers and to place goods on both markets, i.e. facilitating the traffic of goods across borders. The memorandum provides for the harmonisation of certificates accompanying various goods. In short, accepting this memo and on our part will make it easier to move goods across borders and further friendly co-operation. We also have three agreements on the agenda between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. These are: agreement on cooperation in the veterinary field, agreement on mutual recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with the conditions on food and food for animals, plant, animal and combined origin and the Agreement on the field of plant health. These three agreements with the Republic of Montenegro could technically take place in one, or instead of those three, could be one agreement. These three agreements aim to remove non-tariff barriers and various regulations, to facilitate co-operation and cross-border trade between our two countries and to maintain a prescribed level of protection of human and animal health. These agreements increase confidence in our various and Montenegrin services that issue various certificates. It is important to say that such agreements are signed or already signed with all CEFTE countries from neighbouring countries, especially from countries of the former Yugoslav republics, because the aim of this agreement is to facilitate the placement of our agricultural products, increase traffic and improve co-operation with all our neighbours, and beyond. As I said, agreements are typical and are of interest to Serbia, of course other parties to the agreement, and in the day of voting, our parliamentary group will accept these agreements and memoranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18307	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers of Knezevic, as well as my predecessors, will not say anything new if I say that the usual standard acts signed by the state of Serbia are with countries with which it has good trade and economic relations or with countries with which it wants to improve even more. The draft law confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of agriculture is a broad agreement which, in addition to what we have already heard in the debate, also gives the possibility of joint action in the area of agriculture, joint investment. I want to take this opportunity to ask Mr. Knezevic to engage himself in this area, because there are many areas in the Republic of Serbia where the Turks could invest, and we need foreign investment through us. One of these areas is also the Caverska Visoravan, where there are exceptional conditions for the development of livestock, and the former ministers who have travelled, I don't mean the Ministers of Agriculture, but those who have travelled the most in the past government and in this visit to Turkey, have not brought in a single investment so far, so I am taking the opportunity to ask Mr Knezevic to engage personally in this area, because this area is of exceptional importance for the population, especially in the border areas towards Montenegro, in the area of Pester, where the Bosniak People's Party acts. I, as a member of the Bosniak People's Party and, of course, a member of the SNS parliamentary group, use this opportunity to appeal to it. When it comes to confirming an agreement with Montenegro, and this agreement on cooperation in the veterinary field, on co-operation in the field of plant health, on mutual acceptance and recognition of evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions for food and food for animals of plant and mixed origin, I would like to say that Montenegro is also an extremely important neighbouring country, because it is a country that used to act with Serbia and other former Yugoslav republics of common space, a common market, that already established ties and trade co-operation. Also, when it comes to these agreements, it is important for both the country in general and the border municipalities on both sides of the border, where I had the opportunity to get a lot of complaints and demands in conversation with people, because at the official border crossing of the caves, located in the municipality of Tutin, that is so-called. Meh's cross, widely known, does not exist a phytosanitary inspection, i.e. a phytosanitary inspector and people have a lot of problems about it. There is probably some jurisdiction and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Customs Administration, but I also use the opportunity to ask you to try it as a resolution minister, and I also don't know if the local self-government asked the Ministry of Agriculture, and it was supposed to ask if it wasn't, to hire you to get a phytosanitary inspection at that border crossing and to make it easier for citizens who deal with trade and trade in goods in that border area and, of course, for all other people who are involved in importing and exporting goods in Serbia, above all our citizens who deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18309	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18310	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of agriculture is of paramount importance for the exchange of experiences in the area of agriculture and sustainable rural development. The Republic of Turkey, thanks to government incentives in the agricultural sector, skipped the agricultural development of four European countries, France, Spain, Italy and Russia, and of 190 countries with 11 seats took seventh place on the world ranking list of developed countries in the area of agriculture. Based on this, it can be concluded that Turkey is the most developed country in Europe in terms of agricultural development. This memorandum regulates co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey in the field of plant production, seed industry, cereals, vines, livestock, feed plant, fisheries, veterinary and plant health. The memorandum provides for the implementation of various projects in the fields of agriculture, livestock, food processing, product packaging and marketing promotion. The memorandum of co-operation also envisions the improvement of jobs in rural areas and its development, the development of agriculture and education on alternative sources of energy in greenhouses. The integration of the two countries' private agricultural sectors has brought together economic and economic activity and information exchanges, experts' visits, seminars, the results of studies and staff education are compared. On the basis of this, it is concluded that the aim of the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of agriculture is to contribute to the mutual interest in the economic and economic development of the two countries and to improve co-operation between agricultural institutions in the area of agriculture and agricultural technology. This memorandum creates the basis for establishing business links between the two countries' agricultural and food industries, which extends and strengthens economic and economic co-operation and strengthens the friendly relations of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey. Due to the exceptional importance of this memorandum of understanding in the area of agriculture, the SNS parliamentary group's voting day will vote in favour of a bill confirming the memorandum of understanding between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on co-operation in the area of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18311	He has the word Marian Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as president of the People's Peasants' Party and as a farmer, I am very delighted with the great presence of the National Assembly when discussing these topics. When lawyers and doctors were on the agenda, it was all a lot, when it came to agriculture, and it wasn't an election campaign, we can count the majority members and members of the minority. In some cases, tomorrow's election, I think we're all going to break our legs together by going through stables, pigs and chickens. I think we're so harassing the cattle with these election campaigns, I'm worried about the mental health of our animals. When it was dry last year, and when that topic was urgent, it was so narrated, especially on the other side, no matter what we had just educated the government, that I thought we didn't need bay systems. It was enough to take those conceits out into the fields while they were crying, and we shouldn't have any water system at all. There were so many tears we could've had for five years that we had good decent crops. As far as these regulations and agreements are concerned, they should above all make it easier to trade with Montenegro. With Montenegro in this area, we have a big surplus. So, only with regional surrounding markets do we have a trade surplus, and with all the other countries we're almost at a deficit. With this in mind, regardless of what he signed in time and in force, former Agriculture Minister Dusan Petrovic, who was then also the deputy president of the ruling regime, so the main headquarters of the ruling regime, I will still vote for it, because I think this agreement promotes relations not only in agriculture but overall relations between us and Montenegro. Therefore, special attention should always be paid to Montenegro, given that 186,000 people who plead as Serbs live there and who love Serbia more than we do. They are in a very difficult position and any co-operation with Montenegro, regardless of whether with the current regime or with the opposition, contributes to making them feel better and more comfortable at times when they find it very difficult in that country. This agreement, apart from agricultural and trade functions, has in some way a political dimension, and that is some reflection of our patriotism towards that people who live there under more difficult conditions than the citizens of Serbian nationality in Croatia today, and I will dare say it only on my own behalf. These agreements will allow us to trade more easily, but our budgets, our situation in agriculture left to us, our situation in various controls, from phytosanitary to others, from the situation found in agriculture where mostly the party of the former regime served agriculture and served the state, and it served neither agriculture nor the state nor farmers, is such that we can take a comfortable grip on the head and stick to it for a year. The latest actions of the Ministry of Agriculture, and we know this and the minister will confirm it, when controlling the warehouse, have shown that the previous controls carried out by the relevant ministries, first and foremost until the former regime's party was complete, were fixed and the result of this control was the affair with aflatoxin. To hide and cover up a criminal affair of goods shortages in stock reserves, the Aflatoxin affair was designed. If the corn is aflatoxic and is declared such, then the warehouses do not have to deliver it, because it is infected, it is not good for feeding cattle and therefore cannot be delivered to cattlemen. That criminal affair was covered up until a few days ago, a week ago, when it was discovered that corn was not aflatoxic, corn was gone. And they've declared over 50,000 tons, almost every second or third kilogram in stock reserves, aflatoxin. It was covered up while it could be covered up. Now it's more than clear that there's a regional secretary who has an apartment in Vienna who's been working for the benefit of our damage. The Aflatoxin affair has not only affected the cover-up of stockpiles, but also the introduction of our country itself as an infected area. That's where the corn exports stopped. The corn was the first branch, the first product we exported and the value of that export was 500m euros. Before the "Aflatoxin" affair launched by a top party official of the former regime, corn was sold on stock markets by over 250 euros. Let the minister correct me if I'm wrong. After the affair, which was invented to cover up losses in stock reserves, the corn is worth 170 euros per tonne. He lost a third of his value. It is not difficult to calculate that our country lost over 100m euros on corn exports just because someone wanted to cover up a criminal affair that occurred during the former regime, someone who dared to do so, and as a state, we lost 100m euros because the prices fell and corn exports from our country fell. It was all broken on the back of agricultural producers, farmers. And to make the crime even bigger and worse for farmers, it happened after the most dry year in the last 20 years that I have been following droughts in Serbia. After one of the most dry years, to launch such an affair – it's more than criminal. It is a crime and almost a true genocide against farmers in Serbia who have only made it to cover up the misdeeds that have been happening in its municipality, as well. As a friend of the former assistant trade minister, he forgot to tell us that in the territory of his municipality, at a warehouse that was their personal friend, the greatest shortages were discovered. Let the minister deny me if that is not true because, 22 million and 500 thousand kilos of grain were missing in the warehouse of that very former president of the Indji municipality and a very concerned circuit secretary for agriculture, who was so concerned about animal health that he declared over 50,000 tonnes of corn aflate and thus made a loss to the peasants, after the most dry year, and thus to the state, over 100m euros. Have the minister deny me if I'm wrong. I think the former deficits we discovered immediately upon arrival, and the current ones that were hidden, that it was somewhere around 150,000 tons of grain. If we were to take the tow truck, we could sort it out, the lack of grain is so much that we could sort out what's missing in the trucks that would be driving from Podgorica to Novi Sad. There's so much missing from the grain stores in the last four, five years. Thanks to the lack of this control, lack of regulations, lack of goodwill, thanks to various affairs, thanks to the desire to fill pockets, to make people full of pockets, and not to allow peasants to feel something in their pocket, therefore missing a column of trucks from Novi Sad to Podgorica. No one's ever answered for that before today. It's not just the last affair. In September, a list of what they thought was not to be covered up. Faces in September who lacked this from the stock reserves were filed only by some who falsified criminal charges, litigation was conducted, some bonds were released which had no coverage, etc. What else is there to say about the fact that agriculture served primarily, not the country, not the peasants, not the citizens, but primarily to fill tycoon bills that were personal friends of ministers in the former regime and in the former government? Should I remind myself that in one combination, let the minister deny me, the false plague of pigs declared, that 10,000 passengers were missing, that it was written that they were infected, were taken to the slaughterhouse and were slaughtered in private and sold? Do I need to remind myself of the vineyards that aren't there? Should I say that in only one municipality, the state paid two million euros in incentives for vineyards, and that the vineyards that should be worth about five million euros are simply gone. The money is spent, the vineyard is gone, the investigation is under way. Who will eventually come out as a winner remains to be seen, because those who have robbed so much money also have money to bribe various reformed, unformed and deformed judicial authorities. Is it necessary to say that the circuit funds have been paid, and that I be denied by the minister, the gulf systems that are not there? At the next session, I'll bring you data that people who received over 30m euros for bay systems, who absolutely had no water potential for this type of bay system, were 10 or 15km away from the rivers and canals from which to power that bay system. These gulf systems are gone, but the money was placed and most likely shared between the province's officials and farmers, who, miraculously, were given more than 300,000 euros from the sky by circumstances. Should I say that I also found them on the list of donors of the former regime, with 230 thousand dinars? Did someone just give 300,000 euros for a bay system they didn't have, in which case they found control that would determine that they had it, and I don't believe it? So, in agriculture, we had an affair until the affair, so there was no money for incentives. Our incentives were lower by ten times more than in Croatia. Croatia is at 800,000 hectares and 400,000 pastures, they predominate pastures, shared incentives of around 700m euros. In Serbia, it was about 20m euros per four million hectares and only this year has it been doubled. And for the sake of truth, for farmers to know, we have passed the law within the time limit as the Assembly in incentives, the ministry has done its part in time and everything that late payments of premiums, subsidies, is not a mistake to this assembly, not to the government, not to the majority, not to the minority, not to the opposition, not to the Ministry of Agriculture, is a mistake to the Ministry of Finance, which is to pay for what we have established by law, and the Ministry has passed it on. So, the truth is, our agricultural producers know, the premiums and subsidies no longer depend on either the Assembly or the Ministry of Agriculture, they depend mainly on the Ministry of Finance. If there's anything I've done wrong in my presentation, I'm asking the Minister to correct me. I'm sure as president of the NSS, I'll vote for these laws. This spreads our market, regional influence, and God forbid the Minister of Agriculture has as much money as we've invested in Fiat. I think that we could raise to 300,000 landlords by 10,000 euros, at least through livestock, meat and milk processing, so that with the money we invested in Fiat, we could raise each of them by 10,000 euros, correct me if I'm wrong, and that every year we have two to three billion more social products than we have now. Unfortunately, he doesn't have that money now, that money is spent. Lived off the man in charge, didn't live off the money, now we have to live off the money and still pay back what they spent lightly while they were living off the man in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-13-0.u18313	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Co-operation in Agriculture, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in the Veteran Area, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions for food and feed for plant, mixed, or combined origin and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in the field of plant health. We'll continue working on Tuesday 18 June at 10.00 hours.
