ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30204	Dear Minister, our amendment concerns reduced transfers to local self-government by 1.8 billion dinars. The reduction in the transfer to local self-government is, in my deep conviction, the result of your extremely defensive approach to budgeting. I will return to one of my colleagues' amendments, specifically fellow Mladjan Dinkic, which you have not accepted, concerning the aggressive deleveraging and reduction of the burdens we have through the interest in this budget. We now have a situation that our local self-government has significantly less resources and is not only a tragedy in this, but also in perspective, for the next budget next year will have even smaller resources. Not just local self-government, but most users of the budget's resources. That's the consequence of that approach. If we don't reduce the burden of interest, we won't be able to create pre-conditions and this business environment, which we were talking about here, which among other things I assume is the construction of infrastructure, roads. So, my colleagues were discussing yesterday exactly that we don't have the resources for elemental things. Communal systems in municipalities are on the verge of survival, over-indebted, not paying fuel, not having money to invest, not having money to maintain. We have one completely paradoxical situation. On the one hand, subsidies to attract foreign investment are abolished, funds to local self-government are abolished, infrastructure is not done. How do you plan on attracting investors? This way it's really not possible. It all comes down to what many colleagues here have told you. They're vain victims, it's a waste of profit cuts, it's a waste of all these donations, if we're going to have new cuts again next year, new restrictions, and ever-increasing commitments in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30205	The amendment was submitted by MP Radmila Gerov to article 7 of sections 16 and 22. Does anyone want a word? National MP Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30206	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, this is the third amendment I have submitted, and it is related to the development of project documentation for the Corridor East. It is a corridor that is to connect Corridor 10, which passes through Serbia, and Corridor 4, which goes through Romania and Bulgaria. Our country wants to become an EU member, and I think we are all completely in agreement here. If so, then we must follow what is happening in Europe. In August of this year, the European Commission decided on new corridors. For the period from 2014 to 2020, 26 billion euros have been allocated, to finance the roads that connect these corridors and to build ports. The creation of this project documentation would create an opportunity for the economic development of eastern Serbian municipalities, which is 13 municipalities in four districts. This includes, in addition to road infrastructure, railway infrastructure, i.e. The merger of "The Railway of Serbia" with "The Railway of Bulgaria" in neighbouring Romania and the development of ports such as Luka "Prahovo", in Donji Milanovac. It's really the interest of this country. Corridor 4 ranks more than Corridor 10 in the EU. I really don't think 0.02% of the Republic's budget is much to draw up project documentation. Last night, Mr. Krstic, I said that if the budget is well-designed, you certainly won't be using the current budget reserve before September or October, because if some of the funds are missing, it can be done by changing the appraisal. This amendment does not increase the budget deficit, the same income and income remains, the same expenditure, but I believe it is the country's interest to draw up such project documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30207	Member of the 7th Divisions 16 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Mr. Milicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30208	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, I think that during the debate on the budget, and the discussions that we have had, when we add it all together, and the conversation that we have had within the Parliament club, that is, on the route of the Parliament club, you as Minister and representative of the Ministry, this is the third or fourth time that I try to impose one and the same topic for one simple reason, so that you and your associates understand the importance and this time I am talking about the amendment that I have submitted through the explanation, through the reasons why I have submitted the amendment, to try again for you and the representatives of the Ministry to know what is important and the importance of the issue that we have discussed in the past days and that we are talking about today. Today, I'm going to start with a few facts. I don't think, not by your mistake, with those facts, you don't seem to get to know each other very well either. I want to remind you first, as early as 1998, the Kolubara County hit a devastating earthquake with an epicenter in Mionica. The total damage estimated at that time was 6.1 billion dinars. On average, when it comes to damage, there were about 56% of housing facilities, 24% were municipal and infrastructure facilities and 20% public and business facilities. All of them somewhere, based on different grounds of damage, were damaged, exactly 18,000 objects. In 1999, the Go is the fact that you are familiar with, is formed Directorate for Reconstruction and Development, Rehabilitation of Houses and Objects that were destroyed in an earthquake which the Kolubar County hit in 1998. The Directorate was established with only one clear goal, that through the Directorate, and by means of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, under the law that was passed, it seems to me, in 1998, to be checked, to be resolved in full and to remove the consequences of this devastating earthquake to the citizens of the Kolubar district. As time went by, and especially in the period from 2000 to today, over time, the funds allocated through the Republic of Serbia's budget were reduced to this particular purpose. This has made it much more difficult and prolonged overall recovery and recovery over the past period of time. In 2013, in a few days and in 2014, in January 2014, at least as stated in the reasons for not accepting this amendment, formally legal and ceases to exist, but what is a fundamental issue and what is the essential thing is that, unfortunately, complete renewal and recovery, after many years, is not yet fully completed. During the debate in principle, we made it very clear that this budget is realistic and we said that savings should and must be a priority in the economic crisis. Also, on the other hand, we made it very clear - that reforms. But you know how, we said that and during the debate in principle, there are things that can't be saved at this point. We don't think it can be saved to solve what are citizens' life issues. When it comes to reforms, and we said that during the debate in principle, of course, reforms, but not reform over the knees, but reforms in one responsible way, in the interests of citizens, and not on the burden of the socially vulnerable categories of the population, which is extremely important. You know, Mr Krstic, the authorities in Serbia are variable, parliamentary majority and government are variable and that's democracy, but the relationship to what life issues are, as far as the SPS parliamentary club is concerned, should never be variable. After I can't, I also said that during the debate in principle, the consequences of one elemental accident being the responsibility of only the current government in whose mandate the elemental disaster took place, but every subsequent government, until a complete recovery and reconstruction is completed. So I proposed an amendment to Article 7, with several clear core objectives. The first goal is to really understand the importance and importance of the question I'm talking about. The second reason is to try to get you to think first of all about the decision when it comes to the lack of a Directorate in the next period of time. The third reason is to find a common way to address this issue that is of paramount importance and importance to the citizens of the Kolubara County. Given that, according to the list of priorities set by the Council of Directorates on which I am talking, a very precise and clear line has been drawn, and it is defined that at this moment, or not at this point, but that there are 300 objects that are not renewed, that the total value is about 500 million dinars, and I understand, above all, seeing the real economic power, the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, I have proposed that the consequences of 35 of the next year be recovered, and I have very clearly defined the criteria. I took three parameters. The first parameter is that it is housing that represents the only place of residence for these families, and they are damaged in the earthquake. The second is that it's about multi-member families that have three and more members, families that have children. The third parameter is that it is families that unfortunately are users of the Social Labour Centre. So it's about the most socially endangered categories of the population. I completely agree, savings should and must be a priority, but there are things that can't be saved at this point because this is the life issue of these citizens. In an explanation that I have received as a failure to accept the amendments that I have submitted, it stands among other things a few findings and I want to simply try to explain something that personally represents an open question for me at this point. So you made it clear that the government's conclusion in October 2013 that the Directorate should stop working in January 2014, that this is also the decision of the Council of the Directorate, which makes up all municipalities, i.e. representatives of the municipalities of the Kolubar district, and that a housing agency should be formed to take over the employees of the Directorate. This first finding, it is generally known that the government has made a decision and that the Directorate will not formally exist in 2014, it is nothing new. But what I want to tell you when it comes to the Council's decision, as far as I know, and you can also check and see, that's not what the Council's decision was made. It is a kind of recommendation and a proposal for a way that can be continued in the next period of time. As far as the housing agency is concerned, the proposal for the establishment of a housing agency is a proposal that was made on the basis of a consultation of the representatives of the Directorate and the Secretary-General of Construction. But I also want to tell you that, when it comes to forming a housing agency, at this point neither of these stories unfortunately has anything, no paper has been done, no document, no act. Also, the reasons for not accepting the amendments stated that there was no claim and no debt to the Directorate, that is, according to what the Directorate had done in the past period of time. I told you, from 2000 to today, funds have been reduced from year to year. The Directorate worked as much as she had the funds, and the funds were determined on the basis of the budgets at the beginning of the year. So for the last year it was 25 million dinars. I am convinced that the Directorate would restore all 300 objects and that it could have done so over the past period that it had the opportunity to find 500 million dinars from the republican budget. Unfortunately, that wasn't reality. It seems to me that somehow in the wrong way, what I wanted to ask was a fundamental question. So it's not my fundamental question -- is there going to be a Directorate in the next period of time? You know how, you bring up workers here. Workers are important, but at this point they're not important to me. For me, the most important thing is whether the next time period will continue to resuscitate and rebuild objects that were destroyed in the earthquake in 1998. The more important question is whether this recovery will be completed in full during the next period of time. So we are fully realistically looking at economic strength and the possibility of budgeting. We know that 500 million dinars cannot be provided in one budget year, but it is very important that very clearly and precisely together, if there is a will, we make a long-term strategy, we make dynamics, we define deadlines, and we solve this issue which, I repeat, is of the utmost importance and importance for the citizens of the Colubarian County. There are several ways, and I have proposed only one by amendment and I think it is realistic at this point, given that the Directorate still formally exists. There is another way, the second mode, the second alternative, however, that the reconstruction continues in the next period of time from the funds of the Republic budget through the Ministry of Construction, without the funds being directed through the Directorate, unless there is a Directorate, but through local self-government, or construction directorates of local self-government that would do this job in the next time period. So there are many ways if there is an understanding and a will to solve this issue. I have submitted the amendment, but it is always possible to correct the amendments and define what is a common interest. This is neither a political issue nor a party issue, and I ask you once again to understand the importance and importance of this issue and try to come up with a solution to the common forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30209	Thank you. The amendments, together with correction, were submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic, Nebojsa Zelenović and Zlatko Dragosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30210	Dear President of the Assembly, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members, our amendment refers to the fact that local communities do not reduce the budget transfer for 2013. We talked about it a little bit and in principle, and now we want to say a few more sentences about it, because we think it is very important and very important, because without the development of local communities, local self-government does not even have the development of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that most local self-government will be hit hard by this reduction and will be in big trouble, that many small municipalities will not even be able to pay their workers' profits, because most of these small municipalities are practically the only source or most of the source right from the transfer. When we deny them that, then they will come to ruin. I think, Minister, you need to think hard before you make a decision about small communities. If this is not achieved, in addition to the fact that small municipalities will not be able to pay salaries or larger municipalities, even larger cities will not be able to invest anything, so 2014 will be a mere survival for them. We know that without new investments, we won't be able to bring new investors, and so we enter a vicious circle, where we're going to spin and fall deeper and deeper, because without new investments, there's no new employment, and without new employment, there's no new income and we're going to get into a chain round. Speaking of investments, I would like to ask you to answer me, if you know, whether the government is considering continuing the project of building the highway Pojate - Preljina, because it is vital for several central Serbian cities including my Kruševac but also Trstenik, Kraljevo, Čačak. Without that road, this part of Serbia will hardly be able to develop, the central part of Serbia. I repeat the question - will the government continue the project of building the highway Pojate – Preljina? It's been talked about for ten years, for the past few years it's been said that the work is about to begin, but unfortunately it's been a year and a half since the start of the work of the new government, and there's nothing since the trip. The second part of our amendment refers to agriculture, and I want to say a few sentences here. We suggested that 400 million be transferred from one cont to another, or to agriculture, so that a irrigation system could be built. Because we have a situation that every year, out there in September, we realize that the drought was catastrophic, that we lost, I don't know how many million euros, because of that drought, and we're doing nothing to prevent it. So, I'm sure, this year we'll be in a position to find out in August or September that the drought was abnormal, that that's why we lost tens of millions of euros and so on. Instead of going to solve the problem we take from agriculture and give to someone else. So everybody's talking about it, but everybody's doing the opposite. We also suggested that one part of the money be directed to advisers and that it was a project that was launched in the past government and that it had produced excellent results, and it was not a political project that is now being proven and we think it's a little detachment for what can be done through agriculture to come back. So we ask you to reconsider, and we have made a proposal that should be taken from, and given for local self-government and agriculture, which is from subsidies that go to public service, television. So seven and a half billion are foreseen there, we say half to be taken and given to agriculture and local communities, and the other half to make up for it, that the citizens, instead of 500 dinars, will pay 250 dinars, monthly subscriptions. We don't think it's a big expense for citizens, and on the other hand we're going to get a lot, both for local communities and for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30211	62 MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 7 of Sections 16 and 27 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic to article 7 of Sections 16 and 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30212	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reading this budget with pointless items, I also found an item where you intend to mark the anniversary of World War I to spend 70 million dinars. Then I read your party bulletin where Aleksandar Vukic says Serbia has turned the course of its history. Then I have to wonder how late you guys are at the time you live in. For twenty-three years, Alexander Vukic was supposed to understand that Serbia's future was in the EU, and for 14 years, the course of history turned past...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30213	Mr. Milivoevich, please return to the amendment. I understand your desire to politically color your speech, but you still have to bring it into contact with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30214	Please, don't interrupt me, here, I'll explain a lot more plastic. Fourteen years ago, it took you to realize that the course of history turned 14 years ago, in 1999, when Ivica Dacic and Aleksandar Vukic sold out millions of victims of our ancestors from the First and Second Balkan Wars for their past term and when the heroism of the celebrated Serbian regiments of World War I was unthinked. The amendment says you want to spend 70 million dinars to mark World War I, and I'm telling you you're not worthy of it. Because when they stop at the Imperial Gallery, they ask from the depths of the Ionian Sea heroes from the Bregalnica, Kolubara, the Cat's Stone, ask the heroes of Grunište, do there be any Serbian flags in the Cave? They ask the heroes of World War I if they hear a Serb trumpet from Kosovo fields? I worked till 12 last night like you, but I slept quietly, because last night Milutin did not come to my dream to ask me – is there a Grace? I didn't come to sleep tonight to be asked by Stefan Decanski – who turns the Port of the High Boys into a parking lot for NATO tanks?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30215	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30216	The amendment really paints well what the government of the Republic of Serbia was doing when it created the budget. For Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora, therefore for Serbs in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Hungary, Romania, Slovenia is intended for a total of 100 million dinars and 70 million dinars are intended for the celebration of the World War I anniversary. So what kind of attitude towards Serbs in the region, according to the Serbs in the diaspora, speaks to this particular aspect, for one celebration, for one opportunity to spend these funds not on purpose as they were spent and for the celebration of the Milan edict, and we know how it ended in the end. The funds could be directed to learn Serbian language in Vukovar, Knin, Mostar, to preserve the tradition of Serbs in the region, but also to help Serbs in the diaspora who could get some information on Serbia what awaits them in Serbia when they return and if they return to Serbia and if the queen even thinks of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30217	Mrs. Gojkovic, by amendment. Here you go. The remaining time for the parliamentary group is one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30218	I just want to say that the SNS parliamentary group will certainly not vote for the DS amendment because they propose with their amendment that Serbia does not mark 100 years of marking the beginning of World War I. All the countries of Europe have long made their own programmes and are proud to have been in a group of winning forces. It is time for this government, for the whole of Serbia to understand its importance and its share in participating in World War I. It is really good that the amount of money this year is increased to represent Serbia in the world, which is set exactly to do so through institutions. So the money will be directed towards certain institutions that, as far as I'm informed, are largely in preparation for what it will be. So we're going to mark World War I by shooting a documentary film and we're going to mark World War I, for 100 years, with numerous exhibitions that are now being prepared, and this is also through the National Library of Serbia, through the Museum of History and through all other relevant institutions in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30219	Replica, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30220	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ask your colleagues to shut up a little bit, however, about their conscience. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you didn't understand me very well, I absolutely believe that Serbia should and must mark this significant jubilee of its history, but I don't think you're worthy of marking this jubilee, and especially this government that is made up of those political parties that have sold in vain the millions of victims of our ancestors who are gloriously married to Cera and Kolubara and who are their bones...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30221	Mr. Milivojevic, if you repeat, I'll give you a warning, because you can't insult people and talk about selling victims, because it's terrible what you said. That's terrible what you said, and the first one I don't allow to be transferred to me as part of the SNS parliamentary group. We've never sold anyone's victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30222	Here's how I'm gonna show it to you, Mr. President. Will that money be given to organize the Serbian military cemetery in Thessaloniki? Will this government, to which the President of the Republic, who hands and hats the medals, honor by George Mihajlovic, the guardian of the Serb military cemetery in Zeitinlik? Will you, as MPs of the ruling majority, ask that this man who takes care of the costumes of our ancestors who have been killed in glory for the sake of our country in order to resist the medals on which Kosovo and Metohija say "revealed"? Are you going to honor this man? Will he know that someone in Serbia is worthy of his efforts? Will you spend millions of dinars to arrange the Serbian military cemetery in Bizerta? Will you go to the Kajmachalan to see where a monument is on which it is written – it will pass centuries but no one will come to you with particles and only a pack of wolves will sing about the glory of Serbian regiments. I think at least that day when it is necessary to remember how many people with great faith have gone into that war, what glory they married, how heroism demonstrated and how their victims ended and how their efforts ended in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30223	By amendment Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30224	I am, of course, against adopting such an amendment because of the fact that the public has long been under discussion whether Serbia will mark something most famous in its recent Serbian history. If some neighbouring former Yugoslav republics had such a glorious history, and such an army, and such allies, and such victory and economy during the First World War, they would have invested twice as much to celebrate such an important event. Do not forget that for three years with the government, with the top command was out of the country, that all along the war it paid back to Germany, this is the ministers for you interesting, pre-war credits, and it was with Germany in the war, and the German finance minister said that it would be in gold letters written in world finance annals, that a government that had been expelled from their homeland, the warring side of the war was paying off war credits. One more thing, Minister. It was a kingdom. The dinar was stable. Inflation in 1918 compared to the 12th year, we still had the First and Second Balkan Wars, was only 38%, and we had inflation in the Republic that was much higher than this inflation in one day for six years of war. In view of the fact that Serbia was then in relation to Serbia in the 1990s, who understood nothing of what was going on in the world, she did not know which allies to turn to, she did not know what economic policy should lead, she did not know what her army should look like, etc. And that's why Yugoslavia's disintegrated to a large extent. The Serbian Army, the Kingdom of Serbia not only strengthened and expanded Serbia's borders and created strong allies, but also created the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, one of the most beautiful countries in the world, which again left-handed, who had become right-wing and right-wing in an extreme way, broke down in the cruel war of the 1990s, in the only war in Europe since World War II. Another great sin against Serbian heroes made by the left. Since after 1945, all who supported the Austrian Corporal received pensions and privileges, the Thessalonikins who created Yugoslavia were not allowed to say that they had created Yugoslavia as they went through all hell.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30225	Mr. Chiquiriz, you've had two minutes at your disposal. Mr. Veselinović, according to the amendment. You've got one minute left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30226	Yes, for the sake of truth, a total of 620 million dinars are scheduled for the post of World War I in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So 620 million dinars, not 70, but a total of 620 million dinars, so now that I've looked at the positions, it's seven times more than it's supposed for Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora, and I'm not talking about other positions concerning the social protection of citizens, etc. So, the question of what will these funds be spent on, in what way, is it going to be financing some party projects?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30227	Mr. Milivoevich, you're on your way. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30228	I would really have to replicate to Mr Chikiriz, because I do share an immeasurable contribution to the SPO, the preservation of the tradition of the Serbian people, especially the Liberation Wars from 1912 to 1914. I withdraw, this is not about whether Serbia should do it or not. It may happen, indeed, those extraordinary parliamentary elections in March of the month, so someone else will be able to implement the programme and implement this item of the budget. Let's go this way. If I had been a minister in the government in 1999 who had released a NATO pact on KIM and had at home an Albanian monument to my grandfather, and a Karadjordian star of my great-grandfather, and I had a White Eagle medal with swords, also my grandfather, and that it stood at home – avenged Kosovo and wrote – in the glory of the unforgettable Serbian heroes who marched in Pristina, on Gazimestan and Peć, and that I was the one who caused me to spit on those medals and let NATO's pact build the largest military base on Bonstille, which my grandfather also released, I would have taken a gun and killed myself in that Kosovo and Metohija on the day of World War I War I, and I wouldn't be in politics. If nothing else, for life I would withdraw from politics and never again use those sacred terms of patriotism, Serbia, Serbia, Serbia, military glory, honor, honor, honesty, because it was all trampled by one senseless policy in the 1990s, when on the back of the SPO, DS, LDP and all of these, DSS, a disgrace, that we should be ashamed of being the descendants of these heroes. Instead of standing still now with the French, with the Russians, with the whole world and going through the Triumphal gate, we're going to go to the burden of Srebrenica, the burden of Bratunca, the burden of pointless wars, and I shouldn't have some people be worthy of showing up in that place.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30229	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Articles 106, 107, 108 and 109. I don't know which member my predecessor didn't hurt anymore. It's about the dignity of the Assembly, it's about the topic of the agenda, the insults that we're being referred to, we're not worthy of marking World War I, that we've brought a NATO pact to Kosovo, and I feel personally affected. In 1999, I voted against Resolution, or the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement. As far as I know, his party voted for a NATO pact. As NATO's pact came, he was here deploying his base on KIM, he ran with a chair and a picture from the Assembly and smelled like smoke. So, I don't know what else to say, to do, to prove to me that we're worthy, to mark the Kamachalan, Cer, etc. And mark the entire First World War. The glory of these freedom fighters was great, and they had the privilege of not having the Direkt media, and so they went into glory. All I have left to conclude in the end is that you, Mr. President, will most likely give him a warning when he looks exactly like that saying when he starts swearing and cursing us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30231	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30232	It's just that, Mr. President, a broken institution is advertising the Rules of Procedure. It cannot be used by the institution of advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica, not one MP, and especially the MP of the opposition, and that is not the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30233	Members of the 7th Section of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Balint Pastor and Zoltan Peck. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30234	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group has tabled an amendment regarding the continuation of the construction of the National Theatre building in Subotica. Please, Mr. Minister, pay attention to what I'm about to say, because I expect an answer, I expect you to explain why this amendment of ours has been rejected, and I hope that your oral response will be more convincing than the one in writing, which we got the other day. I also ask fellow Members of the People's Parliament to listen to me and to support this amendment, concerning culture, regarding the continuation and completion of the construction of the National Theatre building in Subotica. The building in Subotica was built away in 1854. In 1904 it was reconstructed, in 1915 it was partially injured in a fire, in 1926 it was reconstructed, but in 2006, in 2007, unfortunately, the only possibility was to build the building back practically, starting from the ground up, because the building itself was in such bad shape for years and decades back that it was no longer possible to be in that form and thus preserved. You probably know, Mr. Minister, you probably saw each other, if not live, then on old postcards, photos from Subotica, that building with the Corinthian pillars. It's one of the symbols of the city of Subotica. It's very difficult for us Subotians because for years we've had an unfinished facility in the city center, one practically concrete structure. A contract on joint financing of adaptation, reconstruction and construction of the National Theatre building, the National Theatre, Nepszinhaz in Subotica was signed on December 20th 2006. I've been holding this contract in my hand since 21 December 2006. This is so-called. A three-way contract, in the sense that the Republic Government has pledged to finance 45% of the building costs, to provide 45% of the building costs of the National Theatre in Subotica, as much as the province government, then Executively higher, and 10% of the municipalities, today the city of Subotica. I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister, that since then all cultural ministers have declared, not only in Subotica, but also here in Belgrade, that construction, reconstruction, adaptation of the National Theatre building in Subotica is the first-class project of national importance and that it holds the highest importance for the always Ministry of Culture. I want to remind you, Mr. Minister, that we, that the Republic of Serbia, for the past seven years, since this contract was in force, had six cultural ministers and that everyone was talking about the construction and completion of the National Theatre building in Subotica is a project of national importance. The first was Mr. Dragan Kadidinović, so Mr. Vojislav Brajovic, followed by Mr. Nebojsa Bradic, followed by Mr. Predrag Markovic as culture minister, so Bratislav Petkovic, and today Ivan Tasovac. They all pointed out and gave meaning to this project. No matter what I said, since 2009, the Republic Government has not given a single penny to build this facility. Until then, between 2006 and 2009, the Republic provided 229 million dinars in total, AP Vojvodina 243 million dinars. Like I said, this contract is a valid contract. I know that in this country we have a problem with respect for the Constitution, with implementation and implementation of the law, I know there is a shortage in the principle of government law and the rule of law, but I think it's really scandalous that there is a contract whose signature and government of the Republic of Serbia, and that in the last five years, no single dinar has been provided for the construction of this building, this facility, and that the Republic of Serbia is acting as if there is no contract or the whole of this project has been completed, and we Saturdays, not only the Subotics, have to endure this concrete structure in the very heart of the city. As you know, you probably know, the theater in Subotica has a tradition for 200 years. There is a drama in Serbian, a drama in Hungarian at the National Theatre. I personally advocate forming and drama in Croatian because it is in the tradition of our city. The National Theatre and these ensembles and these plays work without a building. No matter what they have to do in non-human conditions, they return to Subotica, return to Serbia, with prestigious awards from international theatre festivals. I think it would be good, Mr. Minister, to explain why the Government of the Republic of Serbia feels that this contract that I hold in my hand does not exist. I want to quote some of the provisions of this contract. For example, "The Contracting Parties have committed themselves in Article 2 of this Treaty to provide together the financial resources necessary for the realisation and completion of the adaptation of the reconstruction and addition of the National Theatre in the following percentages: 45% of governments, 45% Executively higher, today the government of Vojvodina and 10% of municipalities, today the city of Subotica". Article 3 states that the parties have established a commitment to ensure the continued dynamics of the construction of a facility to which they will plan and make appropriate decisions to provide financial resources during the planned period of realisation and completion of the facility. I emphasize and underline the words – the completion of the object. We have proposed providing a rate of 10 million dinars from the budget for the next year of the Republic of Serbia. We thought this amount was realistic, on the one hand, and on the other hand Mr Pajtic promised in Subotica a few months ago that the AP Vojvodina budget would provide 150 million dinars in 2014 for the construction of the National Theatre in Subotica. Some funds have already arrived and construction has been continued in Subotica, but these funds are not enough, on the one hand. On the other hand, I am stressing again, and the Republic of Serbia has contractual obligations, and the contract is in force and, unfortunately, is not yet fully realised, far from that. We've been thinking about whether it would be a good idea if we put in some other amount. But we thought that the government, or the Ministry of Finance, would probably react, that some conversations would begin. I wouldn't be here to bargain and not turn the Assembly into a market, but if the government thinks this amount is too high, we can make amends. We can reach some kind of deal, make it 70, 100 million, as far as the Ministry thinks it's real, but after five years, it would be good if the government continued to carry out its contractual obligations. You are in the opinion, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in its opinion on our amendment, pointed out that the planned funds are exclusively intended for the settlement of remaining contractual obligations under the National Investment Plan and that, apart from the projects launched, there are no funds available for new projects in this economic classification. I absolutely don't understand this explanation, because it's not about the new project. It is a project launched by the National Investment Plan. The funds came in two, three years, and five years, there's no sign of any of those funds. You stated, Mr. Minister, that in 2009, the handover of works was carried out, the situation ended and paid for, and the contract obligation was fully paid and the first phase of construction completed. As you can see, and I have also quoted the provisions of the treaty, there is no point in saying that the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have ceased with the completion of the first phase of the building. It simply wouldn't be natural, it wouldn't be normal, because that contract applies to the whole project and is in force until these works are completed. We have proposed that these funds be taken, not from the Ministry of Culture's resources, but from the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, because they provide for funding, the ministry provides funds for the completion of the projects launched. I cannot agree with you, Mr. Minister, that there is no means for this purpose, since the budget can be seen, and this is also stated in the explanation of our amendment, that the funds for the completion of the projects launched are worth billions and 600 million dinars, that some of the assets of this appraisal amounting to 763 million dinars are intended for the capital project M1. 11 Kragujevac-Batocin, which means that about 838 million dinars still remain, which are not scheduled for any concrete project. These resources may have their place, but it is absolutely not seen from the Budget Proposal. Please, Mr. Minister, give me an answer on the first page, which is useful, not the kind the government has delivered in its opinion on the amendment. On the other hand, if there is still space, and hopefully there is, I suggest we see if this amount is real or whether it needs to be corrected, modified, put in some other amount, but it would be extremely important to continue building the National Theatre building in Subotica. I think that's what the Subotians deserve, not just, but a culture in the Republic of Serbia as a state. On the third hand, I would like to appeal to distinguished colleagues, regardless of political membership and to all parliamentary groups, to support this amendment in the day of voting in the interest of cultural development in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30235	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30236	Thank you. I'll answer. We also checked after receiving amendments with the Ministry of Culture, regarding this. I'm not going through anything, but let me go through some. The project was launched in 2006. The funds were provided in the 2006 budget of 278m dinars. The reconstruction project concluded a contract with Panongrad from Subotica as a contractor. By the end of 2007, a total of 172 million dinars were paid to the performer. The 2008 budget law envisioned the payment of the rest of the 56m dinar contract. The decision of 9 June carried out the transfer of additional funds. But what is essential and writes also in the explanation that the work was done by handing out the work, was presented by the end-of-the-line situation of July 3, 2009, the company Panongrad for the implementation of the project from the NIP was paid the total amount and that part of the financing of the other phases, according to the information we have from the Ministry of Culture, was taken over by the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. I know that this fund is no longer like that, but as you spoke, I came into contact with the Minister of Culture, who says that the Ministry of Culture has been in constant contact with the Regional Ministry of Culture, among other things, and on this matter, that the Ministry has so far provided, that it has fulfilled financial obligations under current contracts, but that the intention to co-operate with the Regional Secretariat is to launch and resolve the question of how to end it, after what has been going on for years. I'd like to refer you to the Resort Ministry on this matter. That's the answer I have to make.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30237	The word is made by the People's MP Balint Pastor, the Replic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30238	Mr. Minister, I cannot be satisfied with this answer because this treaty shows that the Republic of Serbia has obligations on this issue. Of course, I know, I mentioned that for a moment, that the AP Vojvodina should carry out its part of the obligation and do so. Regardless of the difficult financial situation in Vojvodina, I would not like to repeat all the arguments we had in previous years, even yesterday, regardless of the lack of respect for the constitutional guarantee, related to the financing of AP Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, has provided funds all these years to build and end the facility. He did so according to his possibilities and the city of Subotica. The government of the Republic of Serbia alone, not this one, but the previous one did not provide funds, nor did it carry out its contractual obligations. I am pleased that Serbia's culture minister and the province's cultural secretary co-operate. It's of paramount importance. That's how it's supposed to be, and it should be understood. Unfortunately, not all resolutions are understood, but it will not, Mr. Minister, solve the problem of where 45% of the building will be financed, and 45% should be under a valid contract until the end of the facility to secure the Republic of Serbia. I know this isn't your responsibility exclusively as Minister of Finance, but you're the motionary in front of the government, and you're the government's authorized representative. I appeal to the entire Serbian government, as well as to the ruling majority, to start this issue from a dead end, because Subotica and culture in the Republic of Serbia deserve to continue to build this facility after five years and finally implement commitments not only by the province and the city, but also by the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30239	The word has been given by MP Susan Grubjesic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30240	I just want to say that in the day of voting, the URS Parliament Club will support the amendment of our dear colleagues from SVM because we think it's really high time that after so much tension between the province and the republican authorities finally approve the money to complete the construction of the National Theatre in Subotica. Whoever was there knows it's a symbol of the city of Subotica and with a tradition of over 200 years. Please, Mr. Minister, since I have your predecessor sitting next to me who, while he was finance minister in 2004-2006, gave money to build a children's theater in Subotica. Now you can continue this beautiful tradition and you can approve the money to end this larger National Theatre in Subotica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30241	By amendment, MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30242	I would like to point out that the DSS parliamentary group will support this amendment, since, as distinguished counterpart Balint Pastor said, the contract ended in 2006 and within the framework of the funds that were then allocated and under the NIP project which was then launched. The government of Vojislav Kostunica, then Mr Dinkic was the finance minister, provided the first funding, and in any case, we also recognized the importance that such an important object of cultural importance for Serbia was built and reconstructed, and in that sense we think that this is a natural thing to support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30243	On page 7, the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mitrovica to article 7 of Sections 19 and 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30244	Thank you. From year to year, as a result of natural disasters and emergency situations, our country suffers great material damage and, without distinction, whether it is fires, floods or other factors, this material damage exceeds all that our local communities, regions can endure and that the damage is compensated in the coming period. Usually, in these elemental disasters and extraordinary events, the moment these assets and human lives are threatened and after that every story ends. For this reason, I suggested that Article 7 split 19 define 300 million dinars for the construction of regional emergency centres. In previous years, we have witnessed that a large number of these extraordinary events, as I said, have caused considerable material damage and I believe it is necessary to invest at least 300 million dinars in regional emergency centres. Also, as part of this amendment in the section relating to Chapter 19) of the budget programme for local self-government, I have proposed that part of the funding from the 250m dinar appraisal be allocated to support local communities. Earlier in the debate, my colleague Vladimir Ilic, the amendment, demanded that local self-government be assured that this budget was foreseen, taking up 1.8 billion dinars and having a major problem with local self-government, and that this burden of lack of these funds would be the most felt by people in local communities, people who are directly connected to all those projects, water, sewers, lighting, those projects that life means to them. That is why I think it is necessary to approve 250 million for local communities in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30245	The amendments were submitted by MP Verica Kalanovic to section 7th and 22th. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30246	We want to point out one bad phenomenon in Serbian politics, which is when one minister replaces another, he does not continue the projects that this previous one has started, but he does it all over again. That's why nothing ever ends in Serbia, but everything just starts. What's this about? Igor Mirovic is now the minister of regional development and has abolished the project to build the moravia corridor. Mr. Djidic just asked what happened to the Moravian corridor. The funds were provided this year for the regional development ministry. As Igor Mirovic came, he did it and no longer has funds intended for the construction of the Pojate-Preljina highway. We believe that there is enough resources to be done, especially when the retail negotiations have been completed, and they could have, as it were, continued properly, maybe started next spring. There is a possibility to build or finance a Chinese loan, which was foreseen in the budget for this year or by the Azerbaijani government loan, because both are interested and can be from their own resources. I ask the question why did you assume at the Department of Construction's division that you would pay your full participation in the construction of Corridor 10 to the Chinese next year? That's not common, let me just say it right now. Three and a half billion dinars are envisioned on behalf of Serbia's participation in the construction of Corridor 11, to pay all next year, although the construction will last three to four years. The Chinese offered you, I followed it as head of the China Co-operation Committee, so that we pay it further, as they invest in one year, that we pay that part in the next. Why did Minister Ilic pay upfront, and you, as finance minister, accept it? Instead, we suggest that an adequate portion be removed from that section, that the Chinese be paid by the succession of Corridor 11, and instead the money be redistributed to the construction of the Pojate-Preljina highway, to begin next year. Also important is the direction of Ruma-Loznica, as it is necessary for Western Serbia to fully connect with Corridor 10. Also, if Corridor 11 is built, at least projecting to connect Valjev with Corridor 11, because it's not a big share and it's not expensive and finally seeing to make a fast traffic from Paracino to Zaječar. You might say there's no money, and I've explained that there is, because I'm asking a question and you're asking me why you're paying for the full participation of the Chinese next year when they didn't ask for it? They said, pay us in three, four years. The second question – why did you provide for the Deposit Insurance Agency as much as 350m euros? Is there going to be another bank going bankrupt and what? In order to fill the Agency's deposit, it was necessary for those haiariums with the Vojvodina Development Bank and New Agrobank, which required 160m euros, and you predicted 350. Why 190 million euros more? Who's it meant for, and who's it going to go to? Since I have already mentioned the Postage Savings Bank, given that you have relocated the deposits of the Business Bank of Belgrade to the Postanska Savings Bank after the transfer of the deposits "New Agrombanka" and "Vojvodine Development Banka", can the Post Office hold this – three banks, and all deposits are transferred to only one without adequate capitalisation? The funds you provided for next year for the Post Office dock aren't enough. That's what you know. You have to give more, because it's going to be a disaster if the Post Office breaks down because it can't stand all of this being passed on to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30247	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30248	As I mentioned several times, especially last night, he doesn't know, you weren't there, we were doing priority projects and loans, especially infrastructures, related to travel and rail infrastructure. We've been doing this at the level of the entire government to ensure that we fit in, that is, the goal we set ourselves, which is to stabilise the public debt. These imports have been carried out at the government level to prioritize the projects, which does not mean that some of these other projects will not be done, but not all will be done in one year, or loans withdrawn in one year, and then stand unused, as has been the practice so far. Taking into account how much the State is in charge and that it spends too much on these non-productive categories of expenditure, it is envisaged to move to a public-private partnership, or concessions where it is profitable and where possible. I think it is the intention of a sea corridor after my talks with the minister of construction and with the minister of traffic. As regards individual loans and conditions for the loan, they are negotiated and negotiated in a broader context, and that is again the jurisdiction of the resolution ministry and that leaves room for, if in a certain way, to define different parameters when the realisation and everything else takes place, it can be prolonged. As far as the Deposit Insurance Agency is concerned, you know of course they're funds, I'll say it at least in my opinion, although it's not justified, used on purpose. This is likely before you as to the payment or compensation of all unsecured deposits and that this should not have been done by the Deposit Insurance Agency. I will not enter, it is necessary to recapitulate it in order to ensure the financial stability of the entire system and we will do so from these concession loans together with changes of purpose, in order to prevent further, this way described unintended use of funds. After all, we're doing a strategy that hasn't been done so far, and we've already taken steps to avoid situations like we had with these three banks before. With the "Primary Bank of Belgrade", I think it is clearly articulated and explained that the choice of the other was not and that the option chosen was chosen for two reasons. One is for financial stability and the other is because it was the least costing of the state in its entirety, even excluding the financial stability component as such. I stressed that the precondition for meeting this budget and fiscal strategy is to prevent further spilling of funds through banks in an inadequate way and we have already taken steps in this direction. After, I would say, a few years, the Financial Committee for Stability was established, this week, on Monday, of course closed to the public and discussed the issue of the banking sector and steps are being taken to prevent further outflows of funds in that direction. In the context of the extraordinary audits that we have asked of all state banks and which have almost all arrived at the ministry, we have already begun with this, to draw up several alternatives for the banking sector strategy, which is state-owned. To see what's the right way to kind of consolidate it or set it up next year so that it makes sense and that there's control so that it doesn't further materialise the fiscal risk that currently exists in the system. As we do so, the public will also be informed. I hope I answered all three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30249	The word is made by MP Mladjan Dinkic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30250	A warm tip. Don't blanco trust the building and traffic ministers, because they'll tell you a story. Look and see for yourself what's true. They kept telling me that debt is one number, and eventually it turns out more times than that. Same for this. You shouldn't have missed this. Here the Chinese are paid in advance 10% of the total value of the credit even though the highway is built in three to four years. That's not good. We're actually giving more because you know that money is more valuable if it's given now than if it's in three years. That's where you could've saved up. By our estimate, you could have saved nearly two billion dinars there. That's why we suggested you reroute it to these directions because it's not realistic that the Moravia Corridor is built out of concession. You know that, too. The concession can build highways where the plain, according to Vojvodina, possibly from Belgrade to Ljiga, can work on concessions. All those others that go through mountainous and mountainous areas must be built from credit or from budget funds, so don't blanco trust building and traffic ministers. For this second question, thank you for your answer, but I still suggest the following. It wasn't the Deposit Insurance Agency, as you said, you didn't know the expression, paying off unsecured deposits. The agency only paid off the secured deposits, and they were unsecured by the issue of government bonds. So it's not a problem but it wasn't enough money to pay off the secured deposits, when the new Agrobank collapsed, and then they stayed down to about 160m euros. But you put in 350 and I ask you why 190 million more? Or are you suggesting another bank is in trouble and that interventions will be needed?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30251	On Article 7 of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jokovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30252	This is another one in a series of amendments to the United Regions of Serbia, with the intention of fixing the budget, because we believe the budget has two major defects. One is that it does not have the obligation to pay off expensive loans prematurely and thereby deprive the state of debt and resolve the permanent issue of the budget deficit, and the other large deficit is that it does not have the reasonable component. This amendment speaks of tourism. An embarrassingly small budget for tourism is foreseen for next year and tourism revenues have been increased even three times in the last five years, thanks to an adequate policy. We propose to invest an additional two and a half billion dinars in tourism. However, what is the biggest problem of this budget, other than what I have already said, is the pointless spending in the division of the Ministry of Economy. There lies room for money to be transferred to healthy projects in the economy, both in tourism and in agriculture. Thirty-six billion dinars of the economy's budget is not a small budget, but 20 billion of them are meant to, I don't know, buy out a claim from the company in restructuring. It subsidizes with six times the amount of former social enterprises. What do you miss about the Department of Economy budget? You have no money to participate in the aircraft component factory with Mubadal, which was mentioned yesterday in a meeting with Sheikh Muhammad. So this factory will cost and Serbia needs to allocate 20% of the investment. Next, you have no money to realise the project of building the "Gorenje" and "Panasonic" factories in Zajecar. I've said that many times before. Serbia needs to invest 10m euros, Slovenians and Japanese together invest around 40m. Here is a factory that produces a million washing machines a year, the most modern quality, and almost everything will go to export. That's 250m euros in exports. You don't have a car builder program. The "Zelvos", a car factory in Kraljevo, a car factory in Nis, cannot work normally either "Tatra Wagon" in Subotica, or "Shinvos" in Zrenjanin, or "Gosa" in Smederjevska Palanca unless you have the program that while it is a crisis, while they cannot produce for a foreign market, the government must buy on behalf of the railway wagon for our railways and continue the programme with Republika Srpska. That's where you need two billion. You didn't foresee money for the Michelin project in Piroth, so the delegation came to President Nikolic and I don't know what she was talking about with him, they should go to the Ministry of Business. They want to double their capacity. It is now Serbia's third exporter. This project needs help. This is a contractual obligation transferred from the previous period. There is no money in the SIEP budget, for the PKK from Finland to create 1,500 new jobs in Smederev. There is also no funding for opening two factories in Jagodina, which Dragan Markovic Palma was talking about. He arranged the projects and you didn't put the money in the budget. There is no "Nortcarton" from Russia, nor for an Italian factory that wants to produce kitchens. There is no money for an Italian furniture factory in Sremska Mitrovica. Not for Konzberg, a Norwegian company that wants to build a autocomponent factory in Serbia. Finally, you have not allocated enough funds for the work of the SIEP. If you shut down the SIEP, you are indeed making an unprecedented mistake, because if there is a one-stop shop system that all parties in Serbia have been up for for five or six years, then the only agency that has a counter system is the SIEP. It's not a quick answer office. She has yet to show whether or not she is. This has been there for six years and there in one place you get all the information about all the laws in Serbia on all the locations. It connects all republican authorities with local water investors on the spot, negotiates and proposes to the government and the government decides whether to encourage or not. If the World Bank is that agency...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30253	Time, Mr. Dinkich. I'm using the time of our parliamentary group. Mr. Dinkic, I'm sorry, but time has been spent by both the parliamentary groups and the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30255	I was told this morning that there were 10 minutes left, a little. I talked about the last amendment for three minutes. That's impossible. It was a replica just before. Don't eat our time the way interest eats our budget, don't eat our time on those jokes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30256	I really have a record of that. I can tolerate a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30257	I'll bring the end then. Then let it be spent all the time. So our proposal is also to conclude, prematurely pay off the loans and with the Department of Economy's division, what is irrationally planned for pointless things, shift 9.5 billion into agriculture and these incentives for healthy industrial investments. Without that, you won't have economic growth, and next year you'll come here with a budget rebalance to tighten the belt for the people. That's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30258	Thank you. On page 7, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Mr Bozidar Djelic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30259	Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which is essentially trying to solve one of the biggest problems of your budget proposal, which is that in addition to these funds that are huge and which in an effective way enable you to release at least 60,000 workers next year, through this amendment we condition investment, state participation in these investments through the condition that at least a third of the employees are over 45 years old. Faced with the age, demographic structure of our country, and especially with the structure of those who are about to lose their jobs because of yours, I would say very bad measures next year, the DS through this amendment is trying to make investors and the ability to get funds from the state conditions that at least a third of the jobs, if they want to compete for this money and adopt this regulation, be conditioned by an age line. Why? Because workers from over 45 years of age will obviously be most affected by your firing and severance measures, which you've prepared for, I think, over 20 billion dinars, while on the other hand you only have three billion for employment. This disproportion, counting and funds from abroad that are meant for similar purposes, brings us really into a catastrophic situation where the government doesn't see a way out and doesn't see what these people are going to do, leading to the Kensian and other methods that we saw last night, which are about to say, we're going to fire you, you're going to get severance, so you see what you're going to do. Unfortunately, the harsh reality in Serbia is precisely that our people who are over 45 years old, getting severance, mostly that severance, spend or pay back debts, or for basic existential things, or unfortunately for paying back bills for electricity, communals and everything else. So these people aren't just being stigmatized in their midst... finishing... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... in this way they become the absolute victims of the social and state incompetence of the system of this incompetent authority. We're trying to form a Serbian investment bank to start a Serbian economy. You, of course, reject this amendment. We think you can make an effort to help these people in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30260	On Article 7, paragraphs 20 and 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30261	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Mr. Minister, is the essence of this amendment to DS, which I have submitted, that in section 20 – Ministry of Economy, I should read to you: two billion dinars, reduce position and transfer to the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, to function 620, classification 511. Mr. Vukic and Mr. Velimir Ilic, your colleagues from the government and someone who brought you into the Serbian government promised in June to be paid back all debts in June. Our construction operation today is in a situation where it is not able to participate in projects because of the state in which it is located, and above all a huge amount of funds owed to the construction operation. Therefore, the idea of this amendment is to add, with a description of the appraisal, that part of the assets of this apropriation amounting to two million dinars is intended to reduce debt to the construction industry. Dear Minister, I think it's important that as part of the government you remind those who brought you to that government, those with whom you work on their promises because in June they promised to pay back their debts to construction operations. This is just part of it and trying to fill a part of it. I hope that you will change your mind and accept this amendment if, and I did not last night, because "Partizan" was more important to me, watched by Mr. Vukic, finally defeated the oak might begin to deal with its promises. In June, he promised to help the construction industry, and I want these two billion, which would change the purpose of our budget, the construction industry to help.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30262	The MP Jovana Mehandzic Đurdzic submitted to Sections 20, 22 and 25 of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30263	Good afternoon, Your Honor. Dear Chairman, the essence of this amendment is that education and science in the budget for next year receive more funding for the simple reason that we in the DS believe that education and science are absolutely the most important and important investment for a society and a way to invest in the improvement of this society and our nation. What I have proposed to this amendment is that, among other things, you provide Petnica with 30 million to function because you have fortunately accepted through the amendment of my colleague Plassic, and for that I am very pleased. What we have suggested further is to improve the conditions in which our children learn and acquire knowledge and skills. To invest even more in infrastructure in terms of primary, secondary schools, institutions of student, student standard and higher education institutions. Furthermore, we have suggested that you increase the resources to work with talented and gifted children and students for the simple reason that we consider it to be an investment that is being paid and that will make this society a better one and that this country is even more helpful in terms of the student competition because we have seen in the past that there is never enough funding provided by the state to support students going to competitions, bringing excellent results to this country. They're building an image of Serbia in scientific and educational circles that we can only be proud of. We believe that the state must invest more resources in working with talented and gifted students and allow an even greater number of students to go to competitions, especially international ones. This project also proposes two new projects... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The education of adults that you, I conclude, are foreseen by the law that was passed in June of this year... If you didn't hear me, I said that... )......................................................................................................... . Let me finish my sentence if you haven't heard me. So, I'm done. In June of this year you passed the Law on adult education which takes effect and begins to apply on 1 January 2014. In this budget, you did not provide for funding for adult education. My amendment has proposed this and I ask you to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30264	On Article 7, 20 and 24 of the amendments were submitted by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30265	Mr. Minister, you probably know that from January 1st for the largest number of agricultural products there will be no customs duties and that will be a great pressure on our non-competitive agriculture and our peasants anyway. Unfortunately, we haven't prepared ourselves properly for this, and that's why the URS is asking for the agricultural budget to be more than 5% and not less, as you planned, and this amendment requires you to add 2 billion in the agricultural investment budget, because the only investments in agriculture can modernize it and make it competitive. United regions of Serbia are demanding that farmers be provided with grants for the procurement of a system for irrigation, for machinery, plastics, freezers, for the processing of agricultural products. Mr. Minister, you can't save money on agriculture. You come from a developed country and you know very well what it means to modernise and invest in any production. Which is why I'm surprised you rejected this amendment to the U.S.R. I expect your answer to why you did it because with this relationship to agriculture that you have in this budget, Serbian agriculture and Serbian peasants you'll just push into that ambis you've been talking about here for days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30266	Thank you. On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavica Saveljic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30267	Thank you. More amendments have been submitted to this member of the proposed law. Agriculture is one of the pillars of our policy, and while we were part of the government, we strongly advocated a mandatory 5% of our agricultural budget. In local self-government, where the URS performs or significantly affects the government, agrarian budgets are already a tradition. The best example for this is the town of Kragujevac, which last week, by adopting its budget, planned for the tenth year in a row and funds for agrarian politics, thus giving a real, rather than a declarative contribution to rural development and agriculture. Unfortunately, the Republic budget for 2014 is very restrictive towards agriculture and of 5% guaranteed by law there is nothing. With this amendment, the URS has provided greater incentives for non-commercial households, and we propose that three billion dinars be additionally invested in these incentives. We believe that these incentives can cover as many as 60,000 users and that each member of the family household should and should receive 50,000 dinars. These households are in extreme poverty. You also heard from the president of the parliamentary group in the principle debate, over 200,000, more specifically 233,000 receive agricultural pensions, barely about 10,000 dinars, and more than 100,000 people over 65 years of age did not exercise the right to a agricultural pension at all. Serbia is a country with great potential, but also great problems in agriculture. We all talk a lot about agriculture, and when we get a chance to show that policy, somehow promises fall into the water. Villages are growing older, more and more poor, mechanized, income among the lowest in Europe, about 700 villages are extinct, one-fifth of children from the rural area don't even enter primary school, and young people find it difficult to decide to stay in the country. All of this makes it really necessary to give new incentives, because both young and women and non-competitional households need predictable and long-term predictable agriculture... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... and politics in that area, not something that ad hoc changes every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30268	Thank you. The National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted amendments to Sections 20, 24, and 28. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Senic submitted to Sections 20, 24 and 53 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This amendment concerns the reconstruction, or completion of the reconstruction of the new Faculty of Electrical Engineering building in Belgrade, and it is a truly modest sum of 100m dinars, which would not really disrupt fiscal balance. This project has received broad public support, all in order to improve youth education, increase the number of educated young experts and develop the communication technology sector. We, just to remember, the industry development strategy, as one of the priorities of industrial policy, set up the development of IT industry, so we think that the development of IT industry is necessary and urgent for stopping brain drains from our country, which we have been talking about for years, and with this, we need to create conditions for young experts to find jobs in their country, but, above all, invest in expanding the capacities of scientific and university institutions and provide guarantees for investment in this area and provide equipment for technology parks. In order for our efforts to develop IT to not remain a dead letter on paper, let's start with this modest sum of 100 million dinars for the adaptation of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30270	Members of the 7th Sections 20 and 25 of the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic and Vladimir Gordic. The word is made by MP Vladimir Gordic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30271	Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, proposing this amendment to the budget, intended to increase the resources allocated to science, as well as the resources necessary for the normal functioning of the Accreditation and Quality Check Commission. Serbia today, according to its investment in the science of 0.36% of GDP and 14 billion sum, is in the last place in Europe. In view of this, it can't be surprising that we have the smallest number of scientific patents reported and that Serbia is stagnating from year to year. Do you really think, Mr. Minister, that 30,000 dinars a year, per scientific worker, or 2,500 dinars a month for direct material costs that are to be paid for expendable office material, consumable laboratory material, travel costs for scientific gatherings, scholarships for postgraduate studies, really enough for our science to be able to produce products that will be competitive on the world market. Such poor working conditions and the reduction of the salaries of our scientific workers and other highly educated personnel will lead to further brain drains from our country, but will also drain the huge financial resources invested in their education and their work. This is a message to them, that they should go abroad, so that they can be professionally accomplished, and that Serbia will then buy knowledge and technology from these countries and from these foreign factories at high prices. For this very reason, which we believe is that investment in investment science, not consumption, we are asking that a billion dinars, which is defined in the Department of Industry's division, which are scheduled to be shut down and sold down by our factories and fired workers, be transferred to the development of science... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... which can be a turning point for the development of our economy on the creation of new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30272	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30273	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is a kind of appeal for public policies in our country to be guided consistently, especially when it comes to education policy. Namely, the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification, which is treated by this amendment, is the most important institution in addition to the National Council for Higher Education, which is the basis for determining the future of higher education in our country. In 2005, we only signed the Bologna Declaration and entered the order of the free space of education in Europe. However, by entering the ECQA accreditation committee this year, we have come to the stage that our accreditation committee has entered, the only one in the region besides Croatia, in the order of the most competent accreditation bodies in the EU, which means that our students' diplomas will be treated much better in the future in EU countries. Last year, we also had a problem in the budget for the financing of the Accreditation Commission, which is an independent body, and by intervention of the Finance Committee, we put those funds to finance the accreditation commission of around 60 million dinars. This year, I must warn that the process of accreditation of higher education institutions will be carried out cyclically for five years, the process of accreditation of colleges, higher schools and universities will be carried out. The minister knows very well what the process is, what he requires and I am afraid that it will be very little funds, so that this commission can exist and work. For this reason, if we want to have one of these independent bodies, if we want to have a strong and good education, we need to make a clear distinction between the executive and the ministry, the Commission should not be under the auspices of the ministry, and to provide the means for the foundation of economic and any other development of our country to be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30274	Thank you. On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment and the rejected amendment, under Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure, you can't be the subject of a debate about him not to vote. Here you go, Lapci.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30275	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, I have proposed two things with this amendment. The first concerns our youngest, our children and solving the problem this country has in the 21st century, which is the lack of basic hygiene conditions in primary schools in Serbia. You know for a fact that over a thousand schools in Serbia have no basic hygiene conditions for our children. In over 200 schools there is no drinking water, and in over 500 schools there are no adequate hygiene conditions, or there are no adequate toilets, but the toilets are Polish. It is really unacceptable that in the era of communication, in the century where we are fighting infectious diseases, we allow in Serbian schools, in more than 500 of them, children do not have basic hygiene conditions, but they do their hygiene needs, unfortunately, in Polish toilets or, in not a small number of cases, even in Polish corn. I think 300 million dinars, as much as I suggested to be replaced by a 8.3 billion Fiat incentive project, are not any particular amount that will endanger this project, and 300 million dinars is quite enough money to solve at least 200 schools' problems with inadequate hygiene conditions for our children. It would be very desirable if the minister could at least hear any of this. I'm sorry, but it's really a very important problem that's been bothering our children. I understand that we have no money for anything and I understand that the country is in big trouble, but you're letting us really define where it's most needed. I don't think there's anything more necessary than solving basic hygiene conditions for kids who go to school. You know the case from a month ago of mass poisoning in kindergartens. You know cases of infectious diseases affecting some area of jaundice in Alexinac and elsewhere in Serbia every month. Please, let's start solving this problem. I guess we're a society that deserved to provide its children with the best conditions for learning and basic hygiene conditions for schoolwork in the 21st century. The second part of the amendment refers to what you know, what we talked about on the Committee, which is that the funds provided for by the Department of Commerce are defined and are intended for workers who worked in their businesses that have failed or gone bankrupt, who have claims based on outstanding earnings, who have asked for their earnings, that is to say, compensation for those profits, and before the court, who have executive judgments. There are several thousand in Nis and there are several thousand in all of Serbia. It would really be unfair for them who worked in huge systems, who built this country, that the state would pull them apart for years and not want to pay them back. Last year, a regulation was adopted under which the Privatisation Agency set out to record the demand for those workers. It was an obligation to make a proposal to pay them by the end of last year, and until today it was not done. It is my proposal to move forward, to define a part of this year's funds of between five and ten billion and to pay out people who have claims based on working relationship and backlogs, and that this is being co-excessively further in the next five to ten years by model of old foreign currency savings. We think it's fair to the people who have invested their entire lives in the development of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30276	On Article 7, Sections 20, 25, 26 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Here you go, Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30277	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is such that when the crisis is we want to say that we must not forget to invest in production and investment in prevention, and this is exactly the budget that has almost nothing to do with production and prevention in itself. Thus, Green Serbia proposes to provide at least one meal of organic food to student kitchens and to ensure that raspberries are used as a food supplement at least once a day. What's very important is that almost 10% of the population in Serbia has some guy's diabetes. We here propose much more money for early detection and prevention of diabetes at the primary level of protection in the Republic of Serbia. Then, when we talk about social security and funding parenting of children being treated for cancer for a time of treatment, i.e. the duration of treatment, not just for four months, we think it's the least we owe our children. Of course, what hurts young generations in the last few decades, it is an improvement in health care and reproductive ability of young people in Serbia. It's almost embarrassing that only one million are separated for those needs, when you're all talking about birth and when you talk about how every year 35,000 citizens and citizens of this country have fewer. Finally, just a few questions for the minister. Since you mentioned the Rivencing Fund, i.e. The Minister of Business mentioned it, it is not enough for us to support this budget as Green Serbia, but we ask you – do you know how much the budget is owed to recycling, how much it owes for 2012 and 2013? Will your amount be paid in 2014? Do you know it's an exhale industry that employs 15,000 people?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30278	Thank you. The amendments were submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to section 7th and 26th. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, Sections 20, 26 and 30 of the amendments were submitted by MP Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30279	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I have proposed an amendment that provides that under section 20 of the Ministry of Economy, an appraisal amounting to 20 billion, which is intended for the process of restructuring the company, or, as the budget debate has already taken place here, for the lay-off of employees, to isolate 500 million dinars and transfer to the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Why? Because when we recently discussed the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women here, otherwise I thought that the law was not necessary and that the existing legislation was well-organized by their health care, then we realized that at least 500 million were missing for persons in Article 22. Health insurance laws, which are children, pregnant women, maternity parents, people with disabilities, over 65 years of age, refugees, displaced and not listed. That's 16 categories of population and the state pays insurance for them. Those funds have been insufficient for years. The very financial plan of the Health Insurance Fund states that the funds for these persons in Article 22 are twenty times less than is necessary. The amendment was denied. It's said that this 20 billion-dollar appraisal is optimally planned. I am sure that I share the conviction and conviction of most MPs here, that if there is any adhesion in the proposed budget, which is completely subjectively voluntaryly planned, that is certainly this apprition in the distribution of the Ministry of Economy of 20 billion. Something similar was claimed by the Minister himself on the Finance Committee when he said he didn't really know how much money was needed, and since we don't even have the bankruptcy law yet, he doesn't know how many people are going to be out of work, he thinks 20 grand. It will all be people without health insurance, which are covered by Article 22. Health insurance laws and nothing is more natural than to go to a health fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30280	On Article 7th, 20th and 27th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30281	My amendment concerns raising funds to the budget fund to improve the energy efficiency of the Republic of Serbia, with an increase of 180 million to 500 million. It's often said that budget money has no color. However, there is some kind of budget money that can also be seen by color and money from the Energy Efficiency Budget Fund has the color of savings. I guess in a few months, six at most, we'll have a budget rebalance here. I ask the Minister that this amendment has in mind, since energy efficiency is as much a European obligation as necessary for us, given the state of energy efficiency, in the use of energy and in the lack of new energy sources. The Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection established this budget fund by law and, unfortunately, the law also abolished the Environmental Protection Fund. Since I said money has color sometimes, my question for Finance Minister Lazar Krstic. What happens to green money, the money that under the Law on the Protection of the Environment, according to the principle of wage polluter, put forward the obligation for all those polluting the environment to pay in the budget? When the Fund was there, it was clear where the money was. Now I know that in four positions what needs to be paid by the contracts that were concluded while the Fund was there. But, as we ignore that we need enough money in the Budgetary Energy Efficiency Fund, we are so concerned about the lack of answers to the question, how they will decide to spend green money, because the principle of polluter pays remains in force during 2014. It is very important that we know exactly what the value of the money that is collected in the legal way is, but more importantly, we know how every penny of that money is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30282	He has the word Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30283	Just to answer this question about green money. So we have an environmental pollution fee for the cities of 1.2 billion, for the municipalities of 1.1 billion. This was achieved by 30 November of this year, and the cost of environmental pollution is two billion and 103 million dinars in the Republic's budget in the same period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30284	National MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30285	There remains a lack of answers to the question of how will this money, on what basis, be spent, since we do not even have an announced budget fund for environmental protection, and we have an unnecessarily abolished Environmental Protection Fund? So, that money would have to go on project basis, if you want programmically, for the recovery of damage and for the improvement of the environment. My question is - who will decide this within the ministry, regardless of the amount of money collected during 2014, because we have no way of seeing it in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30286	Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30287	So at the level of municipalities and cities is spent on programmes and plans that bring individual municipalities and cities, although it does not exist on the Fund, there are four different positions, 424, 454 etc., at the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection. And they'll go through the contests in a similar way as they've been going before. The Ministry will decide that. When there's a programming budget, it's going to be seen transparently, exactly where it's being spent, because you can't see it now, you're right, in this budget as we're currently reading it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30288	National MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30289	Whoever's calling the competition, that's my key question. Who's calling the competition? What body? With what responsibilities to use the money collected, no matter how much he collects it? Who does that?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30290	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30291	For a republican part of the money, it is done by the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30292	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted the amendments to Sections 7 and 30. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30293	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Krstic, fellow MPs, my amendment and the government's refusal to accept this amendment shows the character of this budget. What counterpart Cvian mentioned at the Bureau's arrest sessions, he probably just forgot to say that this budget was probably discussed at SNS's sessions. Why this budget is neither developmental nor social. It is not a developmental one, Mr. Krstic, because there is no incentive for the remaining 104 private entrepreneurs as many as are liquid in Serbia. I'll remind you that in just a year and a half of this government's work, as many as 30,000 private entities have stopped working. Your government has no intention of abolishing a two-year tax for new open companies, no funding for regional projects, no money for women's business. Your budget is not even social, I have shown it through this amendment, because you do not want to provide an additional 500 million for the Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund is a state-run institution that makes compensations through nine average salaries in Serbia for workers who have lost their jobs through bankruptcy procedures. So what's this budget for, Mr. Cross? It serves to subsidise poorly-run state-run companies by irresponsible party directors, for Serbian government ministers who are suspected of doing the opposite of the interests of the Serbian state or taking a commission for large infrastructure projects, for the dismissal of workers and for the single marking of historic events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30294	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30295	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague mentions me of a completely wrong context. So, at the party's presidency, we didn't discuss the budget, but you're right, I'll vote against this budget. I will vote because this is the budget that will bring poverty to the citizens. This is the budget that will bring 60,000 minimum people who will be fired next year. Where are those investments we promised? They're not here. The citizens are now raising loans for these holidays, and for that reason I will vote against. If in any way the majority is provided for the budget vote, I call on President Nikolic not to sign an order to declare this law, because this law is proof that the promise we fought for in the election campaign has fallen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30296	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30297	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr Minister, did the SNS Bureau's meetings on the budget, as my colleague Cvian said, but I ask you, and you have not answered me – how do you plan to continue to operate the Solidarity Fund, Mr Minister? Is the Ministry of Economy going to take over everything competent and are you planning to end this fund? What will you do with the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia? Your claims and claims made by the Minister of Industry are unclear. So, will all the credit charges for private entrepreneurs go through the banks? I see in this budget you've provided funds to subsidize interest in banks' liquidity banks and what you plan to do about it. Are you aware of the weight of this government's work in the past 15 months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30298	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must agree with my colleague from the DS that some restructure companies require certain financial resources. He's absolutely right when he says it was in the early work of party employment and privilege. I'm going to set an example of "Tiger" from Piroth, the part that "Mischelen" didn't buy. Michelen paid 50 million dinars, and the money disappeared during the Mirko Cvetkovic government. Ten million dinars have been paid out of the state, and that money has also disappeared. Some senior government officials even went to resorts belonging to the Pirot Tiger. The company was in front of a bankruptcy. When we changed the director and changed the capital agent, today the "Tiger" in Pirote is a company that works, and it does the export programme, along with advances, 75% of the production is in export and workers receive salaries regularly. That's the difference between the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and this new government. So this is where the money doesn't disappear, it's used to train these companies to enter the privatisation process. When it comes to subsidised loans, it is not the first time that the Government of the Republic of Serbia subsidises loans for the economy by paying the difference of interest from those entering a favourable credit programme between banks and commercial loans. That's not something new, that's what you've been doing. It's just the difference between you and us, which is dinar loans, and even if they're foreign exchange rates, the euro rate is stable. (President: Time.) ) You gave indexed loans in euro during the previous period, people borrowed when the euro was 92, 93, 94 dinars, and they returned these subsidized loans when the euro was 107, 108 dinars. So tell me, please, what kind of subsidy is this? Only in exchange for the exchange rates they lost, plus the interest they paid. That's why we have so many companies in the blockade today. (President: Mr. Arsic, you've exceeded time for 40 seconds. Because they had to cover the curvature differences... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30300	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30301	Mr. Arsic, I'm saying your tone is off. I don't think you're right about the subsidies, because you went into the O.R. at the moment when it was a very interesting moment. I'd just like to remind you what happened here. I think you tried a great distraction or political camouflage to make a story about subsidies as you did yesterday about a slaughterhouse in Mladenov. Otherwise, we got a call from the citizens saying you didn't say exactly what you said last night. So, that industry isn't closed, if it wasn't closed, there'd be an ecological and health disaster, and I have to tell you that because of those people watching this. You have now tried to do the same thing, when we talk about borrowing all the time and that this government is going to charge the country 11 billion euros, and Mirko Cvetkovic has succeeded in seven, four years from now, you will have fired 11 billion euros in two years. The newly unemployed are 50,000 people, you'll fire 60 grand. What happened in the O.R.? Just before you came in, so people know what's going on here, look who's got your back right now? Mr. Cvian. So, he said earlier that he would not vote for this budget and put out some very bold and clear indicators, although he is not in our party, our political group, and he was, but you said then that it was the greatest living Serbian lawyer and man who is the star of the transitional deadline, and now that man to our question, the finding of events on your presidency, not because you are a party or not, but because you have no right to discuss the arrests of people, but you have a lot of things out of control. You started believing a lie from your tabloids. You started living a lie from your tabloids. When a man gets into that, he loses touch with reality, this amendment doesn't matter, this is a replica and think about it, look at the structure of the budget, Mr. Arsic. See where this budget and this government leads us, see where development or "r" is from development in today's Serbia led by the advances.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30302	Replica, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30303	First, as regards the meat industry Damjanović. For what I'm saying, I have a record, and I don't need to be called citizens, but there are documents issued by the state authorities, while they're withdrawing their work permit. So you can't say that conversations, if there were any, are more accurate than state records. So it wasn't about any ecological disaster, it was about a very perfidious way of removing competition, and if all the slaughterhouse industries in Serbia shut down on that principle, they would all be closed down. As for other things, who will vote for the budget or not, that's his problem, because one of the things that we in the SNS have fought for is that there is no longer an imperative mandate for a MP. Whether someone here represents the interests of the citizens for whom the citizens chose him, or other interests, is on his conscience. I will always represent the interests of citizens who have chosen and voted for MPs, regardless of which political party or option, not for any other motive or any other decision, or anything else. I also appeal to all MPs, to handle the interests of citizens who went to the elections, the interests of Serbian citizens, and not of one's private interests. That is the difference between us in the SNS which we are most of and the rest of the political scene in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30304	Thank you. The replica Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30305	I had to answer the line, because my colleague Borko Stefanovic brought out one thing that is not true, I wasn't a member of the DS, please, but I respect DS. However, you are absolutely right, I will also be guided by the interests of the citizens, I do not want to vote in favour of the budget that will bring us another 11 billion borrowings and I do not want to participate in a policy that year and a half after the change of government is based on it – see, these have stolen us, and it could have been the first six months and it was interesting. Obviously, thanks to whoever's running this country, and we know exactly who I mean, we've come into a situation that for a year and a half, we serve the citizens, we're good, but it's no good, because these guys left the debris and the fractures, these last ones. Where are the investments? They're gone. Why did Ferguson leave, why did the good part of the Chinese leave, and what about the affair 8%? Remember what I said, the affair 8% will soon be very interesting. Where are those people? There are no investments, there is no money, and let's just say, we'll be in debt next year, we'll be fired and we'll cut salaries, and Minister Krstic of one zero had to make a budget, and I won't vote for such a budget, and I call on President Nikolic not to sign the budget, because this is not the budget, this is not Serbia we fought for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30306	Mr. Cvian, I beg you, I suggest you, and you behave as you please. Please discuss your internal problem with the party in a specific place, and when it comes to the budget, let's discuss it. He's got a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30307	I'm sorry, I didn't mention any party here. Don't put what I didn't say in my mouth, because I didn't mention any of the parties. Here we talk about the budget and I talk about the budget all the time, there's no investment, there's no layoff, we're in charge, there's gonna be poverty and pay cuts, there's no investment, except for one used plane. That's all I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30308	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30309	First of all, I think that, Mr. Chairman, when things move within the Rules of Procedure, you have to let people speak, especially when they say such nice things. What's a fact, don't let us, Mr. Arsic, go off topic, out of this truly unfortunate and unwanted situation, primarily created by a budget like this. So, you've replaced five veterinary inspectors. You've made chaos and Serbia is on its way to losing its license or what's called the EU thing and meat exports, the tariff number, and that's true, and that's the result of your authority. We've already lost to Russia for milk, too. You've replaced four directors. That's true. We have a budget ahead of us, and there's nothing in that budget about development, there's nothing about employment, there's nothing about the state's progress, and you're talking about progress. When we ask you that in this country, apart from the economic sun, we create such an atmosphere, an atmosphere of persecution and fear, the atmosphere of attack and defilement of people, the atmosphere you believe in, your tabloids, the atmosphere in which, and so we asked, is it true that the powers of the state authorities are being taken over? You're saying that some officials went on vacation. Possibly. I don't know about that. But I do know some of the officials who, during the bombing, got apartments of two acres in this country, Mr. Arsic, while we were going to the front. Here, that's true. You don't think anyone's gonna forget that. That's what this is about. Every time I ask you to take the log out of your eye before you look at the thorn in someone else's eye.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30310	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wish we could develop Serbia as we wish, but we can't because we had to cover the losses of Agrobank, because we had to cover the money from the budget, or the citizens of Serbia, the losses of Vojvodina Development Bank. We can't because the City of Belgrade is in charge of 450m euros, because of one bridge. Let's figure out how many miles that highway is. We cannot develop the Republic of Serbia because we had one small hyper inflation until 2012. We can't develop Serbia as we would like, because 400,000 people are out of work for four years, but at least in one part, while I'm pulling that log out of the eye you're talking about, I saw that inflation this year is 4%, that the foreign trade deficit is reduced, I saw that the euro rate is stable, that it's lower than 18 months when this government was first elected. Those are the results. Those aren't fictional stories. These aren't newspaper articles. These are the results that you can see and feel. Results that give economics to make their own plans and develop, not to give speculative actions money and their profits to some others, as they did before. That's what I'm talking about. As far as the Director of the Veterinary Authority is concerned, we'll change them as long as the Republic Veterinary Administration doesn't start doing its job as prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30312	A member. The 7th division of the 20th and 30th amendments was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Ministers, we see that budget support is dropping. I believe that after this discussion, the support will be even less. In addition to the problems that have arisen, there are problems that this government has not dealt with for a long time, a year and a half, and problems are eating up our society. Three hundred thousand young unemployed people contribute to the fact that the job is number one, youth unemployment is the number one problem in Serbia. When dealing with young people, when dealing with unemployed young people, you are aware that without a job there is no dignity for young people, that there is no plan without a job, no family, no problem with birth, that when you deal with young people without a job in our society there is no chance for young people. Youth unemployment means greater isolation, greater social separations from the budget. Youth unemployment means less money in the budget, which could be spent on further employment. Not to mention that youth unemployment is the cause of many other problems that are eating up our society. My amendment implies or actually opens this topic, and locations four billion from the Contortion Conto Active Employment Measures with an emphasis on first work, with an emphasis on helping to gain experience. The first obstacle faced by young people, today when they finish school, is lack of experience. Employers are looking for young people, or they're looking for workers with experience. Employers don't count on the experience that young people have gained at school. Employers do not count on the experience that young people gain by volunteering. Volunteering in our country isn't working. Young people in our country don't have any volunteer benefits. We changed this law in 2009 and it's better than it was before. If you add to this amendment a change in the national framework of qualifications and competences, to agree on curricula and study programmes with the market, that our education does not produce unemployment. We can give young people a chance in this country, because that's the only thing they're looking for, not a contract in their hands, a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30314	On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30315	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the DSS submitted an amendment to introduce a new economic classification of 621, which existed in the previous budget, in the part of the Ministry of Economy, i.e. tourism, for procurement, or for providing tourism development funds according to special master plans and scheduled competitions of 300 million. I believe that this is extremely important, although it explains that the government is not interested in investing in tourism, and this economic branch is not a priority in the work of the Ministry of Economy. I'd like the finance minister to explain that to me, since the other minister is gone. The funds defined for 947m machines and equipment were actually planned only for six-seater cable company in Kopalnik, the construction of summer playgrounds, which have been planned in three mountain centres since last year. In any case, I believe tourism is one of Serbia's development opportunities. We have mountain tourism, urban, banish, rural within all kinds of tourism, health, sports, cultural and what we need today in this fast-tracked world of fast communication is this short "siti brake", means a period and a time when people can quickly rest on one of our mountains or in one of our spas. All in all, besides marketing, there's no infrastructure here. I mean the roads, I mean the airports, and then after that line, the sewers, the Internet, etc. If the state does not plan to help build infrastructure for tourist centres through the incentive measures, we certainly cannot put our potentials into a sustainable economy and thus improve the economy, because certainly with the development of tourism, which is the perspective of ours and which only in the previous year had a 12% growth, without some specific investment, we cannot improve. It also generates other industries. We have traffic, trade, catering, construction industry, which is very important. I think that, in addition to having tourism developments around the world, he, by the participation of the 7th GDP, has moved to third place, and we in Serbia are easily giving it up. I think it needs to be stimulated, and I think we should put this economic classification 621 back into the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30316	On Article 7 of Sections 23 and 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable ministers, when the debate was in principle, Mr. Minister, you and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic said that this budget would affect the standard of citizens, that it would have to be saved, that rationally and realistically, funds would be spent. However, some things and examples in this budget deny you. Thus in Article 7, relating to the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, division 23, function 111, programme 601, project 001, economic classification 451, amounting to 270 million dinars. In the last budget, the 2013 budget, this figure did not exist and we ask you – what is this 270 million for? You'll agree with me, it's not a small number at all. Probably for certain subsidies, administrations, but we expect you to respond and tell us what they're for. We wanted to transfer these funds to the Ministry of Sports and Youth's portfolio, related to capital investments and the construction of sports halls in rural and poor environments. In this way, a multiple positive effect would be achieved, first of all, animated youth, involved in new clubs. At the age of school and elementary school, many children have deformities. This would result in a health effect because they would have the opportunity to correct these effects. Migration would be prevented, many youth, many interested in sports would stay in the countryside in rural areas. So that's all the positive effects we've submitted this amendment for. I ask you in the end - whether you care about the administration's subsidies, i.e. The administration eats these funds, or is the happiness of a child more important to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30318	On Article 7th of the 24th Amendment, MP Olgica Batic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marija Obradović, Vesna Jovicki, Vesna Milekić and Dubravka Filipovski. The word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Jovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30319	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment was submitted by members of the Women's Parliamentary Network, in line with one of the objectives of the Women's Parliamentary Network, which is the economic empowerment of women, especially women in rural areas, those of women who are engaged in agriculture. The amendment concerns the Fund to encourage the development of agricultural production and subsidies granted from the fund, where we are asking to take particular care that the benefits of this fund will be equal to that of women and men, and in line with the representation in this sector. In fact, women who deal with agriculture have a difficult position because of their unclear status, because they are often assisted by members of agricultural households, and statistics show that around 19% of women are farmers in our country. We have data that in some areas where these data are classified in half, women who, for example, carry 20% and even more agricultural holdings, receive only 2% of the subsidies. This amendment has been rejected, and it explains that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, which is prescribed by the regulations on conditions and the way in which incentives and subsidies are granted, should practically take into account the need to invest in the chances for the employment of women, infrastructure and social services in rural areas, to support women who have registered agricultural holdings and production, because their property status is unclear because they have a difficult entry into the market. It is also necessary to invest specifically in the means to examine the needs of these women, as well as to identify the obstacles that exist in their jobs, because they face them daily and, accordingly, propose adequate programmes to improve their position.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30320	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30321	Thank you. So I'm essentially in favour of this amendment. However, just to explain, the concrete text of the amendment and what it requires, to take into account the way agricultural subsidies are granted is impossible to implement through the budget law. There is a Law on the Grant of Agricultural Subsidies which determines how subsidies are actually granted to registered agricultural holdings. Registered agricultural holdings, we can tell if they're registered in the name of someone who's male or female, the Ministry of Agriculture knows that. However, the way they are deployed is by, say, the number of throats, by the number of livestock, etc. and thus the key to granting subsidies is defined, and it is not possible to adopt such an amendment to the budget law because it is defined by another law. What I propose, and in the context of the development of a gender equality strategy, which I believe you are working on, in which elements it is possible to define in policy regulation, define funds in a way that guarantees gender equality, in which it is immediately possible to do so, within a short period of time, mid-term etc. In the meantime, what I would like to advise and what we have and in our discussions is that, if there is interest in agricultural subsidies, an official memo or an inquiry to the Ministry of Agriculture can be sent. I believe there wouldn't be a problem with seeing exactly who's in those households, how they're registered, etc. In this context, it would be information, but in the direction of increasing this transparency and where it is possible, practically and essentially, to be incorporated into legislation over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30322	The word has the People's MP Vesna Jovicki, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30323	I thank the Minister for this answer. Members of the Women's Parliamentary Network will do everything possible to get in touch with the competent ministry and find adequate ways to address the very problems I have brought forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30324	Thank you. On Article 7th, the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the amendment, the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ruzica Igić, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30325	Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the amendment I submitted refers to the funds identified for the Budget Fund for the Forests. I want to point to the next one. The Budget Fund for the Forests lost one significant inflow on the grounds that you passed a law last year that abolished the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest, which amounted to 0.025% of the income of all production entities, totaling about two billion dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the total amount. This part is planned for this year for the 510 million dinar Budget Fund. I also point out that last year these funds were planned at 810 million dinars, while, three years ago, in 2011, the Budget Fund for the Forests amounted to 594 million dinars. So we gave more to that budget fund in 2011 than we're planning now in 2013. The state of Serbian forests is very worrying. Generally, our forests are panicking, mostly cut down after World War II. The situation in the woods isn't great. Forest roads are in catastrophic condition. Each of us here should plant at least three trees as much as those trees produce the oxygen we need. In this way and by treating the forest, we have a situation where our forests fail, that our forest roads fail, that our wood is collapsing, that we have a host of lepers, an intense drying of forests, and so on, we have a very bad situation in forestry. Please consider how this figure can be increased and sort of solve this problem that exists in forestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30326	The amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Kitanovic to section 7th and 28th. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30327	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of this amendment to the URS, as well as in the past few, we are trying to speed up the agriculture we were talking about when this government came together. I'm glad there's still someone in our position who's consistent with that. This amendment is intended to address those problems that are most unique in smaller land, to increase direct payments from six to nine thousand dinars of land which are up to five hectares, under 40 years old and which are holders of these landowners, of course, women. Mr. Krstic, I must ask you on behalf of the minimum 45,000 owners that are within this range I mentioned, this is not a political struggle. This is a struggle of national interest for which I personally and our party the URS have been from the beginning. I'm asking you why we're tearing down something this government has already brought before the reconstruction? Why do we want to bring down something that Mr. Knezevic and Mr. Mladjan Dinkic have already brought? I've been to such a government, Mr. Baptizer. It's not my interests, I'm a farmer, so a lot of people who can barely exist, and we still don't have a chance to help them. Unfortunately, I'm 45 years old, that's what they said in the DS, in the SPS, and during Joseph Broz Tito, we have to find time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30328	Thank you. On Article 7th, 25 amendments were submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mladen Grujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30329	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, this is my 10th or 11th time to participate in budgeting. I don't count rebalancing. Experience tells me that every MP has some personal interest when he submits the amendment. I don't mean anything by it, because simply an MP from, for example, Kurzumli asks for more money for local high school, an MP from Sainta is asking for more money for a health home in Sainta and all that. It's all normal. Here is the amendment I submit exclusively out of personal interest, with this personal interest being achieved exactly 24 years ago, when I graduated and went abroad to practice and then turned into a permanent job in the KPMG in Milan, Italy. I don't need to tell you from MacKenzie how impossible it was to get that job if I didn't get it through the student exchange. Today is my moral obligation to try to create conditions for someone else to get the chance I was given back then. In the amendment's proposal, I proposed that the funds, around 14 million dinars, be allocated to finance the IAESTE student exchange organisation, and as a way I suggested that part of the money be removed from Serbia's nuclear facilities. If you don't remember, Serbia's nuclear facilities, it's what they bought from the state budget a year and a half ago to the director of winter and summer cars. Please, what is more important in Serbia, that the director of nuclear, as it is already called, drives the winter "Mazdin" jeep, and flies "Hondu Arrd", loves Japanese cars, or that 280 students go to practice abroad? Do you know that 69% of Serbian students have never been abroad? Are you aware of how frightening this is? I'm not saying that abroad is getting better, but that abroad has material evidence that some things know better than we do. Mr. Minister, you're in the minister's seat because you deserve it and you've graduated from school abroad. You've gained experience in MacKenzie. Why should you and I deny other children, some other students the right to acquire knowledge abroad, when the two of us have our careers, based on the fact that at some point in our lives, someone has allowed us to work beyond Serbia's borders and study alongside the better of us? I don't know if there's anyone in your environment who used to go to some student practice to ask him, think, what, for example, would it be better for some physics student to go to practice in Oslo, Norway or send him to nuclear facilities in Vinci, where he can see two car managers in a company parking lot? In the answer you gave me, it simply says: The Ministry of Education does not foresee funding for student exchanges. I don't think that's a good answer and I'd be interested in whether there's any way to change your mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30330	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30331	So, like I said, I'm just reading a detailed explanation and we checked this out with the Ministry of Education and Science and within the means that they've been identified. They have set priorities, so the draft budget is also in this regard and, unfortunately, the rejection of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30332	By amendment, MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30333	Thank you. I was just about to support my colleague's amendment. It's just that we should consider... I'm a man who comes from economic college, we had AIESEC there, who also dealt with this international exchange of students and I as an activist when I went through these many programs, projects and I didn't get to go to the student exchange. Those who were, they benefited greatly from it. Some of them were trained there, perfected, and I think it should be thought about it in some perspective, that these students' associations, and organisations really systemed up and planned in the coming periods through the budget. We have managed, howled and prayed through various ways and methods to try in some way to go and participate when these meetings and seminars of the international organisation are held. Let's make this just one lump to start the avalanche. I don't mean the avalanche in a negative sense, but let's just see if we can solve it permanently in some of the next periods. I think we can make some redistribution through savings and streamlining everything that's been negative in the past when it comes to science, that our resources are still going in the right direction, not that they're spending on some, what's being mentioned in the media these days, that I'm not being trendy and personal these days, because they accuse me of being personal, but time will show who did what they did and what money was spent on, and we didn't spend it for real purposes, i.e. to the student and to their completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30334	The word has a folk MP, Mladen Grujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30335	I thank my colleague Radenkovic for his support. Let me just point out that the organization he was talking about is called AIESEC, which is traditionally financed by itself. It is, however, economic students, and here I have tried to support IAESTE, students of technique that, by definition, are not quite the most capable when it comes to money organizations. That is why all EU countries support IAESTE, and AIESEC itself is financed. I'm sorry we can't meet among these countries that support their student organisations, but well, my God, we don't support many other maybe smarter things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30336	Thank you. On article 7th, 25 amendments were submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanović Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30337	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will support my colleague Grujic's amendment, but I won't now, I don't have time to explain it. Ladies and gentlemen, here's some good news. Minister, I thank you, not only on behalf of the URS parliamentary group and my own name, but on behalf of me, I think I can say all of Serbia, because what we did with this amendment is to support Serbia's development chances. What's this about? This is an amendment that provides Petniki with stable funding at least this year and in this budget of 30 million dinars. This is the amendment the state says - no, Petnica does not have to beg for money. No, not every minister of education or science has to go to Petnica to take a picture, and then let the people of Petnica come and beg him a hundred times to get some money. This amendment says yes, Petnica cares about the state and no, we don't need Megatrend to finance Petnica. That's why what we did is important. I thank you for giving me the opportunity personally and the URS to be the first to put the Petnica in the budget clearly and loudly. Why does it matter? Not just because of this year, but because of the years that are coming, because I hope no one will ever be encouraged to throw Petnica out of the budget again. Indeed, it is a humiliating position in which 40,000 Petnica and 2,000 participants attended last year. But what I'm not satisfied with is, of course, the amount that we've defined to Petniki. I will allow, in the context of the debate that we have been having since the morning, that the great war is very important for Serbia's promotion and for the marking of the past and states, yes, monuments are more important to us than children and the future. But, Minister, I ask you, this is your budget, how many times is it important? Five times, three times, eight times. No, 20 times the amount to be allocated for the great war, but the funds to be allocated to Petnica. We cannot be satisfied with this, and I invite you all to have not 30 in the next budget of Petnica, but at least 100 million, because she deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30338	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30339	Just to be very clear, since you had one inconsistency. I didn't even claim to report what you said, since you first said the U.S.S. was the first person to put Petnica in the budget, and then that this is my budget for the part that's wrong. I just want to point that out. Your budget this year, when everything you talked about, was actually happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30340	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30341	Well, no, you see, Minister, I did make a mistake, but so did you. It's not your budget or ours. The budget is the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. But I thanked you both that you and I are responsible for this year's budget. I thanked you at the very beginning. I think it's important. Today you are the Minister of Finance, today I am an MP, tomorrow there will be someone else. But what's important is that the Petnica was found clearly and explicitly in the budget for the first time. Because, as I said, none so far, and you will agree that this should not be excessive or concern of the finance minister, nor of the one who was before you, nor of you. You happen to be a member of Petnica and you happen to know what this is about. That's why you had the understanding to accept this amendment. But not every finance minister has to know every detail. Those who need to know are education ministers, science ministers, and none of them have ever said that Petnica is their priority. Two months ago, I asked the Minister of Education what he was going to do for the stable financing of the Petnica? You know what he said to me? He replied that Petnica is the priority of the Ministry of Education and Science. When the budget came, I didn't see that Petnica was a priority, but I saw that Petnica would have to beg for money again. I really think it's humiliating and destructive and that it's something we can't allow, if we want young people like you and all the children who are students of Petnica to really lead Serbia. Because they go into the world, they're qualified to study and teach at the world's most prestigious universities, they're Petniks coming back, but unfortunately Serbia's not coming back, because they should work with a high school graduate like you. To return to Serbia, it is important that Serbia says – yes, Petnica is ours. That's why I think this amendment is important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30342	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30343	I do not claim that I put it in the budget and I just want to draw your attention that your amendment, and there have been other amendments only for technical reasons, have not been identical, have been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where all the ministers are sitting and that this is the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not my own. Not for the reason I did or I wasn't a goner. At the very end of the line, I hope that the entire, as an amendment, People's Assembly will vote on it. I just wanted to clear it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30344	On page 7, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Gorica Mojovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Maja Vidinovic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30345	The amendment proposed that the funds proposed by the budget should be transferred to programmes and projects to mark the World War I anniversary of 680 million. I must say, we have done this amendment very carefully. We've distributed some 533 million to almost 20 positions. Then this amendment, as well as other amendments concerning culture and information, became pointless, as the government's amendment arrived in the meantime. This isn't an amendment. This is a whole new budget. This case is unprecedented in parliamentary practice. You get a draft budget, and then the government makes an amendment that completely changes that budget, and MPs don't have the right to react and every amendment becomes meaningless. Now, I guess I should be satisfied, because this amendment budget in the most part, in the good part, followed logic and our amendment, followed the logic and remarks that we made on the Committee on Culture that it was irrational to plan to spend nearly 25m euros on investment and machinery and equipment, because that, believe me, can't even "Srbigas" in one year and is not known to respect public procurement. Of course, the ministry has also recognised these funds for investment re-distributed mainly to programmes and projects. But there's one problem, and I can't be satisfied how it did it. If you look at that redistribution, and for the protection of cultural heritage and for contemporary creation, there are 11 million each, nine million at 17, 25 etc., but therefore for a position called publishing and literary creation 306 million. Why? Why is there 620 million left to mark World War I? (President: Time.) Let me finish. No matter how much funds for the programmes are raised here, they won't have anyone to implement them, because we've banned new employment and restricted employment under the Culture Treaty to 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30346	Thank you. On paragraph 7, the amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30347	Dear Minister, I am Sasa Milenic, one of Serbia's well-intentioned, naive and stupid citizens, who do not have any real political power or any real wealth, but I have genuine confidence that the Republic of Serbia is a parliamentary democracy based on the Constitution and the law. To be honest with you, I know that maybe on the tarraba you can put something in writing, but not at all in the Constitution, and because of that very seriously, I literally understand everything that the Constitution says. Thus, this is the most representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia provided with the exclusive right to bring exclusively the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I thought it was well-intentioned that it made sense to act amendment to the draft budget, cut 28th on culture, spent a lot of time on my part and by the parliamentary group to propose such a complex amendment. How stupid I was to realize yesterday at the Committee on Culture session when I realized that we had submitted the amendment to a text called the Bill on Budgets. And this is actually the culture budget. The government has used the right to submit an amendment that has completely changed the overall and conceptual proposal for a budget for culture, and we do not have the right to act on amendments, so we are left without the right of amendment to the culture budget. I've been doing so much regression and I'm still wearing donkey ears since yesterday that I'm rereading Erasmus and Praise of Crazyness, because I know that in lying short legs, manipulative technique isn't getting far, and when that day of collision with reality comes, it's going to turn out that manipulative wisdom was madness, and this stupid naiveity of mine, actually wisdom. But then it will be too late for well-intentioned suggestions, as this amendment wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30348	To Article 7. Split 30 amendments were submitted by MP Ranka Savic. To Article 7. Splitting 30 amendments was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30349	Here's another one in a series of amendments that's trying to correct something that's foreseen in this budget. This is my fifth budget in a row. One and the same member of the law, one and the same way I try to draw attention to something called the work of certain organizations of particular importance for society and for the country in general. It is, in fact, a fighting-inhabited organisation, those organisations that greatly depreciate the lack of understanding of society and state when it comes to what is called the needs of people who defended the state when it was necessary and when the state called on them to participate in the defence of its borders. From year to year, the funds allocated to 70 republican organisations, the most significant of these organisations is Sava fighters, which is SUBNOR, an internationally recognised organisation, are becoming smaller and smaller and all this would be no big deal if the whole proposal for this budget did not show that there is much room for increasing these funds when it comes to these organisations. Of course, I've tried before, given that people with disabilities and organisations who gather people with disabilities get from gambling, one percent, etc. We even tried to make some interventions here. However, there was simply no hearing, no understanding, as well as all that concerning those people who defended this country and that there was no hearing and understanding for their needs, it is evident that there is neither. This time I made an amendment to a division where some 15 billion and 115 million for basic rights and the government's response to endanger fundamental rights simply doesn't stand. Why isn't it standing? In several issues in the past sessions, I have drawn attention to the abolition of the rights of disabled military people and somewhere in the past calendar year, thousands of solutions have been abolished. It created a space where the extra money, where the money could have gone to the other side. Of course, it is not foreseen in that budget, I will use the remaining time of the parliamentary group, and it is not explained that these funds are also allocated for the maintenance of cemeteries, memorials around the world, about hundreds of memorials that the Ministry is running and held for various celebrations, various celebrations, etc. I personally thought there might be an intervention here. I understand, Mr. Minister, that you do not have the authority here to accept such an amendment, as no amendment from us MPs, and that we here, in simple language, are beating empty straw and fulfilling our wishes that we want to prove that we are fighting for certain groups, whether it be culture, education, etc. However, I urge you to think a little bit about this amendment, whether it is possible to accept it because from the current labour means of the Ministry of Labour, as this amendment relates, there is room for improving the working conditions of organisations that are very important when it comes to state and user relations. They're an amortization factor that gathers a large number of war participants, which are primarily a social category, at least that's how they're led here, and they don't deserve to be. The importance of these organizations should also be seen in the following year from the point of view that the Jubilee 100 years since the First World War, I especially see in various divisions the intended means for celebrations and organizational things, so that we give these people a little bit of meaning and some space that they can feel that the state is thinking about them, especially when I've been trying to reach the Law on Combat-Inhabitation. It's impossible and there is obviously no political will to think about and think about it, and that's why we think that this kind of move to adopt amendments would lead to the convergence of the attitudes and needs of all those people who defended this country and turned their eyes on the state that it didn't just so easily raise their hands from them, even though they gave as much as they could for their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30350	The word has a folk MP, Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30351	Mr. Minister, I see that the amendment of my respected colleague will also be rejected, and if I may ask you, and we will meet for sure on the budget rebalancing that is imminent, let's see that some money is set aside for the future of the country, for the students and for the country's past, for the people who fought for it. We're weak in this present if we don't take care of the past and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30352	On Article 7th, 30 amendments were submitted by MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30353	Thank you, Mr. Arsenović. The aim of this amendment is to distribute the funds differently, all within the same section of 30, which is the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, and that part of the budget that is intended for the adaptation of NGOs, and that this amount is reduced by 100 million dinars and that these funds shift to some other economic classifications and to two. The first change or 80 million dinars to focus on obtaining new more modern equipment for more useful use in home accommodation facilities, disabled, old people and people with mental difficulties. It's equipment like electric beds, hydroaustic chair lifts, other aids. It's the first shift. The second is to focus some of the funds, 20 million dinars of this sum, towards professional training of workers in social institutions, institutions providing social services. Why? Because today, professionals and associates and other employees in the area do not have professional training, but also if training is organised then they bear these costs and you can imagine when it is a small salary for people to make it very difficult for their professional training and then there are consequences for services and their work. You explained it in an explanation, and I know what they're up to and what organizations are funding in that section of 481 and that there are local self-governments that really have local associations of people with disabilities and other social humanitarian organisations. They provide services. However, you have some local self-governments where there really are no associations of citizens who have the capacity to provide quality services, and that is why I believe that here an unwarranted amount of money has been allocated, and that we have institutions with home accommodation where you do not have adequate equipment or where equipment is over 30 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30354	On Article 7th, 33 amendments were submitted by MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30355	I am very unpleasantly surprised by the response I received from the Ministry, that this amendment is not in line with the Budgetary System Act, and I will tell you that I have submitted this amendment as chairman of the Committee on Security Control, given that everyone in the Committee has agreed that this is an amendment that will go when the budget is on the agenda. We didn't meet as a board. We didn't have the opportunity, and that's why as a MP, I submitted this amendment. What's this about? So, in the 2012 report, we made a recommendation to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic and Prime Minister Dacic, which refers to the means of work of the Security Service being planned in accordance with, of course, the Law on the Budgetary System and the sublaws adopted under this law, but that, in the very Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia and the report on the implementation of the budget, they show only the total amount, and not at the level of applications and standard economic classifications. Therefore, the Security Control Committee did not propose that the laws were not respected. Therefore, it is not our amendment contrary to the Budget Law, but we have only suggested that some other regulations of the Republic of Serbia be respected, other than the Law on the Budgetary System, and for example, it is the Law on the secrecy of data. I will remind you that the draft budget is being submitted to the European Union. You should have considered, Mr. Minister, you could have noticed that I made the argument that it was settled practice in the countries of the European Union. I didn't mention the U.S., since I expect you to know and you know very well how secret information is stored there and respects the secrecy of the data that was created in the service. So I really don't think you're familiar with the fact that the BIA, which this is about, has submitted a draft budget to your ministry with a label, or a degree of secrecy, is confidential. The Data Securitisation Act makes clear the powers to recall the confidentiality of the data. I don't think the individuals in your ministry are authorized to take down the secrecy of the data... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... which are addressed to your ministry and I ask you, although I can see that this amendment will not be adopted, I will file it again at first, and you should consider respecting the Privacy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30356	Thank you. National MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30357	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, I think there is a terrible mistake in not accepting this amendment. If we hadn't violated what was important to her in this country, which is the Institute of Secret in general, State Secrets, etc., this proposal would not have been in the budget, over the problem a colleague of Joksimovic spoke of, it would not have appeared in this form. We became a state without secrets, all in the name of democracy. Don't let anyone accuse me now of being against democracy. But, when you look at it, the countries in the world with the most developed democracy have exactly the strictest kept state secrets, and we allow at the session of the Assembly, if you remember, when we talked about the Resolution on Negotiations with Brussels, to succumb to pressures in the Parliament itself from certain parties, that the thing that should be a specific secret, Mr. Chairman, will be taken from the time of the parliamentary group, we allowed then to remove the veil of secrets from that document and to drastically disable ourselves in the follow-up of the negotiations in Brussels. Even that. If it stays in the budget as it is said and does not accept the sowing amendment, we will definitely do what is synonym in the world, in every country, in the synonym of keeping secrets, we will reveal and present as in the palm of the world. Please, when it comes to security services referred to by colleague Joksimovic, it is also about the services of counterintelligence and intelligence. If we're protecting the state counterintelligence, we can't go public with how we're doing it, and we're doing it right through this. What is the strongest argument, I also asked Minister Krstic when our group met with him -- how much of the draft budget covered the laws and conclusions, the attitudes of the Assembly that we adopted during the year? One of these is the one that led the chairman of the Security Control Committee, which is not to show the budget for this purpose in the usual way, as everyone else shows. The strongest argument is that she stated that we adopted that conclusion and said very specifically in the conclusion that when the budget is in order, it must be kept in mind. We're breaking it directly now. Where will we reach, as a Assembly, if we do not respect our own conclusions and attitudes in the new decisions we make, like this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30358	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30359	I just want to say that I'm going through the Budget System Act right now, where it clearly says that it has to be passed according to programming and economic classification as well. If we can do another round of consultations, since it's over, it should have been, I mean, the Legislative Committee as an amendment, to see if there's a basis for not showing it as such. Of course, I have nothing against it, but it's important that I respect the law. At the very least, the Assembly is a legislative body, and in that sense you can decide how you will act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30360	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, in Article 9, you say that you have defined that in the following year no more than 20% of the total number of civil servants in the state authority will advance and receive a higher salary. I'd like you to listen to me, because I think this parliament is a place where we can discuss amendments, and later we can discuss other things elsewhere. I really don't know how you guys defined it to be 20% maximum. It can progress 1%, it can progress 3%, it can advance 25%. How's it going? I guess they're progressing according to the results of their work, they're progressing towards their motivation. Speaking of motivation, I think that's the biggest problem with this provision here in law. It's clear to me that you've defined yourself according to the means, but it's completely demotive compared to the apparatus, to a bureaucratic apparatus that's obviously large, trom, slow, not efficient. You don't give him a chance at all to try. There's no motive for trying. He will advance as you predicted. This year, you know who's going to make progress, next year you know who's going to make progress, and then you build a quick answer office that needs citizens to do a job that's actually doing a bureaucratic apparatus. I just don't see that this is good, I don't see that this is motivated for anyone and I don't see that this is the way. When you were talking about green money, Mr. Minister, I have to remind you that you are actually the Minister of Ecology, because while there was a Nature Protection Fund, we are the funds that polluters paid for at the Ministry of Ecology. Now they're going to the budget. You're the one who defines those assets. That's why it's weird not to know how she spends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30362	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30363	The provisions of the budget system law stipulate that the Law on the Budget of the Republic contains provisions of importance for the implementation of the budget. As one of these provisions, and in the context of the situation in which we are in this situation, it was also in the 2012 budget, and also in 2013 and that's the part that we talked about when we talked about the salary increase, also, why it happens, to connect these two discussions. There's no chairman of the board. Also, economic calsifications for the BIA were shown last year. I know practice in other countries, and I don't think it's a waste of planning it, but I'm not showing it. Then we'd have to define it in the Budgetary System Act, which we had opportunities to do now, but we didn't since we changed it, because we didn't get that proposal. We can do that for next year anyway, and now for this year, let's see what's in accordance with the law. We acted in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30364	Thank you. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30365	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Let's start over. It was in both the 2012 and 2013 budgets. Is that why we need to rewrite it in 2014 as well? I simply think that you as a government have defined yourself as making the work of a bureaucratic apparatus more effective and that is why I have submitted this amendment. What's written there, there's no reason not to change it if it turns out to be inadequate, and it turns out to be inadequate. The bureaucratic apparatus obviously, as it is, has done nothing if you have defined you to build an office for quick answers and to pay Serbian citizens, besides all administrative workers, and the office. I think it's very important for you first of all as a government to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30366	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanić submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30367	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Minister, we have here in Article 11 suggested that he be deleted. It is only one in a series of members describing a technique that cannot be broken by the budget. We don't think there's really a need for us to break the law, and that's enough of what's defined in other laws. I think it's actually a bigger problem that we have with the budget and this set of economic laws. The fact that the government's representatives haven't basically worked in the economy, so maybe they're making things a little more complicated. But what I think when we talk about the budget and at all about a set of economic measures, is that we need to make sure that we have the principle of taking what we take from the economy through taxes, that we need to bring back the economy through the creation of a favourable business environment and invest in those branches of economy where without any particular problems and difficulties we can get out of income. As I was saying, it's tourism. I really think that in this particular area we can improve the economy without some major investment, as it was in the previous period. I believe that our tax policy should stimulate reinvestment in the economy, as countries in the environment do and above all attract investors, but also domestic, not just foreign ones, by providing equal treatment, for example, as regards tax collection, better control and certainly reducing the grey economy. I really think that, first of all, when we're doing the budget, we should take care of it most.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30368	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, Bojana Bozanić, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic submitted their national letters together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30369	Thank you, esteemed chairman. I would just like to take the opportunity to say that we, as MPs, are trying to improve every law and, of course, the budget. All MPs are working hard, but they may not arrive at every member to make some amendments. I think it is very important to say that the DSS is primarily in favour of improving the conditions for education and the development of students and that we will support the amendment of counterpart Mladen Grujic, which concerns this area. If, as I have heard, all MP groups from the opposition and the positions, the NS and the SPS vote, then we will adopt this amendment. I think the Ministry of Education will have to put that into its priority, as you just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30370	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Radmila Gerov submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30371	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Krstic, Article 13 has been given powers to you, but as Minister of Finance, of course, you have the right to suspend temporarily the transfer from the Republic of Serbia's budget or belonging part of the income tax or company tax, unless the beneficiaries of the budget are acting in accordance with Article 1, i.e. The priority in carrying out the expenditure is not the constant cost of liquid repairs, maintenance and material. We felt it was necessary to delete: "the corporate tax", regardless of the fact that part of it belongs to the AP Vojvodina, for the reasons that this Budget Law violates the constitutional rights of the Vojvodina to define 7% of the revenue for the AP from the budget. I need to ask you something. You're a three-month minister of finance. Did you, in accordance with this member of some local self-government, suspend the transfer of transfer funds or a corresponding part of the income tax? Could your co-worker possibly tell you if it was done this year for at least one local self-government in Serbia or if this member of the law stands to suffer everything? Namely, why do I ask you that? The fact is, some local self-governments don't carry out expenses this way. As an example, I will name the city of Zaječar. These priorities are not permanent costs of ongoing repairs, maintenance and material. While schools have no money for these basic expenses, the city's budget is spent on concerts, TV and more. You, Mr. Minister, know that Article 27 of the Budgetary System Act provides that units of local self-government cannot project into a budget with a deficit greater than 10%. Yesterday, a decision was adopted in the city on a budget that envisions a deficit greater than 10%.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30372	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Bojana Bozanić, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. Minister, you wanted a word at the previous exhibit? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30373	Just to answer that this year, under the RIN Act, transfers have been suspended. I didn't understand which city you asked me last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30374	Thank you. The word is Radmil Gerov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30375	Yes, you stopped. These are the deadlines for carrying out commercial transactions, but here's no question. This article says this – if the budget user does not pay for electricity and water first, and pays for it, for example. First of all, the cost of the concert, that you should stop the transfer. I specifically asked you about the town of Zaječar, who made a decision yesterday in the Assembly about the deficit. So the budget decision was taken yesterday at a session of the City of Zaječar Assembly with a deficit of over 10%. That's for example. contrary to Article 27z of the Budgetary System Act. They're still planning a 250 million debt over that. If the Ministry of Finance, I don't mean personally, has control and how it can react when local self-government provides for you, for example. A deficit greater and contrary to what's legal? This Article 13 is not respected in that city. So I ask, Minister, does paper suffer everything, and then those local self-governments that respect the law are punished in relation to those local self-governments that are politically similar to this government, which can carry out other expenditures, and then leave electricity debts and all other debts that are practically due first in some subsequent elections?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30376	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30377	We still haven't got the decision of the city of Zaječar on the budget. When we get it, we'll look at it. Of course, the Budgetary System Act states that we can take measures if, without the consent of the Finance Ministry, some of these fiscal rules are violated. As far as the policy is concerned, we want to put order in all of this, but we're going to do it right through the talks and we're going to look at the situation where it's all in place, and in this time of override, until we adopt a new law on funding local self-government that would regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30378	Thank you. The word is Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30379	I truly believe in your sincere intentions to introduce financial discipline and order related to the beneficiaries of the budget and the way in which local self-government will respect the instructions and instructions you provided them for the 2014 budget plan. Since you've only been a minister for three months, I just want to point out one more thing. Many local self-governments simply inflate incomes, for example. Two billion, and the achievement is one billion and 300. This is done only and only because in certain positions they can spend on lunches, cafes, etc. If you want to introduce order, consider my proposal that the income that local self-governments predict for next year must be compared to the revenue they had in the previous year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30380	Thank you. I'll say it again. So, on Article 13th of the amendment, Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted their MPs. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30381	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Article 13, speaks of the obligations of the beneficiaries of the budget on payment of claims and penalties for non-execution. We've suggested that local self-government be notified within five days of suspending the transfer. In fact, the largest number of local self-governments in Serbia is currently the most financed from these transfers, i.e. paying these basic services precisely from transfer funds, because they do not have enough of their original revenues and cannot meet those most essential needs. The bottom line of these last tax reforms we've had is to increase the resources in the state budget and reduce the budgets of local self-government, which we think is very bad and that the decentralisation of which so much talk is not working. From Belgrade, from that centre of power, we send penalties or punish municipalities and unless public institutions pay some of these costs in time, and for example local self-government cannot be referred to whether these public institutions paid in time. Maybe they keep accounts in their accounts? Then there is a dragon penalty, a reduction of those transfer funds, which I say, most local self-government in Serbia and lives. The intensity of this amendment was that local self-government was kind of dissipating. Because, regardless of the 80% profit tax goes to local self-government budgets, it was reduced from 12% to 10% last year, which felt in all local self-governments and suggested an even greater reduction of that tax. I really believe that if, for example, the state were willing to give up those 20% of the income tax, then we could talk about reducing this tax and thus help employers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30382	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30383	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 13 paragraph 7 mentions public enterprises as budget users, primarily the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". You say, "The public enterprise "Serb Roads" has an obligation to deliver the same to the Treasury Ministry within five working days of the start of its financial plan's implementation." So public enterprises have been really for years, and I can say for decades, their work has been completely out of control. They were doing their job very badly, unquality or not doing it at all, and they were in enormous debt. You have in this draft budget countless public enterprises that are users of various loans on which the state continues to be in debt on their behalf, so you have railways, electricity, "Srbigas" and the like. I think it's very important that this five-day deadline be reduced. Mrs. Banovic and I have suggested that the deadline be 48 hours. I see that the amendment was accepted by fellow Milivojevic, who was on exactly the same track. I don't mind, it's important to really get under control and have insight into the work of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30384	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30385	Madam Chairman, I have submitted an amendment that says the finance minister is obliged to do the manner and content of the monthly report from Article 1 to 31 December 2013. I have been told that this amendment is not accepted because there is no practical form of obligation. When I handled this amendment, I, like every DS MP, predicted how much you would actually be in a hurry to bring this budget. We saw that last night, when we were working without television, without Serbian citizens having the right to see the debate in parliament on the budget. Then I thought you cared to really cut all these deadlines as short as possible. However, it is obvious that this intention of yours does not stand. You just wanted to avoid public debate in front of TV cameras, and you're not in a hurry. Because the disagreements in the ruling coalition stemming not only from Mr. Cvian and his exposure, they're huge. On this occasion, I call on the President of the Republic not to sign this bill on the budget, to find another 20 Vladimir Cvian in its ranks and to save the citizens of Serbia from these charges. I am absolutely convinced that there will be more free-thinking people in the SNS who will say that the budget is bad, that deadlines and terms are bad, that they will go out in front of the citizens and demonstrate their courage by voting against this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30386	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Marija Obradovic, Tamara Tripic, Vesna Jovicki, Donka Banović, Jelena Travar Miljević, Vesna Milekić and Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the 14th amendment. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30387	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you are a brave minister when you rejected the amendment of the Women's Parliamentary Network, and based on the MPs who signed this amendment, then you should have concluded that this amendment has the support of the entire parliament. What did the Women's Parliamentary Network suggest or try? In Article 14, paragraph 2, where it is said that the Minister in charge of finance affairs is closer to edits the manner and content of the monthly report, you should only add the words: "taking care that all data is to be classified and shown in half". I kind of accept this as your explanation. You're telling us that a legal person doesn't have a full membership, which women in the Women's Parliamentary Network know. But this is also an attempt for you to try those who deliver to you, both monthly, quarterly or annual reports, that you are asking that those legal entities sort their data in the reports in half. In one sentence, I'll try to explain the problem. So, when planning sectoral policies, people meet every day with the absence to say, gender-sensitive statistics, or we don't have statistics that are shown by half. This presents a very big problem in planning sectoral policies. So I ask you once again on behalf of the Women's Parliamentary Network that you accept both this amendment and one of these last members, because it was the intention of the Women's Parliamentary Network.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30388	Anyone else want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The Resolution Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajević. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30389	This amendment is similar to the previous one. He's actually talking about us keeping in mind the small local self-government that needs to be notified in time of the late report from Article 1 here. In fact, small local self-governments, along with the difficulties they constantly face, need to be relieved in the sense that they will not be punished immediately if any of these reports are missing. We've provided for a two-day deadline for them to be informed. Why? Because this report, for various reasons, can't come in time, does the mail schedule, if a postman who may not be able to bring it in on time, maybe some official who works in local self-government long ago, so he doesn't use new means of communication, so he can't send it electronically. Then he goes to sick leave, or something else happens, and now that we can't hire anyone else to replace him, there can be no one to send this report in time. That's why I think small municipalities that don't have enough financial resources because of their large budgets, and also the inability to fill them with any and any lack of personnel of any kind or of any other kind, can't fill this often. Then I think the Ministry of Finance is supposed to meet here, to step in, for example. in a telephone connection with representatives of the authorities in the local self-government and to inform them of the delay. There's certainly not a lot of such local self-government, but those who are small should really help them, who don't have enough personnel and explain to them that they're late with the reports and how they might have to do it if they didn't. In the previous budget law for 2013, this was not the position. We all know what kind of funding problems local self-government is facing. They have these original incomes that are getting smaller. We also have the benefits of the Republic, there we have income tax, inheritance, gift, transfer of absolute rights, etc., but we have transfers that are getting smaller and smaller. I really think that we both need the state and the finance ministry to help make sure that local self-government doesn't run out of resources because they won't be able to function, and then with that, neither will the state be able to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30390	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. The word has Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30391	Thank you. I'm really not happy with this argument. We've been looking, so first of all we're talking about payments to the budget of all those profits of all the public enterprises, public agencies. We said that companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia should, unless he wants to pay that profit, and wants to invest in investments, as it stands in the law, that the government should agree on an investment plan with an accurate review of the funds in which it will invest. Indeed, when the substance of the amendment is valid, it seems to me, then you are calling for form. Then it is said – business means that all companies submit their investment plans to the government for consent, because we left behind whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. That absolutely doesn't matter, because in this Article 15, we're talking about these companies right now, so we could only think about these companies. We just wanted to strengthen the commitment of companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, that they have to invest certain things. So the government has to agree to this investment plan, so it doesn't happen, for example. that a company invests its profits in order to avoid taxing on profit or on a budget, e.g. to buy official cars or renovate some rooms, or to buy some other things, which actually do not represent investment investments. This year, revenues from agencies, the National Bank, from public enterprises, are planned, about seven billion dinars. We think it'll be much better if the company invests in something, so invests, where new funds can be generated, that next year we have a bigger tax, of course we have a bigger profit, we have a bigger budget, either way, than the funds, for example. They spend in vain, or they go back to the budget. Anyway, I think it's a lot better if we don't get into a situation where we're wasting those resources in a nutshell and we don't have any effect on it. I really ask you to think again rationally about this amendment, because I think it's pretty good without just calling on the form.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30392	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Teodora Vlahovic. The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30393	Dear Ministers, this amendment, colleague Janko Veselinović and I have submitted only with experience from everyday life and work. There were great dilemmas, and your ministry colleagues must know that local authorities have come to an opinion on the payment of jubilee awards. This budget says that in 2014, only those jubilee awards for which the right was acquired in 2014. I will agree with your argument that acquired rights must be respected, and that they will be paid for those who have acquired, let's say this month in December, which has not been paid, that this will be paid in 2014. Since a clear legal norm has much greater meaning than any ministry without the intention of offending anyone, but it is thus ranked in the legal system, we believe that this is how the norm is defined, which says it refers only to acquired rights in 2014, will lead again to dilemmas and return to the Ministry of Opinion. What is even worse can lead to some direct, indirect and other budget beneficiaries being equally applied, which would be much greater damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30394	The government has submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, Members of the People's Parliaments, Bojana Bozanić, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted. The word has Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30395	Dear Minister, we are talking about local self-government in this article 16 too. It is the easiest burden of this crisis and all obligations to pass on to local self-government, to municipalities and cities. We have in this article 16, it's said that the non-payment of jubilee awards should go to the burden of local self-government. It's not as terrible as the punishment will be to suspend the transfer funds. The schools, as you know, are in the system of the Ministry of Education, the salaries for the employees of the education are again on the burden of the Ministry of Education. I think local self-government only pays for heat and transportation for students, buildings where schools are owned by the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education is setting up directors. The municipalities and cities are forced to provide funds from their budgets for these jubilee awards, and it's not so bad, but it's a terrible thing to suspend the transfer is actually a punishment for this. I don't think that's right and that local self-government can't have that kind of punishment, because we've talked about the obligation of local self-government constantly being imposed, but they're not given the means to meet it. For the past year and a half as many as I am a National MP, I am a witness only to cut funds for local self-government and to impose new obligations on them. Lately, municipalities and cities have been in charge of regional roads, for taking over homes of health, paying for additional workers, if necessary, rebuilding the infirmary, buying equipment, buying cars, assistance to the MUP, or reconstruction of buildings, the MUP, purchase of equipment and cars for the MUP, assistance to firefighters, fighting for elemental accidents, in terms of anti-building missiles. It has to be taken care of the renovation of schools and kindergartens, and if a local self-government wants to work, so I think local self-governments are left to themselves, that they have no means at all, and that we have to take care of that, if we give them any commitments, then we have to give them some resources to make it happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30396	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30397	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, but above all, Serbian citizens, the most unfair thing is when an incompetent government shifts its burden of incompetence to the shoulders, first local self-government, and then to the burden of citizens. The citizens feel it right away. I have tried here to protect a profession that is threatened by the new measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is about educational workers. You with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and here are the ones who get me to ask them, do you know who will be in charge, you who know everything and who you so bravely throw at me, I ask you, for paying the jubilee rewards? It doesn't interest you, 7%, it's not a 7% jubilee prize, it's your election result. Jubilee awards will be paid by local self-governments, and where do you think they will pay for local self-government, when local self-government should maintain regional roads and local roads, which was not in their jurisdiction, and now you have loaded them, so they must determine whether to clean the snow until Jastrepec, or whether to pay the Jubilee Awards to teachers working under Jastrepac. Of those two jobs you will have no answer about then you will have an answer that is the fault of the evil DS that prevented you from doing your job properly and then you will be filling up the tabloids and party messages and party bulletins with various imaginary affairs, and educational workers will be left without their cash prizes. I've been an MP for the seventh year, and since that period, the DS has had responsibility for managing this country for five years. Always the educators were dissatisfied with the speed of payment of jubilee awards, and every protest of educational workers ended before the Serbian Parliament demanding that their jubilee awards be paid regularly. After a provision like this, it won't be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30398	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30399	Mr. President, Article 17(1) says the fee for the work of members of the commission and various temporary or permanent working bodies will not increase in 2014. While Article 2 already states that state authorities and public enterprises will certainly give their suggestions whether these working bodies and whether these commissions should exist and how much their compensation should be. In paragraph 3, you say that the competent authorities will be obliged to pass by 30 June 2014 a law on the level of compensation for all these commissions, working bodies and criteria on which their compensation will be determined. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed an amendment, namely to delete the position of the 2nd member, because if the competent authorities will pass a law on which to determine these fees and criteria for those fees, then it is unnecessary for this position to stand. But you say it's important for this member to stay, because they together make a whole. However, we now ask ourselves, and we know for ourselves that big money flows away from these working bodies, commissions, diverse, there are hundreds of them from the Republic to the local level, and we certainly advocate that this law be passed as soon as possible, perhaps before 30 June 2014, to save as much as possible by those items. You know what, first I ask the government if this applies first of all to these working bodies and commissions and to supervisory and boards? Has the Government, by law, abolished the boards of directors that we know of their obligations and when the appointments of directors and public enterprises are at stake? Did the government call a competition for directors of public enterprises? Have the boards, in any way, played their part in this regard? If he's not, who's responsible, if that's not there? After all, will public enterprises take action in case all of this is not fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30400	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to pay a little attention to this amendment, because it concerns all of us and, above all, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In an explanation, the government said in an explanation of the response to this submitted amendment that it had provided for a deadline by 30 June 2014 to provide for payment of some fees. I asked the amendment to be January 15th, 2014. Since you haven't read my amendment, not even my explanation, I'll explain it to you, I'll try to influence my consciousness, to wake up one Vladimir Cvian in each of you and explain to you why you need to accept this amendment of mine. So on June 30, 2014, this government will certainly not sit in this system. On January 15th, after all these affairs and scandals, the government must fall. The citizens of Serbia cannot be the hostages of your incompetence, your insatiable desires for an even greater power, and when that unsatisfactory desire for authority finally overcomes you, when it defeats the laziness and looseness in you, then it is difficult for the state register and the state register. I appeal to you from the SPS, if you really think that with 25 MPs you can have the Prime Minister, drink one cup of aflatoxin milk, refresh yourself with one banana, and slowly go to sleep and make sure that Ivica doesn't wake up the marica, make sure that everything is allowed in the battle for power and that the election campaign has already begun, that your coalition partners from the SNS don't believe in you. So vote in favour of this amendment, that this deadline is respected by 15 January 2014, because after that we are in an election campaign and we will no longer see each other in this meeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30402	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30403	Injury. 106th and 107th. Dear colleague Milivojevic, we listen to you these days, and he listens to you and the public...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30404	Please do not address the People's MP, as you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please contact me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30405	I'm talking to you, the MP group, just like he's talking to the prime minister. It is truly sad and sad to inform the public in this way and to criticize the Prime Minister in this way. Keep this up and everything you say and criticise like this, talks about you, talks about your ratings that is getting smaller and smaller. I don't understand so much concern and indifference. You've been in a situation. Your mouth is full of care for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. You were in power and we were with you, not to talk about it, because we need a lot of time. Our Prime Minister and our Socialists, together with the coalition partners, with the SNS, we are trapped to take a live fire in our hands and to slowly, not from the ideal, not from the perfect, from the necessary route for the future of Serbs in the space of Kosovo and Metohija and the future of their children. So stop it, because everything you do and everything you say you do is for your own good and for our own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30406	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30407	Art. 106, 107 and 109. I think we could seriously approach the budget debate. I just want, as part of it, to read to you a people's wisdom – nature has given us two eyes and two ears, and only one language, so that we can watch and listen more and speak less, because there is never enough wisdom to say, as much nonsense can be kept from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30408	National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 17a be added after article 17. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30409	The Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, has been telling the country's citizens for a month that the country is in an economic crisis and that we all need to tighten the belt and everyone is talking about savings, and when LDP submits an amendment that brings 30m euros in savings, such an amendment is rejected. So do we talk one thing and the other we want to work? Namely, our amendment refers to the fact that the cost of catering services, representations, gifts, broadcasting and printing in 2014 is limited to a maximum of 0.5% of revenues achieved in the first nine months of 2013. On two examples, I will show that a 30m-euro savings is really possible. What's the problem with being in law? It is true, in response to the government, that this could be the direction of the Ministry of Finance, which would go to local self-government, but there is no obstacle to it being in law. I come from Negotin Community. In the first nine months of this year, a million-and-a-half for gifts and drinks were spent in cafes in a three-and-a-half million building, and for television and broadcasting and printing, eight million and 300 thousand. That's a total of 13.5 million. If this amendment were accepted, the whole year would be 3.5 million. So, only in Negotin County would it save 10. In the neighbouring Zaječar municipality, that savings would be 30 million. In these two municipalities, the savings would be 350,000 euros, so when we multiply it by the number of local self-governments, with ministries, it is obvious that the savings would be more than 30m euros. I call upon all MPs, who really want to be saved, to accept this amendment, without the burden of saving falling on citizens alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30410	The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30411	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I apologize, there is no Mr. Minister, therefore, Article 19 reads – other users who use business space and movables, which are managed directly or indirectly by the users of the Republic of Serbia's budget, pay the costs incurred, the costs of current and investment maintenance, i.e. the lease in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the Government. Our amendment only refers to that we added one date, so the government until 01.01.2014. It is quite clear our intention to make it clear and transparent and whoever has space and mobile and immovable things, and issues them on the use of indirect or direct users of budgets and those who, i.e. those resources, i.e. space, or things used, have a completely clear relationship, and these relationships are based on fully clear criteria. These criteria must be known to those who will use all this since 01.01.2014, because then these relations are no longer clear and are not transparent. How would anyone know if he'd keep the leased space if he didn't know at what price, what conditions and all that? So we think it's very important that this criterion, this date, be, after all, known to each other. Now, the minister of reason tells us that the amendment does not accept because it takes a certain period of time to see it all. I cannot believe that the draft budgetor, or the Serbian government, does not already have clearly built criteria under which it operates in 2014. Excuse me, please, in two days it's the second half of December, and you don't have clear criteria based on which the tenants will be able to use space or other resources. So it's unserious, it can't be done by one legal state and it can't be done by one government. That's why I find it much smarter to adopt my amendment and force the administration to do this part of the business with public criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30412	Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30413	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment discusses fulfilling the Serbian Parliament's control role. We have suggested that a report be submitted to the National Assembly on projects financed by the National Investment Plan. I really think that this is a good amendment and that we should consider fulfilling this very control role of the National Assembly. The National Investment Plan was a good way to invest state funds in capital projects, but certainly what we lacked, it is a report on the implementation of these projects and it is said to be delivered to the Ministry of Finance, Government, etc. But in any case, we in the opposition don't have the ability to see these reports, for example. on the implementation of projects financed by the NIP. Also, what we heard today, for example. from Mr. Pastor, about the theater project in Subotica, we have different cases, e.g. The tours around Uzic, to Baja's Garden, where the projects begin. Data are initial funds, and that's over in that round of NIP funds. Then those who give money for these funds, they don't have any for these projects. They have absolutely no idea how this project is going to end, whether it can be brought to an end. I really think that's bad. In fact, the NIP itself and the idea itself was not like that, but the idea was to generate new jobs, employment, that the construction industry of domestic employment, to improve the economy through the construction of infrastructure, above all, to invest and thus stimulate the development of tourism and agriculture, I said, and the construction industry and traffic, etc. It's very important, and we need to think about it. That's why we need to get reports, or the National Assembly should get reports on the implemented projects of the NIP, because it's an idea that maybe after a while has been sprayed and didn't give the best results in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30414	Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Marko Milutinovic. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30415	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I am truly sorry that I cannot speak to the Minister personally, because I wanted to appeal to him once again to consider and accept this amendment for its importance. We have submitted this amendment asking that the regulation governing the financing of public services be adopted by 01.01.2014. Why do we think it's extremely important? The adoption of public service law has been announced for many years, and here it is not yet brought. We know that national television is in a very difficult financial situation. This reflects the quality of the programme that we are looking at, the school, documentary, scientific, cultural, because national television has no means to produce new programs and the amount of this new programme that is produced is not good quality, because our national television has no means. The importance of every national television station is extremely large. National television is required to produce a quality program, to promote and protect the cultural values of a nation. I will repeat again, Minister, please consider this amendment. You explained that the deadline that we gave to adopt the rules for the adoption of this law was unreal in 01.01.2014. We invite you to tell us what is the shortest real deadline, to put it into this law. We have the opportunity to do so through the board and really get this matter resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30416	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30417	The Ministry of Finance is not proposing this law, but from my talks with the Minister of Culture and Information, I believe it is planned to be within and before 01.01. But we've predicted a mechanism by which if it doesn't happen, this can still be executed, the budget, as it should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30418	The word has a People's MP, the Soul of Morchev, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30419	I would ask you, dear ministers, to define through the board this member of the law that the regulation governing public service financing will be regulated, to define exactly how long it can be done. This has been talked about for many years. This problem hasn't been solved in years. It's not a waste, and it's very important that we predict it in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30420	The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted to the 28th amendment. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30421	My amendment applies to the same member, with what I'd say I support an amendment from an DSS colleague. I'm exactly the same as the public service and the state they're in. But my amendment refers to the second part, the part that if the funds are intended for public services in the next year don't spend, they will return to reserves. The fact is that the Budgetary System Act provides for the return of funds unused into the budget reserve, but also has a certain coefficient, i.e. the percentage in which these funds can be recovered. What I've put the amendment on is exactly this part, where it's said that beyond the Budgetary System Act, it's not taking care of Article 61. The budget system law and 69, because we need to look at the reserve from both aspects. That's 26 billion dinars in my account. If it's not enough for the reserves together and we're still looking, another exception, that these funds don't even go into that limit. Why am I against breaking the Budgetary System Act this way? Otherwise, I'm against breaking any law, but this law to make an exception, because we all know that when we form a budget reserve, the government decides on a budget reserve, it doesn't decide parliament. So these funds aren't used transparently. They're used by special government programs. Parliament has no control over these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30422	The 32nd amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jokovic and Rajko Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Verica Kalanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Susan Grubjesic, Ana Novkovic and Jelena Travar Miljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30423	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this amendment to the U.S.S. wants to correct the injustice, because you gave about 830 million dinars for transfers to municipalities in Vojvodina less than last year. You haven't been in Serbia in a long time. I would take the opportunity to invite you to go around Vojvodina for a little while, because you'd run into cities and villages without water lines and sewers, the lack of kindergartens, schools that only work with boards and chalk. You'd have a chance to see what kind of hospitals the people of Vojvodina are being treated in. Here, I invite you to come to the Kovin municipality where I live. That's not far, about 50km from here, from Belgrade. You will arrive along the road to the village of Bavanište, which has about 7,000 inhabitants. There's no water and sewers. You will see that up to two villages, 50km from Belgrade, there is no asphalt road at all, and that in two villages people have to buy drinking water, because the water they have is not at all for drink. The Vojvodina has already recorded a decline in economic growth, and with this attitude towards the municipalities of Vojvodina, it will only be backward. As this budget debate goes on, I am increasingly concerned, because we see that this is the budget of dismissal, the budget of the investors' drive, the budget of poverty, and now we see that this is also the budget that deprives municipalities of development. The United Regions of Serbia have told you where the money is, as Minister Radulovic has given 20 billion to fund the failed giants and said it will rebirth us. I'm just afraid he dragged all of Serbia into a dangerous experiment that we don't know how it's going to end, and he said so himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30424	The 32nd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Nikola Jovanovic and Vladimir Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Nikola Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30425	Dear President, Mr. Minister, the draft budget for 2014 instead of the Pojata highway – Preljina, which has been announced with one pomp, we have a large amount of money to be taken away from municipalities in Pomoravlje. The coast is a densely populated area, where about 500,000 people live in the territory from Poiat to Cačka. In this area we have twenty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs and, practically, there is one great connection and very developed traffic on a very bad path. This highway would be connected by Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljevo and Čačak and would have a very significant impact on the development of the economy and on the foreign investment. Unfortunately, instead of this law, or the construction of the highway, we have a new budget that reduces the transfer of 131.410,000 dinars, which significantly disrupts the further development of this part of Serbia. This amendment has been submitted in order to comply with the amendment to Article 7. The draft budget law, proposed by my colleague Vladimir Ilic and I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30426	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sanja Jeftic Brankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Sanja Jeftic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30427	Thank you. Dear President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment has not been submitted with the aim of devasting the City of Leskovac, or any other city in Serbia, but to explain in a clear way how the funds from the budget for the financing of local self-government units have been allocated. This amendment was rejected by the government on the grounds that only one criterion, i.e. the population criterion, would be taken into account by its acceptance. I will conditionally agree with you and, behold, I risk then applying the second criterion provided for by the Law on the financing of local self-government, which is the degree of development. In that sense, I can say that, on that basis, all the other municipalities and cities that have a lower level of development than the City of Nis would be in front of the City of Nis on that matter. I don't mind, it means that Leskovac and Prokuplje and any other city would be in front of the City of Nis, but then it would mean that the City of Novi Sad would be behind, not that there would be an estimated 920 million, as was done in this draft Budget Law. This is obviously about the arbitrary application of the criteria and I really ask you to explain to me how you came to this distribution of non-purposes. If we consider that the City of Nis is in a very bad position at the moment and we have already talked about it in this Assembly for a few days, let's say, yesterday was a debate on how moving the railway is not the government's priority, how every year we struggle to raise certain funds from the budget for maintaining cultural events, financing public service in Nis has been questioned, until this applies to Vojvodina and Belgrade. Furthermore, the milk quality testing laboratory, i.e. the means for this laboratory, are not foreseen by the budget for the City of Nis, and for Belgrade and Novi Sad they are. Finally, one of the important things that I've been talking about for several months is the airport, i.e. that the agreement with Etyhad did not actually foresee co-operation in the sense that the airport also led to a certain level. It seems to me that in this case you've played interesting geography, so perhaps you've overlooked the location of the City of Nis, or a three-letter city in southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30428	By amendment, MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Minister, I think my colleague Jefic's intention is extremely incorrect towards the Leskovec target. First of all, I have to say I'm a student of the Nish City and the Nish citizens in the first place. I have family members there. I also have friends, relatives, and I know what kind of problems they face. However, it is incorrect to peek into someone else's wallet, and even more to grip from that wallet, especially if we are neighbors. Between Leskovec and Nis is 45 kilometers. The town of Leskovac is the fifth city in Serbia. There are 165 thousand inhabitants and 144 settlements. I know that these 33 billion, which are intended for non-purpose transfer, may be misaligned, but we think that these funds that are defined for the City of Leskovac and how they belong to the citizens of Leskovac. I suppose all well-intentioned people will vote against this amendment. To be honest, I'll be against this amendment, too, because we haven't found any correct argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30430	Replica, MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30431	Dear Mr. Paicic, I fully understand. I'd be acting the same way if it was my town. It's your legitimate right, and that's exactly why I'm acting the way I do. I believe you were prepared to answer my question, so you did not listen to what I said in the explanation of the amendment. If it were, you'd modify your exposure. I said very nicely that the problem with the funds that are foreseen by the budget is the way these funds are distributed. I really don't mind that Leskovac, or Prokuplje, Žitorajje or any other city getting more funding if the criteria provided for by the Law on the financing of local self-government are applied. You didn't get the point. Read the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30432	Replica, MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30433	And as I understand the point, Mrs. Jefic. However, I must tell you that I am surprised by this amendment of yours and the intention that you could take, let's say, the funds from the citizens of Belgrade, which have the most resources. They make one bridge of a billion dinars. Why didn't you take it from them? Why didn't you take from 147 agencies that could, for the sake of the works of their work, be reduced to 30? These are the funds you could have identified for the City of Nis. Why, for example, did you not take funds from many NGOs? There are 2.5m euros for NGOs on the Justice Ministry alone. So you could coordinate all these things and define the funds for the City of Nis, not kidnap the poor Leskovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30434	The word is Mrs. Jefic Brankovic and we will end the replicas here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30435	I'll do it again. I agree with you, everyone fights for their city in a way that suits him. This is my way of fighting for my Nis. I have the support of my colleagues from Nis. Legally, it's the right thing to do. I hope we still have good neighbourly relations. How who and how will fight for the means for his city will be his right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30436	The 32nd Amendment with corrections was brought together by MPs Jovana Joksimovic, Balša Bozovic and Bozidar Djelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Sasa Milenić and Slavica Saveljic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30437	Thank you. During the exposé, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic made numerous promises. One of them was that they would especially advocate balanced regional development. Unfortunately, the budget we have received shows a completely different definition and a different policy and policy in which the government evenly balances us with underdevelopment. Of 145, nearly 70 municipalities have reduced transfer funds and total transfer funds that will receive all local self-governments are only three times less than the interest we need to give for unpaid expensive loans. Only Shumadi in 2014 will have fewer 203 million transfer funds, the south of Serbia, which is to be among the priorities, unfortunately loses more than 366 million, Vojvodina 827, Pomoravlje 131, and devastated areas of as many as 157 million dinars. Kragujevac as the centre of Šumadija this year, as well as the devastated areas will have less than 157m dinars, which means that according to the population, each Kragujevcanin will be valued monthly by 1.77 euros, or 209 dinars, or around 2,500 dinars per year. Only a few years ago, Kragujevac had more than 10m euros in transfer funds, in particular 10m and 190, and it was given slightly over three million and seven hundred, so three times less transfers and three times more obligations that the central government transferred to local communities. There is no policy like this, let alone even regional development, even less equal opportunities for different parts of the country. If Kragujevac should and should be the engine of the development of the Forest, and in that it should be followed by Batocina, Lapovo, Topola and Arangelovac, then it is necessary that the transfer funds be returned at least to last year's level.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30438	Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Teodora Vlahovic. The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30439	By amendment to Article 32, I proposed that additional funds be allocated to certain municipalities, i.e. 88 municipalities in all of Serbia, given that the funds for next year have been drastically reduced, compared to this year for some municipalities even, say, Pančevo 71%, Požarec 43%, etc. So these are huge reductions and the answer says that municipalities are in surplus, and only the republican budget in deficit. However, there is no appropriate criterion, because the Panchevo municipality, for example, because it is the most damaged in this part, so take it as an example, it has exceptional problems, and when it comes to air pollution, etc., so I doubt that with so little resources to be allocated to it, as well as what we know is a reduced income tax which is the same income of municipalities and cities, that the cash register with budgets is becoming harder and harder to fill, i.e. not filled with adequate dynamics. The town of Pančevo and other municipalities for which I have proposed an increase in funds will be damaged and will not be able to perform their basic functions either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30440	The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Konstantin Samofalov and Milomir Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic and Petar Petkovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment and rejected amendments pursuant to Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure cannot be discussed and are not voted on. The 32nd amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30441	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the case of this member and this amendment we've had a chance to see what Serbia has become, a poor country, where we in parliament as in the arena are fighting, you've seen the best in the case of my esteemed colleague from the DSS and an independent MP, where everyone fights in fact for his city. Maybe a fight like this would be inappropriate under other circumstances. Maybe a fight like this wouldn't have been necessary if you had heard so let's say you accepted that amendment of mine to cut those unnecessary expenditures to mark World War I of 680 million dinars. I come from Kruševac, the respected Krushevians are promised you a highway, all of us. He is promised a highway and to the citizens of Trstenik and Vrnjaka Banja and Cačka. No area in Serbia has been devastated in the past 20 years as a stream of western Morava. It was not in vain that St. Bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic said when he came to Trstenik in Ljubostinj - that the valley of West Morava was blessed. Unfortunately, this blessed valley of West Morava remains without significant financial resources every year, since the government's mandate, there have been fewer and fewer funds, my distinguished counterpart Nikola Jovanovic of Triestenik spoke of. Unfortunately, we're getting some other things that we totally need, like the nickel research, so the church is being built in Bajchetin, and the cemetery in Triestenik. We don't need that. We need money to run our region. How do we start our region? And since there will be no money, then you will increase our local municipal taxes and taxes and again the burden of an incompetent government will be paid by citizens of Serbia, this time by Kruševac. As Kruševljanin, I cannot keep my mouth shut to go over it and I urge you to raise significant financial resources, we have big problems with "14 October", with "Zupa", with "Trala" and we need the money, rather than Minister Sasa Radulovic, to lecture the director "14". October," as it should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30442	The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic, Nebojsa Zelenović and Zlatko Dragoljevic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment and rejected amendments pursuant to Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure, I can't be the subject of a debate and I can't vote on them. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 32nd amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment and rejected amendments pursuant to Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure, I can't be the subject of a debate and I can't vote on them. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Dr Nenad Popovic and Petar Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zelenovic, I have you registered in the system. Do you want to follow this amendment, since this is an amendment to Article 33. Free Samardzic, Dr Nenad Popovic and Peter Petkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30443	My remarks refer to Article 32, in fact to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which rejected the amendment. We noticed the correction, obviously she didn't pass, but I wanted to say a few words that refer to Article 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30444	I can't let us have a debate about an amendment that's been rejected. This amendment is not under discussion. You can talk about the amendment to Article 33. (People's MPs are getting out of place: Defend this amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30445	Okay. So, what's the key thing and what's the most important thing? In the very realization of non-intentional transfers that go to local self-government, the key thing is that all local self-governments are generally denied 30% on the name of the subsidy. This means a difficult life in all local self-government in the next 2014, which means there is no reason for local self-government to hope that there will be still some opportunities for development in 2014. However, on the Finance Committee, we did not get an exact explanation of what the nature of the subsidy itself is, and why is it that everyone is equal when not all the same in the Republic of Serbia? For this reason, we see that those who have done well or have worked hard to do well during this earlier period are being punished in some way. So I don't see how we're gonna be able to motivate people to keep doing good? I'll give you a specific example. In 2003, in the town of Šapcu from which I came, you had 100 acres of strawberry. With one quality agricultural policy that invested in digging deep wells and irrigation we managed to lift it to 1,200 hectares under strawberries in 10 years. Now a thousand-and-a-half families in Šapec and the surrounding area are attracted by the production of strawberries. Three thousand people have been hired this way. Where are you going to make a better example of how to invest wisely in local self-government? When you cut subsidies by 30%, you didn't just cut donations to public enterprises, you cut investments to local self-government. You'll have roads full of holes. You'll have unfinished kindergartens, unfinished schools. I note that there are 82 school facilities in Šapac, you have kindergartens, you have hospitals in 28 villages, how we will support it, and who will pay for it when you have 30% less resources, and you have tried to work responsibly and to lead politics equally towards all citizens. So I think that the way the transfer to local self-government units is determined is not good and that it has to be entered into a deeper analysis of the imports with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30446	Mr. Gojkovic, did you want a word after the previous amendment or by this, Slobodan Samardzic, Dr. Nenad Popovic and Peter Petkovic? (Zika Gojkovic, from the post: The amendment Mr Zelenovic spoke of. ) He talked about the amendment to Article 33, so he linked the part to the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and some other things related to the Sabac, very skillfully. Tell me, do you want to follow that amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30447	I won't be wasting much time since the debate has already stalled. I just wanted to say that the MPs from the parliamentary group led by Mr. Dusan Petrovic spoke several times about an issue that is extremely important, and which our parliamentary group will support. I'm just going to say that the transfer of funds to local self-government is something that is extremely important that in this budget perhaps needed a little more attention. I am sure that in the coming years at the beginning, we will probably have a very easy budget rebalance and major problems when it comes to local self-government and if something does not change in this regard. I just wanted to say that, of course, we will support these amendments that were just spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30448	The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic to article 33. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30449	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that there are so few Members of the ruling majority you probably went to a meeting with Vladimir Cvian, it's legitimate law. But I will, for the sake of you, try to wake up in each and every one of you Vladimir Cvian and read you what Article 33 says. He says, "The tasks for carrying out expenditure on the territory of the AP of Kosovo and the Metohija financed by the Republic of Serbia's budget are jointly issued by a minister whose division has provided funds for these expenditures, and by a minister without portfolio determined to run the Office for Kosovo and Metohija." My amendment was to delete these words from this article: "The minister without portfolio in charge of Kosovo and Metohija". You know, for what? Perhaps you have forgotten the words of your Vice-President of the Party and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, that one minister who does not work in Serbia's interest and who is abroad representing someone else's interests is sitting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm convinced, since I asked the question, and I didn't get an answer as to whether she meant Mr. Alexander Vulin, after everything that's happened with Kosovo and Metohija, I'm absolutely convinced that she meant Alexander Vulin. And that is why I find it unnecessary for the taxpayers' money to be decided by a man who does not work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since I didn't get that answer, the basic doubt stands. I think it is inappropriate to give taxpayers money to Minister Alexander Vulin, because Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, his government colleague, says he is not working in the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens. We just heard you all pull chestnuts out of some fire together. All I see in your hands is the mechs you're throwing around that fire. While the DS is here, and thank God and some other MPs, there will always be a voice of reason to vote against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30450	Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30451	Whether there are such ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia or not, they will define and decide the next elections and support the government will receive in the elections. But what definitely stands -- there was one mayor in Serbia, the largest city in Serbia, who, during the ministry and during the mayor's term of office, did not work in the interests of the city he ran, did not work in the interests of Belgrade and Belgrade, but worked only in the interest of the company that was owned by him, so it was a little bit public, so he also praised the media that Dragan Gilas was rich and wealthy, so he posted the APR documentation on how he was from a small and anonymous company, at the time he was small and anonymous, and then when he became head of the president's office, so the minister, so the mayor, as he reached up to six billion dinars a year. That's what's confirmed. We here listen to insinuations, theatres, calls for something that today will receive the support of over 130 MPs in this House. We listen to the poor thing and we listen to regrets, but not regretting the citizens of Serbia, there's no reason. We're hearing regrets of past times, of boastful authority, of the possibility that the government and the mechanisms of government are being used for personal gain. Now, that's where we're at and we're listening to it at the time of each amendment, and I ask the citizens of Serbia, please, and your fellow respected colleagues, do, listen to every amendment, every amendment is "a copy of our page". Mr. President, if someone has nothing to say better than not to get up and say anything, they're going to spin one sentence a million times, and this thing about mayor Belgrade is a proven thing, and it doesn't need to be insinuated.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30452	Mr. Stevic, you're reporting for the amendment, but then first Mr. Milivojevic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30453	Dear President of the National Assembly, I regret very much that Mr Babic speaks of Nebojsa Covic in this way. If he's such a bad man, if he's made so much money through the railroad, then what did you choose to do in the Interim Administration? I am absolutely sure, as Zorana Mihajlovic thought of Alexander Vulin, that you were now thinking of Nebojsa Covic. Now I understand the sentence of Alexander Vukic – we would take Belgrade, but we have no personnel. As he acknowledged at the time that there are no personnel for Belgrade, we now see that you have no personnel for Serbia and that you have no answers to these painful economic questions that everything you promised Serbian citizens has turned into a big soap balloon that every day a bit cracks Serbia's cities and each of these soap balloons is a small Vladimir Cvian, who will eventually become one great Vladimir Cvian, until you are all completely cracked into steam pieces. I'm not afraid at all of those big ratings of yours on public opinion research. That's how it was in 1997. How many percent did you have with a badge and then end up a disaster by RS and economic and material and territorial. Serbia has not yet recovered from the greatest material, territorial destruction, from economic collapse and human casualties during your last term when you also pumped your ratings with bubbles. Whenever Aleksandra Vukic's rating jumps 2% of Serbia's standards drop 10%, Mr. Babic. You should always keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30454	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30455	Whenever Alexander Vukic jumps a 2% rating to those in Operation Thunder, all those from political, tycoon, criminal lobbies who would like to stop Serbia die. He's sick of all those who've wronged the law, who've greased their fingers at the time of privatisation for the past 12 years. Get sick of them. Serbian citizens are relieved because there is justice in RS. Speaking of that soapy bubble that shoots, did he break up perhaps in Apatino, in Srbobran, in Kovin, in Zajecar, in Zrenjanin? Is that where he shot? What did the citizens of these municipalities and cities say? We want to change, we don't want to change you. We're leaving you below census for everything you've done in the last 12 years. You can call me - a previous period, but if you'd done well, you'd be boasting. We wouldn't be in this situation. What do we do now? It's all this government's fault for a year and a half? It can't be like that. Let's go out and ask the citizens. Are you going to talk to that tone on Monday? Would you like to go with me now to a nice place here in Belgrade, to a nice Belgrade municipality so we can see what these citizens are going to say about you, what they think of the policy conducted by SNS and Aleksandar Vukic. I admit, there are those people in Serbia who have been up for the last year and a half. There are those people who have privatised the state, who have been above the state, who have benefited from the resources of the state, to which you have kept quiet, to whom you have closed your eyes. They're worse off, but Serbian citizens are better off.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30456	According to the Rules of Procedure, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30457	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I think you have injured Article 107, because at this session, which is said to remind you of all the Members of the People's Parliament, about the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the most important law in the state of Serbia for 2014 and I really ask you to get back to the agenda point. I don't think it's right that last night, you're witnesses, Mr. President, a few of us just sat here till midnight and talked about the budget, and some MPs come in, shake out what they have to say about the government, about who, what, how it leads and praises their leaders, etc. which I do not think is really correct for us who are very responsible and very carefully preparing for these amendments, to talk about the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the amendments that we have prepared. I really don't think many of these people who spoke were here last night. Here are the citizens of Serbia, who are leading you, what they are talking about, not the budget, what they should be talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30458	In principle, I agree with you, that we need to talk about daily work, and I think that's why I just insisted last night that we work so long, that we can get there and achieve everything we have, because if we didn't, who knows when to finish the debate that's going on, I just can't guess what we're talking about at all. But as you can see, I'm trying to allow everyone to say in one tolerated spirit. Political sparks and, of course, the need for political parties to, from time to time, make a discourse and talk a little bit about everything that makes politics, I think it's bearable. However, at this point I agree with you, and it is much better to discuss the agenda. We still have, I think, a dozen amendments, which is important. These people who wrote the amendments have worked hard and I'm glad they can, especially since the minister has been very patient for two days, full of two days sitting and listening, of course, to respect his time and time for everyone else. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Stefanovic, I would close the circle of replicas because twice Mr. Milivojevic caused the replica, twice Mr. Babic returned, it's about a fair, correct relationship. I think you agree with me to move on. Mr. Stevic, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30459	Mr. President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I really don't understand the meaning of the amendments of my colleagues, for the simple reason and for the sake of informing the public, it's not the funds of the Minister without portfolio, Alexander Vulin, it's not his personal property, it's the funds of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia and the KIM Office, and from the circus 4.8 billion that are defined for next year, which is the increase from this year, for Serbs in the area of KIM over 550 million, there are 5300 local self-government workers, and it's a transfer of funds from a higher level to a lower level and it has certain investments and projects in the area of infrastructure and protection of cultural and historical goods in the area of KIM, so I don't see the meaning of this amendment and I can't accept this amendment. Hawla.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30460	Replica, Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30461	Your Honor, Mr. President, there's obviously one thing that doesn't understand my discussion. I'm absolutely for kim to be allocated funds. I don't know how much of this budget will be allocated to the functioning of the KIM judiciary, because the Justice Minister, Nikola Selakovic, has assured us that these courts will continue to exist. Today we hear some different voices from Brussels. We're hearing some other messages today. That is why I have great doubt, because Alexander Vulin said – to me the Brussels Agreement is a dead letter on paper. At the same time, Aleksandar Vukic said – our priority is European integration. Apparently in that opposite of two sexes, I don't trust either of them, the citizens of KIM even more. We just can't trust people who talk to each other today, tomorrow, and actually work third. That's why I think some people should be eliminated and expelled from deciding on taxpayers' money when it comes to kiM. I didn't say it was supposed to be a minister, 8%, asking for 8% for Chinese companies. I said it should be 8% commission from business with Chinese companies. I said it was supposed to be a minister, which I have a reasonable doubt is not working in the interest of third-country nationals. That's why I think some people should be eliminated and expelled from deciding on taxpayers' money when it comes to kiM. I didn't say it was supposed to be a minister, 8%, asking for 8% for Chinese companies. I said it should be 8% commission from business with Chinese companies. I said it was supposed to be a minister, which I have reason to suspect is not working in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There's a very strange foreign policy going on here. Alexander Vukic's promise in New York in English, which Tomislav Nikolic does not know how to translate into Russian in the Kremlin, nor does Alexander Vulin know how to translate into Serbian when he comes to Mitrovica. In that context, I believe he is not up to the decision-making business of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30462	Zvonimir Stevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30463	Persistently on the insistence, Mr. Chairman, a colleague who speaks very pragmaticly about the debate on amendments, a persistent colleague in today's debate is talking about the political work. I want to tell him about it. Don't waste it here, talk about it. The KIM people were defined and he said hiss in the local elections and gave full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and state leadership. For you translated – you played the game, you lost the game, and now you need time to prepare the team, and as you work, I don't see the team in due time. You're talking about the political part about the judiciary, the judiciary is the second item in the budget. I am talking about the funds related to Amendment 33 and the allocation of 4.8 billion, which is encouragement and support, not to mention the insinuations of those who were to boycott the election, that they would stop financing KIM, that they would stop institutions on 4 November. The state of Serbia and this government continue funding in both this and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30464	Mr. Milivojevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30465	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I'm undermining one misunderstanding again. I think more money should be given to our countrymen on KIM, even more. For example, all this money that is scheduled to celebrate World War I anniversary should be given to them, because they live on KIM, as the direct descendants of those heroes from World War I, who have also won that Kosovo country thanks to their heroism, their efforts. He needs all the money he has in excess to give to those Serbs who are in the most difficult place right now. I am not going to ask you to ask you a painful question, to answer me – how many, not in percentages, but in numbers, have citizens come out in the Kosovo-Methochial elections? You say -- so many percent came out, you don't say -- so many thousands of people came out. To advance these real figures, what is this support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia by citizens living in KIM, how many people are really people who trust the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and how many people believe that life is what they live every day in a direct neighborhood with the commanders of a terrorist organisation, such as living Serbs in Vitina, as do Serbs in those places and enclaves where they are left to live. I'm undermining again - why should Alexander Vulin decide where to get who and how much money? Why is he in an election campaign to open a shirt factory? The whole factory doesn't have to be made to change his black shirt. He can have one shirt, two, three. I do not believe in his good intentions, when it comes to Alexander Vulin, especially because I am horrified by the sentence Zorana Mihajlovic – there is a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia who does not work in the interests of Serbian citizens. Then they ask the Hansel of Dacic, who is this man? He says, "I can't read her mind." Read the diplomatic mail. (President: Time. There's a list of who this man is. Then perhaps I would turn my mind and vote in favour of this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course I'm going to have a political debate here, because the budget is the highest political act that we will cross the spear in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30466	Mr. Stevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30467	I just want to remind you, this pledge of you and your concern about the Serbs in the KIM area, and I want to ask you, since we worked together in the previous term and we were good to you, we as the SPS and the Prime Minister, and you're pushing for greater investment and greater allocation of funds, to ask you -- why in the last three years our government has returned 300 million to the budget, and you haven't defined the funds that are intended for KIM? That's a fact. I want to meet you, I don't have that data right now, but I want to tell you, since I'm from Kosovo and Metohija and I live in Gracanica with my family, that there's no memory of Serb turnout from Kosovo and Metohija in any election, at local level or republican level, for the state of Serbia. Somewhere over 40,000 Serbs. Now the percentages don't match you. So 54% got a mayoral candidate in Gracanica, not to mention New Brdo, Ranilug, Partesh and Brezovica. I tell you again, the people have given unreserved support to the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the data is for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30468	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30469	I would join Mr. Stevic's stances and I would condemn, as I am sure that the majority of Serbian citizens also condemn this attitude and the things that are being presented for the amendments, and security is being threatened, stability is being threatened, the desire of our society is being threatened that we no longer have frozen conflicts, the desire to provide people living in Kosovo and Metohija with one safe life, which is fundamental human value. For some of us in this hall, it bothers us, unfortunately, that Alexander Vulin's pure heart, clean hands and pure cheeks are among the citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo and Metohija, who have understood, with all the challenges, the value of the Brussels Agreement. They're bothered by a man who's here and when it's hard and when it's good and when it's hard to explain and when it's good to be with his people. It bothers me, 'cause I guess it's a better time when nothing was done, when there was a chain saw in one hand, and there was some logs cut, and then the other hand, these bozos, they moved. I guess it's better to stand in place or walk around on that treadmill. They're always in town, and you're wasting your energy, you're wasting everything. It only bothers because it comes from another side. Just because some people who have received the support of Serbian citizens in both Kosovo and Metohija and other parts of Serbia are taking this country in the right way and because it remains blind and deaf to the support we receive from the world, to the support we receive from the citizens of Serbia. But better to resist the arrow of hatred, I guess that's how you get a political point. I guess you go to "Darrekt Media" and you get something straight there, and I guess that's good, that's the real thing. I think it pollutes the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30470	The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30471	Really incorrect. The thousandth time, no one defends, no one contests that the list of "Serbia", which you did not call DS, received the most votes. We supported the election of Serbs, as you know. No one wants Serbia to stand. No one wants Serbia to go back, except you and your government. So it's incorrect what you're saying. I know you were on secret missions at the time, not you personally, but Mr. Vulin and the other heroes of the obstruction of the Kosovo process and sat on those logs. I know that. What was I supposed to do? Are you saying you should have let Thaci take the crossing? Was that supposed to happen? Are you saying that the government was putting on those bozos? You've said that more than once, Mr. Granny. It's a very dangerous thesis. Go and say it in Mitrovica, and you'll hear what they have to say to you. They were putting it on. That lie, repeated a thousand times, is a big problem, because it's known how it ends. You got in a car you don't know how to get out of. It's not a problem of support. It's no problem budgeting, as you say. The state of Serbia must do so, but you are making these statements too soon. We haven't seen what it's gonna look like yet. We still don't see the Serb community. We all want the same good result. Don't say in advance what you don't know what it's going to look like. Don't talk in advance about the budget, when customs at Jarinj and Brnjak worked today, and you said it was a catastrophic mistake by the previous authorities. Turns out you made the deal. I don't think it's bad, I just think it should be said, nothing less than that. It's not right when such things are said while forgetting what you've been saying until recently. Not everyone in this country is suffering from amnesia. Don't talk about the company, please. I'm asking you one more time, don't talk about companies and snorkeling, it'll be too much of an interesting conversation, no one will notice the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30472	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30473	Threats again - don't mention me, otherwise... But, well, that's more about the kind of thing that's being used. Some have not seen Serbian citizens in the Kosovo and Metohija elections either, so these people still have the courage, wisdom and went to the polls, they have made a choice, I believe the right ones, won the elections and ran for the best people on the list "Serbia". It is unfortunate that even now, after the difficult part of the job, someone does not see that a Serb community will be formed. Is it the cheerleading of our society to stumble somewhere to accuse someone, wouldn't just someone else come to power, wouldn't someone else be a favorite again? That's bad. We must cheer for our society to move forward. Will it be Babic, Stefanovic? It's normal, it's life, it's change, it's exchangeability. It's the basis of democracy, as the citizens say. I don't have a problem with that and then when I was in opposition and now and then when I'll be in opposition again or I won't be in politics. You don't have to tie yourself to power. I think we need a fatal commitment to the improvement of our society, and I think that going to the elections was better, as I think the formation of a Serb community will be better, primarily for people living in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as for the rest of Serbia. It is not to look for challenges and obstacles and stumble, but to say – people, do you need help, do you work well, it is a good way, and not – let us stumble you so that we can continue to run some race. Of that way of thinking, and that's why we as a society, as a state, have been going to the city, unfortunately, for more than 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30474	We've been on the same amendment for 40 minutes because you've been reporting in replicas. Not all MPs are obliged to listen to this kind of debate. On the 34th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Teodora Vlahović and Mr. Bozidar Djelic and together Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic, submitted the MPs. The word is Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30475	With this amendment to Article 34, my colleagues and I have proposed to delete a member that allows the state of Serbia to be additionally in debt of 300m euros. And last year, I had an amendment to the budget relating to this amount, with the fact that I didn't propose to delete it, but to reduce it, which is your predecessor, the minister, and he respected, as well as an explanation. Why have we defined ourselves this time to suggest that it be deleted? For the simple reason we believe that there are enough grounds for Serbia to be in debt next year and that there is no need to give us the possibility of additional debt for 300m euros, given that our budget deficit is greater than 161 billion, that our total fiscal deficit is greater than 182 billion dinars. At the same time, we wanted to prevent from one side borrowing, given that in this budget and in the accompanying measures for this budget we have made it very difficult for our fellow citizens to live largely, because the taxes on basic life supplies have been increased, because the earnings have been reduced, because the lowest earnings and pensions are symbolically corrected, that life will be difficult enough and that it is not necessary to assign additional land.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30476	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30477	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we cannot support further borrowing beyond the plan this budget provides. We believe that 300m euros, which are foreseen for this additional borrowing, is too much and too much burden. We cannot even accept an explanation that the Government rejected our amendment, which speaks of some emergency circumstances or some emergency situations on the financial market. I don't know what you need more extraordinary circumstances than the fact that the public debt is about 20 billion euros, that you have such a high budget deficit, that the expenditures are huge, that the revenues are quite insecure? So we can't support this approach. It's simply one approach to continuity, you constantly overturn the burden of crisis on citizens and on local self-government. Because these 300m euros actually represent six budgets of the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government, which is two-thirds of the agricultural budget, which is a huge amount. What does that mean in real life? For example, citizens of Zrenjanin, here today someone mentioned that they are asking the citizens of Zrenjanin, Cesid asked them for research – how do you and your families live, and they responded like this – 35% said they live intolerably, and 56% said they live on average tolerable. So 90% live poor, or extreme poverty. If this is how citizens live in Zrenjanin, if they live in Pancheva, then how do they live in Piroth, Leskovec, Zajecar, Negotin, Boro, etc.? It's really a huge, huge number to add to this country's debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30478	Minister Krstic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30479	Just so we understand this is planned. We planned 200 million, otherwise the deficit wouldn't be 7.1%. This is what's below the line. Let's be very clear that this is a changed member of the 36th budget, where we have reduced the purpose of this borrowing to just the financial system with us. Otherwise, it's a bad practice, and we talked today about the Deposit Insurance Agency, I don't know if you've been present, but in a situation where we are currently after Agrobanka and the Vojvodina Development Banks, which have been recovered from there, it's a bad practice that you don't have, and it has proved particularly bad in the last five years of this global economic crisis, that you don't have a source of funding at least in a certain amount for the Deposit Insurance Agency or its equivalent. So these funds are predetermined, budgeted, included in 7.1%, 200 out of 300 million. I deeply believe, based on these first results we have, that this amount will be even smaller. So, just so it's clear what we're talking about. Thank you. (Donka Banovic, from the scene: give me a word to explain.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30480	You have no basis for replication. Mrs. Judita Popovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30481	Mr. Minister, we understand each other completely. But definitely in Serbia's policy, with this authority that took on this responsibility to lead this country, there is a lack of that key quality, which is precisely responsible for its actions. It's that we have a huge imbalance between expenditure and planned income, between life and virtual, which is presented and the real life that I've been talking about today. It's just that it's a really big problem that this country is not giving up on the wrong economic policy that has led us to the situation we're in today, and that's – homeless borrowing without creating a new value. So 400,000 people in Serbia are creating a new value. Over two million people are unemployed. What else do we have left than borrowing? Indebted and in this way, within the meaning of Article 34 of this Budget Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30482	According to the Rules of Procedure, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30483	Thank you. I really answered in time, and I can't stand the consequences now that the president of the assembly didn't see me answer the line. I had a basis for replication. This was the presentation of Mr. Zvonimir Stevic, who spoke about parties that urged the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija to boycott these local elections. The only parliamentary party in this hall that has been calling for very loud Serbs to stay away from the local elections announced by Atifete Jahjaga is the Democratic Party of Serbia. I did, and my deputies the DSS found themselves called. I do not see the need and the boldness at all to praise someone who is seriously concerned with politics by the fact that the local elections issued by Atifete Jahjaga were successful and, as the Serbs said, gave full support to this government's policy. It is in that people, who are ashamed of themselves. (President: Mrs. Donka, don't talk about it now.) I'm just explaining how I didn't get a chance to replicate. And in today's day, when it is known that very serious customs duties are being established at administrative crossings. The last few months have been working to completely separate and sacrifice 15% of the territory on the altar of European integration. (President: I understand. So I had a basis for replication. I guess now I've said something, and because of the citizens of Serbia, and not because of us here, we all know exactly what they do and what they promise and what they do today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30484	Thank you. You were present when the president chaired the assembly and literally said that you were not personally mentioned and that your party was not mentioned. The fact that you recognized each other, that's another problem. I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt, and you can ask in the voting day that the Assembly pleads. You won't. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30485	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not disputed anyone's right to any party...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30486	Mr. Stevic, you can't do that. You have to call a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30487	Art. 106th and 107th. I have not disputed anyone's right, any party, including the Democratic Party of Serbia, the right to boycott, but it is not true that only the Democratic Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30488	Mr. Stevic, please don't break the Rules of Procedure now. You can explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but don't lead to a replica of what Mrs. Donka said now or anyone else. You have the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to stick to it. I won't allow you a replica, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30489	The dignity of the Assembly has been injured, Art. 106th and 107th, and the lady made an insult and a lie, and she made one statement...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30490	I can't let you. We are coalition partners, but I can't let anyone do this. So the MP can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'll take the chair. You explain at what time I was chairing, what I contributed to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30491	Mr. Chairman, you didn't react when an esteemed colleague said what she was saying, so let me say what I mean. I say there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 106th and 107th, a violation of this assembly's dignity, and let me explain it. She's told a lie. I don't dispute the right of anyone's party, and neither does this party in parliament to...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30492	Please, Mr. Stevic, let's get this over with. I won't let you. (Zvonimir Stevic: I mentioned the name and last name. Don't argue. There's no reason. The Rules of Procedure are very clear here. The MP, well you know, has the right to say anything, conditionally speaking, not anything, but I want to speak figuratively in that sense. It is my duty to take care of it and to warn the MP in time to change the subject of the conversation, if she is offensive. I haven't found and seen these elements of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's get this over with. I can give you the right to declare in the voting day whether there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30493	I'm used to double arches. It's not right. I'm giving up on the Rules of Procedure. Since I've been mentioned by name and last name, I'm asking for the right to replication. How come I don't have a right when she mentioned my name and last name? [[President: You do not have the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30494	You have no right to a replica. (Zvonimir Stevic, from the place: I was mentioned by name and last name. Let's move on. The government has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladjan Dinkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 35th amendment, MPs Verica Kalanovic and together Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic submitted the same text. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30495	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, we have suggested that Article 35 be deleted for several reasons. I'll explain it orally to you now. Article 35 speaks of the government's policy on social contributions in 2014 as not changing. We believe that social policy was wrong and that it must change in 2014. Why? Social policy should be addressed to the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups. He should take care of families with children, families where no one is employed, nursing homes, especially in rural areas, pensioners with low pensions. Social policy defined by budget and new funding does not meet the basic needs. So, by what you've suggested, by these means, it doesn't satisfy their basic needs, and you've raised VAT on basic life supplies, you're collecting bread, milk, sugar, oil, medicines. So, these endangered categories can't handle it, they can't afford basic life supplies, you've raised the VAT and you're directly endangering them, and you haven't singled out the larger detachments to get them to deal with it. That's why we suggested erasing this article, because it doesn't mean anything as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30496	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30497	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have handed over, because of Serbian citizens, an amendment that says that in order to mitigate the consequences of the increased VAT government will form a special solid fund to help the most vulnerable categories of the population. I have a need, unfortunately I have little time, just two minutes, to explain to the citizens of Serbia what it means. Under the advanced SNS in Serbia, only prices are progressing, and Serbia is forwarding backwards. As Serbia advances forward, Aleksandra Vukic's rating jumps 2%, Serbia's standard drops 10%. What does that mean? That means, Serbian citizens, you'll get what you're not promised. They promised you 20% worth of electricity, and the electricity went up 11%. At the moment, most citizens of Serbia, who have failed to meet their obligations for electricity, are largely shutting down in the middle of the winter by a cable supplying electricity to their households. On the other hand, we had a situation where in Serbia citizens get an increase in VAT on milk, on medicines, on basic life supplies, on heating, on communals, and as Aleksandar Vukic said, it does not affect the oldest category of our population at all, because as pensioners do not buy drugs at all, they do not have bread and milk as their needs in the menu, they do not pay for communals, which do not have at all in their own cost. You have significantly damaged the standard of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because as you know pensions and salaries will grow at 1% per year, and inflation will be much higher. What does that mean for you on the Leader? When the citizens of Voždovac, when the citizens of Kostolac, when the citizens of Odžak, Kruševac, new bills, new tax taxes, new property tax bills, and where you have no place to pay, we have foreseen the formation of a solidarity fund from which we could at least ease the consequences of catastrophic economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30498	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's ask a question to the citizens. These 2% aren't popular measures. No one in the government of the Republic of Serbia would have introduced that measure unless it had to. Let's ask them a question -- is it better to increase prices by 2% of that value added tax than to make inflation in Serbia 10%? Let's ask them, what would they say? I'm talking about the inflation that was during the Mirko Cvetkovic government. I'm not talking about some fiction. No one in the SNS has promised to burn electricity, but that's why we've created a programme for the socially endangered population and for the relief of the payment of electricity and the subsidized price, which is why your previous government hasn't done. Where else can money be obtained for the Republic of Serbia's budget? Believe me, when the final judicial rulings begin to arrive for the Agrobank affair, for the "Vojvodine Development Bank" affair. Why didn't you ask your Prime Minister in Vojvodina that question? What about that bank? Once the judicial rulings arrive, we will have a far more balanced situation in the budget. So those who took it from Serbian citizens will have to put it back. That's the problem, which bothers some the most, not everyone in the DS, not everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30500	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30501	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have a question, as the Serbian citizens delegate me to ask you, will the funds taken from the funds, after the judicial verdicts, go to 8% of the commission that we hear, a minister is asking from the Chinese firm. I guess it would be a turn to see the light of day as a judicial verdict, so let's first see who it is and how much he took as a commission from Chinese companies, and we know that Chinese firms are doing a few billion-dollar deal. Just to remind you, during the DS mandate, 500m euros were taken from drug dealers and other people involved in organised crime in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the value of the drug seized, cocaine was seized a few tons. In your "Thunder" action, where all the major drug dealers had their own thunderbolt in the police, only 10 grams were seized in Lazarevec and if citizens of the Republic of Serbia are organised, there in Lazarevec, through the Association of the Holy Sava to discover drug dealers, and Aleksandar Vukic said it was the best action in the last 25 years and that drugs that could supply half of Mexico were seized. Then the UN organisation and its authority dealing with the assessment of the drug market came out and said the drug market is worth 180m euros in Serbia. I've never heard how much money you've seized in this action. I didn't hear it anywhere. As for all these affairs, Agrobanks and these, all respond to the criminal act. You have strong support in this, but the citizens of Serbia are a little sickened by this sad pathetic. You know, that -- here, we're fighting crime, we're suing criminals, and what the police tell them on the phone when, where, how much drugs to get away, they don't fight drug dealers. If you were really fighting a drug dealer, then we'd get information about how much money was seized in this action.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30502	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30503	A colleague of the DS obviously tells some fictions that he's the only one who knows. No one in Serbia has ever heard of these things, or seen, except him. It seems to me we don't see things with the same eyes or we don't look at the same things. So the problem is the SNS has a 180m-euro drug market. Where did that market come from? Was it created during the SNS government? You support the fight between Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia against organised crime, I don't mind, except you didn't lead it while you were in power? When you talk about corruption affairs, there's no cash register, there's no place, where you didn't, not personally, but people who represented DS from 2008 to 2012, you pushed your hand. You've even given state property, so now it's not 8% of your problem, it's going to be the next 5% problem, which you won't be able to skip when you jump with the stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30504	No more replicas. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30505	Here, since I don't have the right to a replica, I've predicted it a little bit, so I've been putting up with the amendments. Then in article 36, I predicted that this member would be deleted. It is necessary to delete the member because you want to transfer the burden of the crisis to the citizens, to transfer the burden of your incompetence to the citizens as well, and you plan to reduce your income to mandatory social security organisations. It is simply incomprehensible whether Serbian citizens really have to pay for your incompetence. Well, we barely charged ourselves during the '90s, when you made up the drug market and invented organized crime. During the 1990s, Serbian citizens, you had a police officer in a police uniform, where you could come to the counter, not take the money, but order the murder of political opponents, regardless of whether he was a journalist, an opposition, whoever he was and that murder was carried out by an officer with a police uniform, who had the mark of a special ops unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30506	You're off the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30507	I'm going back to killing the Serbian standard of 2013. I accept your statement that the situation in Serbia has been bad for 12 years, you said – it has been catastrophic in the last 12 years. Of those last 12, the worst was in 2012 and 2013 when you took over. It's a disaster. The economic disaster you have produced according to the standard of Serbian citizens should not be paid by citizens of Serbia out of their pockets. I said, your budget doesn't have a development component. You're making a man who's 50 kilos on a diet, and he's got to fight Tyson. It needs to be run, the development of its muscles, its muscle mass, the development of the Serbian economy, and then from the fund, the salary tax and the earnings to fill the budget, not to fill the budget by increasing the property tax by 80 to 100%. That's what Serbian citizens can't pay for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30508	Mr. Milivoevich, please stick to the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30509	I agree again with my colleague from the DS, the health insurance funds full of employees. But I don't understand, so much concern for employees now that you're an opposition. Where was she when unemployment jumped from 15% to 26% and you exercised power? You're talking about the crisis in Serbia. Can't you see that the further crisis has been stopped? You can't do the damage you've done to make it right overnight. We now make conditions for economic development. You're talking - there are no development components. Here, in 2013, a 50km highway was built on the Corridor. You haven't done it in four years, but that's why you've managed to owe the state. Looks like the commissions were a problem that's gone. You hired the state to take commissions. That's why we don't see the effects of your borrowing. It is the easiest to go out and say – hard to live in Serbia today. All right, but I saw your measurements that were to remove those consequences. They've caused more unemployment. Now there's no more increase in unemployment. Now we're looking to hire people. Criticise, I don't mind, but without traffic infrastructure, there's no development. You know that well. No one will bring a retro-material to Serbia with helicopters and them to drive the same goods as the final product. Don't open the story now. We're not going around the banks. It's only enough around the stock reserves. There's nothing more to be done, just a stock reserve and let's see where the commissions are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30510	Thank you. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, you have challenged, especially when you have spoken outside the agenda. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 37th amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30511	A member like this in the 37th was also present in previous budget laws. It provides that units of local authorities can plan a mass of payout funds by allowing the mass they paid in 2013 to increase by 2%. It would be good, Minister, if many local authorities had not received a large number of citizens in the past few months, i.e. workers, which on a specific basis, which indefinitely. You, Mr. Krstic, will not be able to apply the powers you have in this member of the law, because then you would certainly suspend the transfer to more than 90% of the municipalities in Serbia. You've been banned from employment for the next two years from saving 0.15% of GDP. Not what they're saving on that basis, I think you're going to need extra funds for your salary in the Budget Law. Since September of the month, workers have been admitted. In the past week, employee reception has been done everywhere, Mr. Krstic. You have the best intentions, what you've limited, but it's not like that in practice. The Đerdap 2 hydropower plant last week received workers, in many local self-governments as well. What problem will you have as a minister? That you won't apply Article 37. You'll be breaking the law. In Zajecar, for example. the total wage mass in this year has already been spent. The workers can't accept the pay for November, because the mass is exhausted. When it's projected for next year, they won't be able to receive a month's salary late and in the following year. So I urge you to at least erase the position of the 2nd member, so that you do not bear as minister responsibility for those you will not be able to apply in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30512	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. With one amendment, the government proposed to delete Articles 38, 39 and 40. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Srdjan Milivojevic and together Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic submitted to the 38th amendment in the same text. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30513	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have suggested that article 38 be deleted because the government has not defined the criteria for identifying the maximum number of employees in the local self-government unit, and at the same time this member of the law is in colluding with existing legal solutions. I'm going to define that for you on the case of, say, a doctor who works in a health care home, who's being financed from the budget of local self-government. You have a doctor who's already been punished by the fact that the government is cutting his salary. After that, he was also punished by the fact that, if he lives in a city where the SNS rules, he pays a bigger tax on property, which he didn't pay, and eventually, when he goes to the store to buy milk, sugar, Zeytin, he pays a bigger VAT. That doctor's salary, the real salary, that actual salary is significantly reduced, because the cost of his life has been costing him a lot of money, and the paying power has fallen significantly. If he has any more knowledge that his salary will grow 1% a year, his grief is even higher. Now, if this doctor has a wife who has finished college and has to be employed somewhere in that place, any place, Cacachak, Čuprija, Kruševac, Cicevic, Tristenik, all one thing, then the government still gives him a law by which two years in a public enterprise or a budget user cannot be employed by his family member or in a home of health. The question arises whether he should then move from Serbia to Germany to these new highways that are rapidly being built or should he stay in Serbia? Finally, while I'm talking about highways, in 2000, the infrastructure was destroyed, and since then we've been rebuilding hundreds of miles of highways and bridges to keep these young people here, not to move from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30514	Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30515	There's nothing to worry about. I remember a time when there was no tax on goods and services for milk, meat, medicines, food, baby equipment. Tax rate was zero. The then minister, and now a colleague from the DS, has introduced taxes on meat, milk, bread, eggs, drugs, food for children of 10%. Now explain why you didn't object to it at the time. I don't want to criticize anything else, I'm just asking a question. If someone introduced a tax on all these things, the minister of the then DS introduced it, and I mean not 10%, but 12%, because it was two feet 12% and 24%. That's true. Look at the 2001 official messengers. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30516	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30517	Dear Mr. Chairman, I also remember a period when milk, zeythin, sugar, baby equipment, oil and gasoline were thoughtbooks, because no matter how taxed they were, they couldn't be bought. It was a time when I was a five-colonel. Every day I was fifth in a column of milk, sugar, oil and basic life supplies, and at that time, thank the Lord God, it didn't happen again. At the time, you were the most responsible for the state of affairs. Now I don't know how you suddenly care about citizens? Why didn't you show concern for the citizens of Serbia at the time when we stood in endless ranks? I haven't forgotten that humiliation. The best years of my life I've spent in line to buy sugar, oil, gasoline. Did you sleep through that period? No, you were awake too. I wish you'd slept over, then Serbia's citizens would have been much better off. Now, of course, you're sleeping quietly because you don't remember that period. I ask if there's a mechanism where a man can break his mind and his memory like a thread, that he doesn't even remember the past, to relieve the sense of responsibility? You must have a responsibility for every day of your life in politics, because the consequences of those days when you've dealt with politics and today we feel. They're catastrophic, they're defeating. Do not honor us when we have arranged for the state of Serbia at last and when the citizens of this country were able to buy both sugar, and rabbit and baby equipment normally, to enter the store, like all the people in the world and say – we want the rabbit, you want the rabbit, you want five liters, you want five liters. I come to a gas station – I want to buy gas for a thousand dinars – go for a thousand dinars of fuel, not pour fuel from a two liters cooked bottle, which is cooked to reduce its volume to 1.8 liters. I don't want to remember that time, but I remember it. (President: Time.) I'm done. Don't worry, not every reminder is a threat, not every silence is forgotten.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30518	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30519	My colleague forgets some things, but good. In the ranks stood for the cheap ones, which were given from the stock reserves. You could have bought them anywhere you wanted. That's what you forgot to say. For what was cheap people were standing in line. They could have chosen – to pay more expensive or to stand in line for cheaper. Well, it was like that. Don't avoid responsibility now, but they had a choice. When you finished talking about the former regime of Slobodan Milosevic, you gave citizens more expensive, but you took something from them. You took their factories, you took their jobs, you took their salaries, and now it doesn't matter. That doesn't count? I've got nothing to buy when one hand's empty and the other's nothing. You left that kind of Serbia in 2012. Let me finish around that famous badge after you keep mentioning it. I wore that badge and implemented Mr Tomislav Nikolic's programme, which promised Serbian citizens that the party I was in at the time would introduce them to the EU. Since he couldn't end it in that party, we started a new one. That's one attitude that hasn't changed. In that part, we haven't changed, we want Serbia in the EU, to co-operate with both the East and the West and all. Those were pre-election promises in 2008, if you haven't forgotten that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30520	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30521	Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to thank you on behalf of the DSS for accepting this amendment to Article 38. You could see that we're thinking in the spirit of the budget and we want to fix it. What I would like to add to this opportunity is that the budget should take more care of transfers to local self-government. Allow me to remind both you and the citizens of Serbia that these transfers have been cut by 35 billion and slightly over 33 billion for this year. You should also know that in some other countries, much more resources are being allocated to local self-government. In Serbia, it is 7% and 3.5% for local self-government and 3.5% for Vojvodina from these non-intentional transfers, while in Slovenia, for example, that percentage is about 12%. These transfers were also reduced by two billion local self-government, 700 thousand AP Vojvodina. Recently, water, forest, roads, motor vehicle registration, etc., which in considerable part went into local self-government budgets, but these are certainly not parafiscal burdens because they were not regulated to go to local self-government budgets, because they were just used to maintain local roads, to protect the environment, to combat natural disasters, from fires, from floods, etc. You need to know that, for example, as far as local roads are concerned, bad roads mean less investment, which means less economic activity, less work and lower standard and worse living conditions. We agreed that we all want to improve our economic activity and to force the growth of the economic sector, etc., I just don't know how and in what way, because the few investors we're trying to attract by giving them job subsidies won't want to come where the bad infrastructure is. We give 300m euros annually to investors for employment, and we still have more than 25% of the unemployed. I wanted to ask you how in any way can we solve this?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30522	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30523	I thank Mr. Chairman Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Minister, it is good that the Government has seen its error and has one amendment erased Articles 38, 39 and 40, because all three members are in collegiate with the Budgetary System Act. When it comes to this amendment, i.e. this article in 39, the budget law was originally given an extremely high opportunity and a degree of power over the public entities of the finance minister, in this case to you, Mr Krstic. It's a good thing the government found out that she was wrong and that she first deleted these members. In fact, in the Law on the Budgetary System, the government predicted a body to deal with ex post employment. However, I would remind all of you here that in time, while in power the DSS Prime Minister was Vojislav Kostunica, the established Staff Management Service, whose primary task was to deal with precisely the personnel, the staffing, to deal with the call for competitions, the conduct of these competitions, means the internal stock market within the state administration. However, this Budgetary System Act has devalued that staff management service that now has about 80 employees. I say again, it's a good thing the government recognized that she made a mistake and put this amendment in order to delete members 38, 39 and 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30524	Thank you. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. In the words of the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30525	Dear Mr. Chairman, we of the DS have seen immediately that these laws, members of the budget law, are in collegiate with existing laws. You may have seen that mistake, perhaps you haven't, perhaps you've accepted our amendments. I, of course, have this huge grudge in the way you wrote this budget. Not to you, Mr. Minister, you're the technical part of the budget as far as those technical elements are concerned, but some of the accompanying elements that show the obvious ignorance and inability of the SNS to lead the country. That ignorance is seen by you saying that the minister will determine whether a teacher will be hired in Ariel. How does he know that? He must give consent to work in local self-government, in that local self-government that has fewer employees, and I'll just point out that we've left the local self-governments phenomenal and in those local self-governments, it's just for you to replace the bulbs and paint the bandits and you won't be able to do it. So you won't be able to do it, let alone do something else. Here, look at the cities where you took responsibility for the management of these cities, those cities you've matched with the republican government, like you did with the City of Belgrade. The stagnation, the collapse, the misery, which, the misery and the general collapse, is the mark of the SNS government in these cities. And now you still want to stop people from coming back to a graduate engineer in Ariel or Ivanjic or Kruševac, because there's nowhere to work, because that's where it's all failed under your advanced authority, and now it can only work at a state firm, and there's no business. The message is - go abroad, we don't need you, you're not our voter anyway, because you're educated. It's a very bad message and a dangerous message you send to the citizens of Serbia. To them, too, explain that in 2000, honey and milk flowed through Serbia... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Only milk was sour, and honey was eaten by bumblebees.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30526	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30527	It's a very arranged situation. In local self-government, they sit on each other's heads. There are no more offices to sit on. In public enterprises, it's a similar situation. I asked the director of Elektro Morave to send me a report and the structure of the staff. There's not enough electric engineers, there's not enough electricians, but that's why members of the DS, I think, of the Novi Sad Academy of Commerce have as much as you want. Economist ten to one engineer, lawyer to one technician. How are companies gonna do that? Don't worry that engineers, unfortunately we don't have enough of them, but we have found more than we need employees with professional equipment and qualifications that don't respond at all to the basic activity of a public enterprise or institution. That's unfortunately true. We can choose whether these people are going to be fired, I'm not for it even though they voted for DS, but we need to solve and bring these public enterprises into that functional state to be technically trained and humane in order to be able to perform their work. It's a problem that DS ran both local self-government and public enterprises where the founder is local self-government, and where the founder of the Republic has not taken care of at all. That's the problem this government has to deal with, and I'm absolutely sure we'll solve this problem successfully.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30528	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 40th amendment. In the words of the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30529	In Article 40, I say that the point is replaced by a comma and by the words "until 15 January 2014. I again underline that I am absolutely convinced that the government led by the prime minister who has only 25 MPs in the Republic Parliament cannot survive, that the government in the ruling majority has several dozen Vladimir Cvians, who are beginning to think for themselves, and not for the head of Alexander Vukic, cannot survive and that this government will fall before the end of this term, thank Lord God, until it does some greater damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Such a government, as it will fall immediately after the SNS election assembly on 25 January 2014, should, should bring all acts by 15 January 2014, if you want the government to operate in that short term without having to create a legal vacuum after the SNS election assembly and who is for Tomislav Nikolic, who is for Aleksandr Vukic. So, I just wanted to give you one particular dynamic, make you work, build responsible, and not leave one legal void in Serbia, because there is a gap in the register and in the bills of Serbian citizens so much that Serbian citizens can't handle it. So, you arrange for the state of Serbia as if it were our common state, as if it were your private house, and not as if it were a front to be treated by principle – take, grab and carry now and never again, because you won't have a second chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30530	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30531	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I agree with the gentleman who spoke before me. All I agree is, from the first sentence to the last sentence, just to explain to me how did Serbia fall in debt from 2008-2012 and his party president and his private firm become richer and richer? Explain this to me, and I confess, for all you are right, from the first to the last word. Furthermore, as far as this amendment is concerned, there is a difference between SNS and DS. They had to be set by law, ministers from the DS, in order to pass a sublegal act. These deadlines were constantly being changed. They had laws that were legal for a year and a half, but they couldn't be implemented because there was no sublegal act and I understand the fear of colleagues from the DS. Don't worry, we're way more efficient than you are. The law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication in the Official Messenger, applicable from 1 January 2014. Until then, there will be a sublegal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30532	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30533	Why are you throwing me instead of Mr. Arsic, who brings into this controversy absolutely unnecessary things? I have no intention of getting used to you here. The MP brought out things concerning the budget. He didn't talk about your companies. I don't know which time, this isn't your Cossack Assembly. I repeat, for the tenth time, don't say things that are false. Don't say things you don't have any basis for in the truth or in the facts. How long do you think you're taking Serbia this way? How long? That every answer to every question is your zero results and stories about what the Democratic Party was doing. Do you have any other subject besides the Democratic Party? Do you know anything but the Democratic Party? Can you decide to have three confidants in Subotic who didn't fight in the congregation today because they don't know how to share power? How many of your companies have received more profits, not your own, Mr. Arsic, but the people from your party, from the vice president to the president? So how many times did they increase profits? Forty times. Look, it's a small period, a short period. You know who bought it and what's going on on the media market these days? Ask around. (President: Time.) I'm sorry that there's no head of your parliamentary group here, to ask him the same thing about his companies and what he's doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30534	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30535	I don't make things up. These data are official and are on the Agency for Business Registers website, which you set up. We are dealing with the Democratic Party for one simple reason, it is an example of how a state should not be run. Our people say they're smart to learn from other people's mistakes and someone else to their own. It's a folk proverb. We don't want to learn from our mistakes, we want to learn from your mistakes. If you have any knowledge of whose companies have increased traffic 43 times, please tell me. Here you go, but the facts are at least, as far as I'm concerned, I keep avoiding names to say, rather than public functions. The fact is that an institution like the city of Belgrade is in charge, and someone recorded the profits privately. No one can convince me that he ran his private firm, and he was supposed to run the city of Belgrade. That's where we're done. Do you agree with me? Furthermore, we do not deal with functions in the Democratic Party. We are dealing with public functions that the leaders of the Serbian Progressive Party have that your members had while you were in power. That's the difference. If a fellow MP says we are treating Serbia as our private firm, not in charge of the state, grab from the budget and go home, it is not politics. Well, it's more like politics. And that's what's said. You're expecting a reaction right now, to pat them on the shoulder, we're going to tell our point of view what it looks like from our perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30536	National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev, Gorica Gajic and Marko Milutinovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30537	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, it is good that you have obliged this article 41 to direct budget users to submit once a month to the Ministry of Finance reports on the implementation of projects and programmes financed from foreign loans and loans to you, but it is not a good thing that you have not obliged and direct budget users to deliver these reports to the relevant Assembly Committee, the Finance Committee itself and the Assembly. We discussed a single amendment yesterday that the DSS submitted to Article 2, where we also requested that this amendment underline the control role of the National Assembly. Mr. Minister, and that's when I said we were giving you a blank license with a number that you'd be in charge of foreign creditors. After a year, you come to us with a new number that we'll be in charge of returning the loans to foreign creditors from the previous year. We don't know what interest and rate you'll be in debt and how much interest will be paid, and we see that it is climbing over a billion euros in this budget alone. That's why we insist, and we don't know why it's so hard to accept the DSS amendment, that the reports that you as finance minister get we, the MPs, through the resolution board, and therefore to come to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30538	Parliamentarians Marija Obradovic, Tamara Tripic, Vesna Jovicki, Donka Banović, Jelena Travar Miljević, Vesna Milekić and Dubravka Filipovski submitted together to the 41st amendment. The word has the People's MP Tamara Tripic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30539	Thank you. The Women's Parliamentary Network has proposed an amendment to Article 41 which speaks of delivering a report on the implementation of projects and programmes, where we have proposed to make sure that all data are classified and semi-represented. Why is that necessary? When we see the fact that citizens live in Serbia, but also citizens in almost identical numbers, the question of the effect of the government's measures on the entire population is raised – to what extent is the same right and equal chance for everyone? I read somewhere that there are some research to say only 2% of the women who own the landowners managed to participate and use subsidies in agriculture. There are analyses that say that citizens in Serbia are not in the same position on a variety of grounds. So we need to know what the effects of the measure are, and that's why we need data, data by half, because I guess we should all have equal chances and conditions in front of the state. I call on you to adopt the proposed amendment so that the state can see the effects and that some measures and policies change because they are not effective for all user groups and are not available to all members of a user group. I guess this is a country where we should all have not only equal rights but equal opportunities. I must point out that this amendment is also a alignment with Article 40. The law on gender equality which explicitly emphasises that the statistical data collected, recorded and processed at all levels in the country must be shown in half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30540	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30541	How life can very quickly deny all the oaths we just heard. If it hadn't been for this amendment, there wouldn't have been a mandatory deadline by January 15th to arrange the closer content of the report on the implementation of projects financed by the Ministry of Finance, it would have been done whenever you wanted and can. I was primarily in charge of the need for the government to drop after January 25th and that we should not have a vacuum in that transitional period but that we have clearly defined rules for all budget users. Since this is the last amendment I am applying to the budget law, and I don't think there are any amendments to the budget users, I'm going to use the right to tell you a few things. As the profits of a private firm increase, I can't teach you in two minutes. That's what you learn at college, and when you learn something from college, you don't have to buy a degree but to get a degree in knowledge, work and sacrifice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30542	Mr. Milivoevich, don't go off topic. You've explained this amendment well, and please return.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30543	I'm done. This is taught in some other colleges where it is taught that at a time when Serbian citizens remain without their apartments in Kosovo, they get a two-ar apartment. Finally, I call on the MPs, who took an oath to the Constitution of this country, to do their job in a safe and responsible manner, in the best interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not to vote in favour of this budget, to remain faithful to their assembly oaths they have made, because this is not a budget in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I call on the President of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic, not to sign this budget, to issue out of it his presidential oath before the MPs, becoming President of the Republic and not to sign this shameful budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30544	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to be so smart and intelligent, I don't know how to make myself, I'm just asking a question -- when someone was so good at running their own private company, which is how he didn't work with a city that was entrusted to him in the election? But, well, I won't talk about it anymore. I'd just like to congratulate my colleague who spoke before me on the new year 2014, wish for a lot of health, success, happiness, and a tour of Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30546	The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Finish him in a cheerful tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30547	I thank the Honorable Chairman. This is really the last amendment to the budget, but unfortunately, we can't end it in a cheerful tone. We have proposed that this law enter into force on 1 January 2014, not as it stands in this article's proposal 42, because we really believe that, given the specificities of the Budget Act, it is perfectly normal for it to enter into force on 1 January. He can't get in before that anyway. It explains that certain sublegal acts should be adopted, so you are now, indeed, representatives of the ministry, preparing these sublegal acts, and it is logical that they will also enter on January 1st. I don't see the reason why this amendment was rejected, nor do I think that argument is someone special, which could convince me, since certainly the Budget Law comes in on January 1st. I want to remind you one thing, that if we do not implement certain reforms, reform public enterprises, if we do not implement the reform of the state administration, if the state administration and state-owned public enterprises and all other beneficiaries of the budget do not respect the laws that this Assembly makes, if they do not comply with the laws on terms of monetary transactions, on public undertakings, on salaries, etc., it will not be good. As long as he earns Telekom, and eats it, for example, Petrochemy, Galenika, EPS, Railway, etc., we certainly can't go any further. All the losses of the state actually cover Serbian citizens, something through guarantees, something from the budget, something is forgiven, some are not paying for communals, etc. I just want to say once again that the DSS will support all the good and quality reforms that you propose in order to recover, above all, the Serbian economy and domestic businessmen, but it seems to me that this is not defined in this budget, and I don't think for that reason we can end up in a cheerful tone, but we always hope that this new year will bring us something better. Based on this budget, I doubt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30548	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30549	Thank you. I'll do it very briefly and I won't look back at the budget. I think we've talked enough about him and these laws in the last two weeks to recapitulate it. I want to say two things. I want to thank you first of all for what I think was a good and constructive discussion in one part of the budget and many other things along the way, and I hope that the practice we had this year will be about co-operation with the parliamentary groups and before the session itself, something where we will be able to, MPs of the group, but also many others in the next cycle, to include earlier, to have as many opinions and consensus as possible, at least on what are key issues, and then we can disagree on the answer. That's one thing I wanted to say, I wanted to thank you. The other thing is that this budget, as such, implies and that's what we talked about, we're not going to celebrate its adoption, but we have to get to work to realize it in this form. I just want to put out what I think is the seven guidelines that we have to follow, in order to actually, what we're going to vote today, implement into action, as the first thing on the way to this turn that we've started. These seven things are the first fight against the gray economy and the reform of the tax administration, i.e. collecting more taxes. Of course, if we fail on taxes and if we fail to be consistent with the projections we have, we see how far it leads. We've had that example this year, unfortunately. Secondly, it is to prevent further recovery of state banks, like these three we had, and these three months now as an inherited problem. This involves creating a strategy for state banks, something we've already started working on and where I hope that the first results, or first ideas, will already be based on the data we get by the end of the year. The third and quite substantial is the restructuring of the company. I think there are two different things here. One of these companies has been in restructuring for 10 and more years, 153, where we have to try to save as many jobs as possible, why not, in some cases, open new ones, hopefully with foreign investors, but also with our management efforts in these companies. The second is restructuring, conditionally speaking, that is, public sector reform, i.e. public enterprises. We can't afford to take on ourselves, to the state, to pay off the debts and liabilities of public enterprises, which has been a practice in the last few years, which is something we're unfortunately going to have to pay off without any further failures in this direction, if that's what I can call them, the next four years at least. The fourth thing is the state administration. I don't just mean the state administration, but the public sector in a broad sense, and also the narrow, without these public enterprises, I've already talked about them. Here we go with this law which is not ideal, which has been talked about a lot, about limited freezing of employment, and it will be a test – are we able, since we now have a register of employees, we can evaluate, prioritize and then carry out the work, to only hire where it is necessary, as a prerequisite for a more extensive reform that will allow for increased efficiency in education sectors, in education and science sectors, if you want, in health, in culture and in the end of the state and local administration, or local self-government. I think that efficiency, rather than efficiency itself, is particularly important, considering what a fiscal and economic situation we are in, but increasing efficiency in these domains is crucial to the medium- and long-term sustainability of the state as such. The next thing we talked a lot about, the thing we have to work on, is the change in the way we distribute the funds. This implies changing the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government and the adoption of the Law on the Financing of the AP Vojvodina. This is of crucial importance, and I hope, not to hope, but I don't think it will work without it, that the next budget is made under the new Budgetary System Act and with these two clearly defined laws that will determine the parameters and solve the doubt, so that we don't run all these discussions over and over again next year. I don't think that's gonna be easy. I think there should be a lot of people involved, but I also think it's a congregation state issue and that goes beyond the question of financing finance itself. Six things that haven't been talked about much, but in the background, it's a lot of work and it's still a matter of articulation of the exact way and conditions around these loans that will bring up to 700m euros, 500m euros and $200m of cheap loans to farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises. We're talking about loans from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund that were discussed a lot yesterday and the APEX loan. It's essential and it's something the finance ministry is working on. It is crucial that this money goes where it is needed and goes to things that will have a multiplier effect on our GDP growth. I consider that as a state in 2014 we are not able to finance infrastructure projects to the extent that we would like to finance or maybe help the economy, and that part of the economy needs to be restructured first in order to be able to help it. Finally, the seventh thing is where the Ministry of Finance will play a big role as such, but I think again that the state project is a process of joining the EU where much has to be done in order to simply agree and move towards the process of harmonising legislation. So it goes to our advantage at the same time, and let's do it as effectively as possible. Once again to recap, thank you for what was a constructive debate, my first debate. I hope you found it constructive, too, and we tried to give answers and explanations to every point and we still have a lot of work to do in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30550	Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provisions of Article 185(3) and Article 187 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly under which the President of the National Assembly can determine that the day for voting on the draft budget as well as on certain other laws will be immediately following the completion of the draft law, not waiting for the debate to be concluded and for the other points of the agenda. In accordance with this provision, the President of the Assembly set Friday, December 13, 2013 starting at 17.00 a.m. as a day for voting on points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda of this session, i.e. the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2014, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Serbia for 2014; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Social Insurance of the Military Insurance Fund for 2014 and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2014, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and amendments to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-13-0.u30551	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 8 of Article 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – 46, the abstentions were not voted by one of the total of 133 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is in accordance with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected the amendments of the People's MPs: Milan Lapčević to Article 7; together Prof. Dr. Slobodan Samardžić and Petar Petkovic to Article 32; jointly Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Ceković, Miodrag Djidić, Boško Ristić, Milovan Marković, Nebojja Zelenović and Zlatko Dragosavljevic to Article 32; and together by Dr. Nenad Popović, Bojana Božanić and Gorica Gajic to Article 32. It's a bill of law. According to Article 163(4) of the Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. The component of the bill has become: amendments of the Government to Art. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 14, 16 and 34 and the amendment to which the erasure of art is proposed. 38, 39, 40. Proposal for a law; Amendments of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds per article. Three, five and seven. The bill, given that the proposer's representative accepted them at the meeting of the Committee, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considered them in line with the Constitutional and Legal System of the Republic of Serbia; the amendments of the People's MPs: together Bojana Bozanić, Dusice Morčev and Gorica Gajic on Article 4, with the correction; Srdjana Savjanović on Article 7, with correction; Vuk Jeremic on Article 7, with correction; groups of 62 MPs of the Serbian Progressive Group on Article 7, Snježana Stojanović Plasić on Article 7; Srdjana Milivojevic on Article 13; in the same text on Article 38, submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic and together by Dr Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajić and Srdjana Milivojevic on Article 41. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Marko Milutinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP, Prof. Ruzica Igic, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154, out of 182 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160, out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Konstantin Samofalov and Milan Mirasavljevic submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – one, the abstentioned did not vote 152, of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radmila Gerov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155, out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154, out of 183 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mladjan Dinkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 181 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Mladjan Dinkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 181 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Dusica Morčev, Miroslav Petkovic and Marko Milutinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 164 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150, out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -33, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Marko Milutinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -23, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -26, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 160, against – no one, with abstention – voted 22 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Mr Bozidar Djelic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 150 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladjan Dinkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 179 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -31, against -no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Verica Kalanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Vladimir Ilic and Rajko Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jokovic and Nenad Kitanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mitrovica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Radmila Gerov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 155 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ruzica Igic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -21, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -18, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted to the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -34, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 144 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -28, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -29, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 149 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted the amendments to Sections 2, 3 and 13 of the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -25, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Samardzic, submitted the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -22, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Judita Popovic submitted amendments to Sections 3, 16, 25 and 30 of the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -25, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Division 3, 19, 21, 23, 24, 25, 28, 30 and 31 amendments to the correction were submitted jointly by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -26, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of Sections 3, 19, 20 and 22 of the amendments with corrections were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Divisions 3, 25, 30, 32 and 47 of the amendments with the correction were brought together by MPs Tamara Tripic and Jelena Trivan. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, submitted the amendments to Sections 3 and 29. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Sections 15 and 16 of the amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Konstantin Samofalov and Milan Mirosavljevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7, Section 16, 19, 20, 24, 28 and 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Kovac submitted to Sections 16 and 20 of the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 177 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted the amendments to Section 7th and 20th. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, with abstention – voted 144 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Mladjan Dinkic submitted amendments to Sections 16 and 20 of the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 177 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 16 and 20 of the amendments were submitted by the People's MP, Dusica Morchev. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Sections 16 and 23 of the amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Jovana Joksimovic and Balša Bozovic submitted together to Sections 16, 20 and 21 of the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted amendments to Sections 16, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 31 and 53 of the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Siniša Lazic submitted amendments to Sections 16, 20 and 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Divisions 16 and 22 of the amendments with the correction were brought together by MPs Mr Vladimir Ilic and Nikola Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Radmila Gerov, submitted to the 7th Sections 16 and 22 of the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to section 7th and 22th. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Divisions 16, 24, and 28 amendments to the correction were submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic, Nebojsa Zelenović and Zlatko Dragosavljevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic to section 7th and 28th. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 140 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Section of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Balint Pastor and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 46, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 7, the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Michael. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Branislav Mitrovica submitted the amendments to Sections 7 and 20 of the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 176 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Verica Kalanovic to section 7th and 22th. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 176 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7, 20 amendments were submitted by MP Ivan Jokovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 176 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 20 amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Mr Bozidar Djelic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljuban Panic submitted amendments to Sections 20 and 22 of the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Jovana Mehandzic Đurdzic submitted to Sections 20, 22 and 25 of the amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 142 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavica Saveljic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted amendments to Sections 20, 24, and 28. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 176 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendments to Sections 20, 24, and 53. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Sections 20 and 25 of the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic and Vladimir Gordic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7, Sections 20, 25, 26 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – one, abstention – there is no, 139 of the total of 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 26 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Ljiljana Lučić submitted amendments to Sections 20, 26 and 30 of the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 149 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Sections 20 and 27 of the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted the amendments to Sections 7 and 30. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dejan Nikolic submitted amendments to section 7 of the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Sections 23 and 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 24 amendments were submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Marija Obradović, Vesna Jovicki, Vesna Milekić and Dubravka Filipovski submitted the 24 amendments together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 106, no one, with abstentions, voted 73 of the 179 MPs present. Just to find out if it took 126 or most of the total number. The definition states that the National Assembly accepts most of the votes of all MPs or does not accept the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 24 amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Ruzica Igic, submitted 24 amendments to section 7. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Kitanovic submitted the amendments to section 7th and 28th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 25 amendments were submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Division of the 28th Amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Mojovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Maja Vidinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On article 7, the 28 amendments with the correction were submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 179 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 30 amendments were submitted by MP Ranka Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 30 amendments were submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 30 amendments were submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of the total attendance of the 181 MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, 33 amendments were submitted by MP Jadranka Joksimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -28, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -18, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 163 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 164 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 172 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Radmila Gerov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 165 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 167 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 172 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against – no one, with abstention – voted 151 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marija Obradovic, Tamara Tripic, Vesna Jovicki, Donka Banović, Jelena Travar Miljević, Vesna Milekić and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -78, against – no one, with abstention – voted 104 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 170 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -22, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 out of the 181 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -26, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 17a be added after article 17. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -23, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the total attendance of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against – no one, with abstention – voted 165 out of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Marko Milutinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 166 out of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jokovic and Rajko Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Verica Kalanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Susan Grubjesic, Ana Novkovic and Jelena Travar Miljević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Jovanovic and Mr Vladimir Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -23, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment with corrections was brought together by MPs Jovana Joksimovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Bozidar Djelic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against – no one, with abstention – voted 161 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Slavica Saveljic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Konstantin Samofalov and Milan Mirosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 151 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Slobodan Samardzic, Dr. Nenad Popovic and Petar Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic to article 33. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 149 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 34th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Teodora Vlahović and Mr. Bozidar Djelic and together Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic, submitted the MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th amendment was submitted by MP Mladjan Dinkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 179 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Verica Kalanovic and together by Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 146 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Lapčević submitted together to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev, Gorica Gajic and Marko Milutinovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marija Obradovic, Tamara Tripic, Vesna Jovicki, Donka Banović, Jelena Travar Miljević, Vesna Milekić and Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 81, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 101 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People's MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that, by adopting amendments to the Government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on members 3 and 7. Proposal for a law, the situation referred to in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of these amendments, created the need for the committee in charge to submit new amendments that bring the amendments adopted to one another and with the text of the draft law. I therefore set a 10 minute break, and I ask you to meet immediately the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives in Hall 1 of the National Assembly and submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. You have been presented with amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 44 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – voted 43 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – 40 abstentions – there is no vote, one of the 175 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2014. Having adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly gives agreement to the financial plans for 2014 of the Republican Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Fund for Military Insurance and the National Employment Service. I would like to put the motion for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 38 abstentions – there are no votes, six out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2014. I would like to put the motion for a decision to give consent to the 2014 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 41 abstentions – there are no, four of the 176 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2014. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the 2014 Social Insurance Fund. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 40 abstentions – there are no, five of the 174 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Social Insurance Fund's 2014 Social Security Fund. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's 2014 financial plan. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 40 abstentions – there are no votes, six out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service's 2014 financial plan. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on the amendments and additions of the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 39, the abstentions – there are no votes, six of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2013. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the 2013 Financial Plan of the National Employment Service. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 38 abstentions – there are no votes, six of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision on amendments and additions to the 2013 Financial Plan of the National Employment Service. We'll continue work Monday at 10:00.
