ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18858	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow MPs, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Education, but for who knows which time we ask the same thing, what does he think of the scandals that took place for a small graduation? I also ask Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic - does he know that apartheid has been abolished in Africa, and in our country has not yet? Yesterday, in the math tests, national minorities had different tasks from schools to schools. In fact, students of national minorities had entirely different tasks on the math test at the final graduation. I ask the Ministry of Education, Minister Obradovic, how does he feel about why the tests were different? The assignments were completely different. So, in mathematics, is two and two not four for both minority members and members of the majority people? It was discovered that in schools where only the language of national minorities was taught, the directors didn't even know it because they simply got math tests, they divided them into students, and they didn't even know that the tests were actually different tasks. It was discovered by school directors and professors working in bilingual schools. So they compared tests that were in the Serbian language and language of the national minority and saw the tests differ. I don't know how it happened when the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education, which is doing these tests, how it actually did these different math tests for national minorities and for students who attend classes in Serbian. What I'm trying to say is that members of the national minorities are twice as endangered. So their math test was different, they had different tests. After all, their tests weren't broken, so they couldn't even buy them on the streets. So I'm talking about a double threat.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18859	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18860	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have two questions for the Prime Minister. On June 12th, the president of the World Federation, Sam Blater, who spoke primarily with Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, came to our guests, and then spoke with sports and youth resolute Minister Mrs Alice Maric and spoke with Serbia's Football Federation President Tomislav Karadzic. In a conversation, Mr. Blater asked Prime Minister Dacic to find a solution to the problem of Serbia and so-called Serbia's relations. Kosovo states, and Serbia does not prevent so-called The football union of Kosovos enters the World Football Organization. He said there was a plan. I can't tell you the plan, but the first step of the plan will be to meet the president of Serbia's Football Union, Tomislav Karadzic and the president, so-called. The football alliance of Kosovos, Fadil Vokrija, who played for "Partizan" at the time. At the moment Mr. Blater was in Serbia, a tournament began in Switzerland where a young Kosovo team participated. When you look at the site of their football alliance, you'll see pictures with national markings and you'll see the moment when an anthem is played, so to speak. The Republic of Kosovo. I ask the question to Mr Dacic - while Serbia will stick its head in the sand as a noose and that the faces will at all react as a state to one such thing or it is part of a plan that Mr Samblater did not want to talk about, and the newspaper says that Mr Blater is a lobbyist of pieces and that he took big funds to lobby that so-called. The football union of Kosovos is an independent institution in the World Football Organisation. That's the question I want an answer to get from Prime Minister Dacic. The second question is about yesterday's event that took place. He's been replaced, so-called. liaison officer, Mr. Ljuljim Peci, who was otherwise an ambassador to Kosovo in Sweden. He was replaced because of a thoughtless statement he made in Belgrade that normalisation of Serbia and Kosovo is expected only when Serbia recognises Kosovo. He was replaced by the president of the so-called so-called president. Kosovo governments, Hashim Thaci, not officials' reactions in Belgrade. Instead of declaring him a non-grate person and getting kicked out of the country, he's being replaced by his Prime Minister. One question is asked – how long will Serbia be condescending or lenient to those diplomats who are very proud of our country, who are waving into the politics of the Serbian state, remember Mr. Cimmerman, the former ambassador of Germany, who interfered with Serbia's state integrity? A career diplomat, Veljdet Sadiku, former Kosovo ambassador to Croatia, comes to the post of Mr. Peci. Many of our officials convince us that so-called Liaison officers are not ambassadors, but it seems in the dictionary of Serbian diplomacy, the officer is increasingly calling himself an ambassador. My question to Prime Minister Ivica Dacic - does this mean the arrival of all these ambassadors or, as we call them, the liaison officer, the establishment of diplomatic relations between Serbia and Kosovos, and does it even prepare the public of Serbia that Serbia will recognise an independent state of Kosovo in some subsequent period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18861	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want to ask for an explanation? The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, has signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, today is the World Day of Refugees and a good cause to remind ourselves of the greatest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia's space. In Serbia, more than half a million expelled Serbs live in BiH and Croatia, living more than 200,000 internationally displaced people from KIM. In Serbia, too, there are more than 100,000 Serbian citizens who are neither refugees nor internally displaced persons, but who are in the meantime between 1945. and in 1990, acquired property, acquired rights in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, but those rights cannot be realised. One of our activities is citizens who are four, five generations living in Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Požarevec, but unfortunately cannot return their apartments, cottages in Croatia. I would especially like to thank the president of the National Assembly, Mr Stefanovic, for receiving yesterday a delegation of refugee associations on the world day of refugees and showing great understanding for our problems. A few conclusions were reached at the meeting. The first is that by the end of this year, a special session of the National Assembly will be convened at the latest to discuss human rights violations of the expelled Serbs from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the end, the resolution on respect for the human rights of refugees and exiled persons and other damaged citizens from Croatia and BiH passed the debate. What is the objective of this resolution? The resolution's goal is to further oblige the Serbian government to conduct a stronger dialogue with representatives of the authorities in Zagreb and Sarajevo, to further meet international organisations, such as the UN, who are the depositary of the Vienna Agreement on Succession, the EU, the Council of Europe, the OSC, that it is unacceptable, that we cannot talk about reconciliation if we have hundreds of thousands of citizens who are damaged in their human rights. I'd like to ask three questions. I ask the first question to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Veri Mavric, who co-ordinates working groups that should work to find concrete solutions, related to pensions, property, missing persons, etc. How long did it take to negotiate with official Zagreb and Sarajevo to solve concrete problems? A second question would be asked by the Serbian government's High Representative for the implementation of the Vienna Sucession Agreement. Did the talks begin, and regarding the implementation of the annex of the G Vienna Agreement on Succession, which is called – private property and acquired rights? The annex says very clearly that all citizens must be returned to their rights on 31 December 1990, and all contracts concluded under pressure and threat will be declared void. I remind you that the Vienna Agreement on Succession has more legal power than domestic laws and under the Constitution of Croatia, Serbia, BiH, as well as international law. The third question, it was also one of the conclusions of yesterday's meeting, which is the issue of the refugee and migration commissioner Vladimir Cucic, and about the funds from the international donor conference. Serbia is scheduled to receive 300m euros over the next six years to solve 17,000 families that are tenants or live in collective centres. The question – what will be the dynamics of spending these funds, how much should Serbia receive in 2013 funds to address the housing issues of refugees, in terms of building apartments, buying rural properties, buying houses and allocating packages of construction material? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18863	The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18864	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am referring the question to the president of parliament, so to the president of the Assembly, Mr Stefanovic. In a situation where MPs and parliament are spoken of rather negatively, when the rating and parliament and MPs are at a very low level, and when MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly are only spoken of from the aspect of their incomes, i.e. by individual MPs, wanting to change such a picture of the MP and parliament, decide to open the offices of the MPs. I'm among those MPs, too. I opened an office in the old assembly building on King Milan Street. When the office started working, when it came to life, when in two-and-a-half months, dozens of citizens passed through the office, when many problems were solved, when the office employs a large part of those with huge problems coming into the office, Parliament's decision to ban the issuing of temporary passes comes. According to information, you know well that I am the first time in this assembly an MP, and I have not had enough experience, but in my conversation with my colleagues, I have informed that no temporary pass has ever been issued. I needed temporary passes, because the normal work and functioning of the office needed the work of certain persons or persons in that office, because by the nature of the work of the MP I could not sit in the office uninterrupted. In that sense, I addressed the Faculty of Political Sciences and got, or introduced into the office of three volunteers, an graduate of political sciences. So, I can't understand that someone has an interest in being in our economic and social situation today, someone beyond his constant obligations that he doesn't have on this plan. The number of people who have passed through the office, I think it speaks enough of the need for this kind of work and the engagement of MPs. I ask the question to the President of Parliament – why did he not allow temporary passes to be issued? It's about three temporary passes. Is that selective, does this rule apply to everything or is this rule applied in my case? I also ask a question – who is it in the interest that MPs do not approach citizens the work of a MP and parliament? What's more important, who's in the interest of not being involved in helping and solving a series of huge problems of our citizens in this economic and social situation?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18865	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18866	My question is to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture and Information and the first Deputy Prime Minister. So, since we know the addresses of those most responsible in this country, the DS is asking the question – when and how will the state stand up and stand in the way of the media darkness in which Serbia falls? When will the RRA, the Ministry of Culture and Information do something, the Press Council, the Associations of Journalists, the Government of Serbia, the Assembly, anyone in this country stop this unremembered harangus from carrying lies, ad hoc attacks on people from the DS who repeat themselves day to day in most tabloids, and now we see it in electronic media? This joke of untrueness, lies, unfounded claims, often hiding behind a team of certain lists, without names and last names, continues from day to day. Serbia is slipping into one-minded and dictatorship, while the competent institutions will keep quiet about it during that time. Unfortunately, this whole topic has already reached the European Commission, which has pointed to certain, very clear, irregularities in our media sphere. That's why we're asking the Prime Minister and everyone else in charge, including the Prime Minister, when will the state withdraw from the media? When are we gonna hear and get our first vice president's promise and hear who bought the policy list? When will the Government and the Minister of Culture and Information give an explanation? How do you explain the fact that Mr. Dmitrovic, a 90-year-old war-hungarian politician, is being appointed as editor-in-chief of the "News" list? Is it possible for Minister Resort and Prime Minister to explain, without investing in the journalistic quality or inadequacy of Mrs Smajlovic, to be appointed editor-in-chief of the list of Women who took severance from the list of Politics and now returns there to the same place. It's all legal. The question is, is it moral? Is that the media picture you want to take? Is anyone in this country aware that the people you're setting up, I repeat, as editors-in-chief, are mostly people who have been visiting on your party television? What do we expect next? Should we expect certain Bashanovic to be the editor-in-chief of RTS? Are people in this country aware that today in Serbia, electronic media is dealing with comments? That hasn't been since 2000. Is anyone in this state able to say enough and get in the way of all this? My question goes to Minister Obradovic. Has it been established that the tests we delivered to them yesterday from the Serbian language are either not authentic and how long does it take them to confirm or deny that these tests are correct? If they are authentic, it is confirmed that our request, which I repeat this time, is that Minister Obradovic resigns urgently. What is certain is that in this math test scandal and as we can see from the Serbian language, it looks also from the Serbian language, which appeared on the internet and many people are talking about it, the government is still not responding. Our question also to Minister Obradovic – will he be in the play of the government's ministers who have come into a situation to never keep their promises, to be caught by the public and the Democratic Party in a counter-warrant operation or in a lie? Will Minister Obradovic stand proudly in a machine with Minister Knezevic who has done nothing about aflatoxin, with Minister Bačević to build a channel to Thessaloniki and other failed, inadequate, unprofessional ministers from the ruling coalition? We believe that the Serbian public, who is closely following this problem of tests and parents who are very concerned, wants to hear from Minister Obradovic what message is being sent to those who were preparing for the exam compared to those who bought the exam. Is that the manner in which the ruling party has probably learned how to reach its diplomas? Parents, students, teachers have the right to know how long this humiliation will last, they have the right to know what you gentlemen have established. They have the right to know that Minister Obradovic must know that there is a difference between guilt and responsibility. (President: Time. ) Perhaps Mr. Obradovic is not subjectively guilty, but he is certainly objectively responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18867	Thank you. National MP Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18868	Thank you, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is – when will the members of the Government, i.e. Ministers in this government respect an institute that is available to us, as MPs, and it is called asking parliamentary questions, and it is precisely as an instrument of control over the work of the Government and to deliver its answers to us within the deadline provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it is rarely happening, in my case, that I have never received two answers to the questions asked, and besides, it is often a situation for the absence of a response to the MPs, even within that deadline that is foreseen, in fact, after the expiry of the deadline provided for in Article 206 and its position 3, which relates only to exceptionality, when asking a parliamentary question is actually necessary for the purpose of appropriate preparation? This first question is referred to the President of the Assembly or to you if you can answer. The second question was also addressed to the president of the assembly. Namely, when will the National Assembly agenda come up with a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a survey committee on the identification of all facts and circumstances relating to the murder of Topcider soldiers at the Karash military facility, which I handed over in front of the DHSS in November last year, and on what proposal did the Government give a positive opinion on 8 April? Actually, my question is when will such a single question be found on the agenda? My third question, which is also referred to by the President of the National Assembly, and you can answer, if you are able to – which member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since here by all the presidents we have different interpretations, free and authentic, which member of the Rules of Procedure explicitly determines that, as we heard yesterday, the so-called course of debate in replicas excludes the possibility of MPs to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that of one of the most important members, members of the 106th and other, who, as a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, determines that the replicas of the Members of Parliament are being made possible, as we heard yesterday too, in fact, in connection with the permitting, in fact, giving replicas to those MPs who are actually going to discuss the current topics, because I think that we have one special institute of something like this, and it is called a special session on the topic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18869	Mr. Florist, you signed up, but I have to admit I don't have the authority of the head of your parliamentary group, so I can't give you my word. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miljenko Dereta, Mladen Grujic and Milica Radovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, has called for meetings of both Muhedin Fijuljanin and Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr. Zoran Kostic, Ljubisa Antonijević, Vesna Fila, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Stupar and Prof. Dr. Ivica Radović, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Nevenka Novaković, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We continue the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on basic education and education. I ask if anyone wants another word on the amendment to article 51 submitted by the MPs Dr Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and Jovana Mehandzic? National MP Dr Miodrag Stojkovic. I'm taking time from the MP's group, since the time of the promoter has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18870	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have proposed a change to this article 51, to change, instead of "the school is obliged to have a website", to say "school can have a website", because we know what our infrastructure school system is in. Unfortunately, he's not in the best shape, I'd say very sick, and this less or less obligation that the school has its own website brings the school into an even worse position. We are not against the Internet, but against one obligation to introduce a website, especially if we know that, based on the information provided by the Republic Institute for Internet Information, only 20% of municipalities have good infrastructure, but also technical personnel that can work to maintain a quality website. It's on one side. On the other hand, that website should also help students get faster, easier to get information. However, you have another example in public life, to get a copy of the birth certificate via the Internet. That, unfortunately, only works in 22% of municipalities, so we have that same problem again. I do not doubt the technical expertise of people and their desire to have a website, but the question is – where are they able to have a website, because Article 49 also says – the school is obliged to have a school library. Of course, the school is obliged to have a school library, but reality says that the school has an average of 17 books, a school library owns an average of 17 books, and all those who work in schools know from which period these books come from, are probably gathered works by Michael Lalic or some other writers, so there are not enough funding, nor grounds to keep this as you suggested, that the school is obliged to have its own website. So we suggest that you change that into – the school can have its own website and according to its material abilities and according to its technical capabilities determine whether they can have a website, because unfortunately there are schools, I will tell you from an example of the Leskovec environment, where schools are looking for money to help them buy a national flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18871	Thank you. Just to correct myself, time has been taken away by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Komlenović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Radoslav Komlenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18872	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the gentlemen of the Ministry, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I will briefly explain why we have submitted this amendment. In Article 54, paragraph 3, after the words "class" are added, "with confirmation of the completion of the preschool preschool programme, issued by the preschool institution". The explanation – this supplement represents what is expected of the law, and the expectations are that the law defines the procedure and the list of documents to be submitted when the child is enrolled in the first class. Since the preschool preschool programme is an obligation, this amendment would also clearly determine the responsibility of pre-school institutions for the implementation of the programme, as well as by defining its obligations, which have been prescribed that it is the institution issuing the certificate of the completed preschool preschool programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18873	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title in front of Article 55 and Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18874	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Minister Obradovic, representatives of the government, my distinguished colleagues and I have tabled an amendment to Article 57 which speaks of responsibility for enrolment and regular teaching. We changed the number 30 in the third position by 15, i.e. that within 15 days, the school is obliged to respond to parents, and related to enrolment outside the school area. In this way, we wanted the school to be more expedient and that parents had more time to enroll the child in another school. We also reacted to attitude 6. It's about not coming to class. Maybe it's some troubled child or troubled children, and in that sense, other than local self-government, we've asked that the school inform the Center for Social Affairs, as well, so that they react. Maybe it's a family problem, maybe it's a child problem or some other anomaly. For these reasons we have just written this amendment and I am surprised that the Ministry has not accepted this amendment has been exaggerated and meaningful. I suppose the minister will reconsider this amendment of ours and perhaps accept it in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18875	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18876	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, together with colleagues from the SVM Group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 58. When one reads it this way - in Article 58, paragraph 4: "three" is replaced by the word "four", as well as the government's explanation of why the amendment was rejected - the amendment was rejected because the amendment to the same member of Mr. Djordj Milicevic from another parliamentary group was accepted, then it is not clear either the government's argument, nor perhaps this amendment, but its essence is that if students of the national minorities, which I have spoken about many times, attend classes in Serbian, they have the opportunity to learn their native language with elements of national culture, not as a university, but as an electoral subject. When they choose this native language with the elements of national culture as an electoral object, they should, in accordance with the right of students who are not members of national minorities, but of the majority people, who have the right to two electoral subjects, and remain this possibility, that they should simply not be discriminated against and that they should not be reduced to the possibility of these two electoral subjects. So this math or numbers is three to four. Unfortunately, the Ministry obviously thought differently. We don't understand why it's impossible to accept this, but we're just asking that, besides the native language and students, members of national minorities have the right to two more electoral items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18877	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have not called to explain the previous amendment because I am fully in agreement with the explanation that you have put in place and which you have explained why you have rejected the amendment. I think it's okay, and I think it was a better solution. However, with this amendment, I am asking you to look at it objectively. So, in Article 60, paragraph 14, after saying, "the department elder is obliged to regularly monitor student evaluations," the point is placed, and the rest of the text is deleted. Why? Because you, in your explanation for the refusal of this amendment, have just called for it to be the obligation of a class elder, and in the bill of law you have placed one sentence, or continued this sentence with the text that the department elder reminds and reminds his colleagues of the number of grades given to the students. First of all, it's not the department elder's job. He is the first among the equal in the class council, the class council. Therefore, the teachers in question have a legally prescribed obligation to give an assessment from their class to each student during one semester, so it is not up to the department elder to carry it out. There could be a little more unpleasant situations and tensions in the department itself and the class council and the class council if this is how this member of the law would be implemented, i.e. Article 14. So, exactly what you've been invited to refuse this amendment you've given me in an explanation. It is his obligation to follow the student evaluation and that is what every class elder is doing with great security, but it is not his to warn his colleagues because there could be unpleasant situations. They have obligations and are known to whom they correspond if they sink, not to a class elder, they have some other kind of legal responsibility. That's the only reason I'm asking you to accept this amendment if you can comply with what's in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18879	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Kraolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18880	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 62 refers to the assessment of student rule. Although during yesterday I disagreed with Mr Atlagic, my esteemed colleague, in many things, we fully agree here, because I also believe that school should raise both education and education is a parallel process which, in some ways, this part of the education is assessed by the assessment of the rule. In doing so, I believe there is really no harm to the child, for a student, to be evaluated from this area. As you have suggested in Article 62, it is said that the rule of students from the first to the fifth grade is assessed in the course and at the end of the semester, and that the final assessment from the rule of the students of the attitude of the first member, which is: appropriate, very good, good, satisfactory and unsatisfactory, does not affect the overall success of the student. In the next 4th position you gave – that the assessment of the conduct of the 3rd article at the end of the first and second term is numerical and you gave examples, appropriate - five, very good - four, etc., and that affects the overall success of the students. We think it's really a little funny to expect from a kid who has a completely different treatment from first to fifth grade, so he can act the way he wants to, and that's not sanctioned in any way, that he's changing rapidly in sixth grade and that he understands the consequences of his actions. That's a little hard. It's just that it's appropriate for a child to learn from the beginning that he has the right to behave in various ways, but that every kind of behavior produces consequences, good or bad for a child, but a child has to understand that. Therefore, we suggest that you evaluate the rule of students from first to eighth grade in the course and at the end of the semester, and then delete attitudes 2 and 3 and leave only attitude 4, where we say further – in the course of the year, the mid-term is estimated from the first to the eighth grade and at the end of the year that assessment is numerical, as you have given in attitude 4 and that assessment affects success. I think we've missed generations and generations of students with this new mantra that requires a great deal of effort from them to behave decently and that, like, well, only after they become more serious about teaching them order. You know how that doesn't work. I think somewhere there's a promotion that it's politeness, that decent conduct is necessary for everyone at school, and for the professor and the student, and that's just something that every one of us needs to work in its own domain to promote. There's nothing wrong with being decent and raised and getting a decent grade that affects success. That's our attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18881	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18882	The Honorable Chairman, this amendment may make sense. Maybe the Ministry should really consider whether it makes any sense to even make a descriptive assessment. It has long been used in our pedagogical practice, then abandoned, then reused, then abandoned. Just look at Article 62, Section 2. – the final assessment from the rule of the students of Article 1 is appropriate and, you see, from the fifth to the eighth equally appropriate, and here we put an excellent score numerically. Somewhere we put, somewhere not, and appropriate, if five is put from the fifth to the eighth, I guess it's from the first to the fourth. Secondly, one primary task of school, I guess we won't be convincing ourselves here, at least the educators, and our parents know that, too, is education and education. We grade students at school, and their behavior and their knowledge, and when we do the whole grade, I guess we take it out of one component and out of another. It's just that this is in conflict with each other. This should really be considered, because then we'll get the better behavior of our students at school and at the classes of individual classes. I know it also depends on how attractive the teacher teaches, how interesting he is, etc., but he cannot be equally interesting to all students. So, simply, rule should even enter the average grade. It was in our pedagogical past, pedagogical theory and practice, and it was a good pedagogical theory and practice. There's no reason to give up good things, because we're not going to get violence in schools then, you know, to the extent that we have today. I have to say, I'm sorry, one more sentence. In 2000, with the storm that was created, we actually destroyed the mass of achievements of pedagogical theory and practice for hundreds of years in Serbia and we are a little shyly returning it. Why don't we have the courage to return it, in the interests of our children and in the interest of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18883	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18884	I'll explain very briefly. I agree with everything my colleagues said before me, both counterpart Atlagic and colleague Milica Vojic Markovic. I've come up with this amendment a little differently. I still advocate, of course, that the assessment of the rule of the student who enters the average shift is that its introduction on average is already in the fifth grade of elementary school, so that's something I'm going to advocate further. It's not accepted. We've had a lot of polemics in this law in the past, in fact, to get our rule grade back on average, and I think that's where we took a good step. I think we've been very helpful in the process of education and education, which are indivisible in practice, because you can't educate someone without raising them, and vice versa. So that's what I'm going to continue to advocate. I don't know if the Ministry will accept this in some of the changes and additions later, but I'm still staying in this position.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18885	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Obradovic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 63. The law also has some good things. He says in his third position – to achieve additional support in education and education, school director, teacher, expert associate, educator, teaching assistant and parent, or guardian, can receive special professional assistance with regard to the implementation of inclusive education and education. But unfortunately, this member of the Law has several bad attitudes, which are the last three statutes of the Law, which say – the lists of persons and schools of the 5th article are determined by the minister, closer to the conditions for determining the list of articles of the 6th member also prescribed by the minister. What's wrong with that? Personally, I don't think Minister Obradovic can deal with any previous powers. He's taking over new powers with this law. My guess is not the fruit of hypothetical thinking. Serbian citizens had the opportunity to see a scandal two days ago, which is still shaking Serbia and which has not yet received its court epilogue, with counterfeiting and corruption over passing admission exams in primary and secondary schools. Now there's one big problem. Why give the minister new powers when he's not handling himself in the best way? I simply cannot understand that there is one frantic indifference of the ruling majority towards what is happening in Serbia and that we act as if nothing is happening. Now we're giving more power to a minister who doesn't even deal with the existing one properly. I urge you from the ruling majority to take off your Boxing Gloves from Zaječar and focus on Serbia and say that this is not good and that we do not let this thing that has been shaking Serbia go on for three days just as if nothing was happening. We are discussing some laws on basic education, and we are not closing a very problematic case which has and how it upset the public, there is no answer, no solutions, but announcements in the tabloids that it will be resolved. So these aren't good references to the law, these aren't good powers. I don't know if you understand me, some experts. It would be like if some minister had just said -- here, when I sell Telecom, I would give four thousand euros. Not a thousand euros, but another four thousand euros, and he didn't give the first thousand euros. So now we have a minister who wants even more power, even more effort to invest, and hasn't met the previous one. That's not good. I think that comparison was very good, very understandable. I expect the support of you from the ruling majority not to let anything like this pass. I especially expect support for the affairs and scandals over the admission exams to be resolved before the court. There's something called the criminal responsibility of the directly responsible, there's something called political responsibility. Political responsibility involves shifts and resignations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18887	Thank you. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18888	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister and Associates Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like to say on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group that the laws here that are being adopted are system laws that regulate a particular area in the best possible way. We're all here to fix the proposed text. Of course, we cannot completely change the offered text. The great effort is also being made by the opposition in all of this, but of course neither by the legislator nor by the ruling majority, because of some demagogy, the majority cannot fully accept the proposals of opposition MPs, because then one inversion would be made which is unnatural, that the minority is ruled by the majority, and that the government or ministers should comply with what are criteria, attitudes, etc. The opposition. When it comes to the powers of the minister, even in this law, several members are mentioned that the minister is authorised to settle certain issues, as well as here what we have, but I remind all MPs that this law is not being made and is not being adopted according to the terms of Zarko Obradovic. We have the minister's institution. Today, Zarko Obradovic is the minister. Certain legal solutions, e.g. In the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and others who were in the role of the minister, and he was not then Zarko Obradovic. So right now, it seems a law with certain rules, with certain provisions that will apply until the next time they are on the agenda of some changes and additions. At least it can be said for Minister Zarko Obradovic that he proposed laws on his own. That's not true at all. Maybe some of them did it before him. Of course he doesn't. This is about a minister, not a name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18889	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18890	Here, let me join up. I think the legislator has put this position six, seven and eight correctly. Representatives of the parties who believe this should be deleted. So the question is, who needs to take care of it, and it's about professional help? Professional assistance to inclusive education can only be provided by professionals. The minister and his team within the Ministry, he's the only one who knows who they are. Deficitologists of a particular kind, not to list, psychologists etc. Somebody else can't. This is a universal thing, it's not about this minister who's in front of us today, but what my colleague said before me, it's one procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18891	Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18892	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am following this debate over this member and I see that a huge misunderstanding is why the DS Parliament Club criticises the resolutions in Article 63, where it is said that the lists of persons and schools of Item 5 of this article are determined by the minister. So, those faces, those schools that can provide professional support in the process of inclusion. We criticise it primarily because it needs to be excluded from the system of every volunteerism and any excessive responsibility that is personally tied to the minister, any minister, in any system. The right solution is, and that's what maybe we should have done here. Programs should be accredited and people licensed. No school experts' lists. Believe me that way, first of all, there is one responsibility that no one can bear objectively. How can a man know that on that list, I don't know 100 people are competent people, if the programs of that support, the people carrying out that support aren't accredited, or licensed. So in some sectors, first of all, I mean in the social sector, we all faced the same problem as the system, and we solved it through the accreditation and licensing system. The suggestion to formulate differently the possibility of support in an inclusive process goes this way and goes in this direction to objective things, not to increase the responsibility of the minister or any one in the ministry without need, but to have certain institutions dealing with accreditation and licensing, and then in some processes that are standardised we avoid a mistake as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18893	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18894	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to say from experience why this is a good solution proposed by law. One of the social groups with which an inclusive education was conducted is the Roma. We have really certain experiences back a few years. I must say that yesterday in Zagreb, Serbia was just highlighted as a country whose example of good practice should be taken over by other countries in the process of implementing the decade. Why is this really the important thing? We really have so many problems at the local level, in municipalities and at other levels of government that we simply don't have at the local level and at other levels of government capacity that in an appropriate way we create equal conditions in all educational institutions, that those who do this teaching in the same way, at the same time, at the same level, they are trained to actually do this, to have certain training, to have one training process because we have to admit that even though we stand out in the region as good, that we too have certain experiences to sum up, to follow. That's the only way to do it. If someone who is like a minister is the center of gathering all these experiences, it is a centre that will allow all these people to gain new knowledge and on the basis of the conclusion that we have truly achieved equal conditions for everyone else. I can't understand that an undeveloped municipality in Serbia, as well as Belgrade, can raise the capacity of these people and say, are they capable of doing it. In this way, I think the minister is going to meet the socially endangered, rural environments. I see it as the responsibility of the minister, not as the right to choose, but as a responsibility to raise the capacity of all these people and to ensure in Serbia that it has a certain quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18895	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 65th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic:
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18896	Thank you. I would just point out that I am glad that the Ministry of Education recognized the quality of this amendment and that indeed when it comes to commending and rewarding students to supplement this first attitude and to read – a student who stands out in learning and ruling, is commended or rewarded. So that's that supplement that's very good. There was a lot of talk about how many schools there were, except that she was an educational and educational institution. I know examples of students, for example, who have had excellent conduct, who ended school year without any absence, either justified or unwarranted, but may not have had a great success or had all fives or fours, etc. It just kind of got in the way that those students really should be commended, and for taking classes so regularly. So I'm glad you recognized and accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18897	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18898	Dear Ministers, the amendment to Article 67, which reads in the original text - student parliament, and then Article 67, for students of the seventh and eighth classes, is organised by the student parliament in accordance with the law. The student parliament is delivering a report on its work to the School Committee and the School Parents' Council. The amendment that I have submitted implies the existence of these two positions and the introduction of another third position that says - the student parliament is establishing co-operation with the local self-government and educational inspector. Why do I think it matters? Basically, he doesn't get in the way of some basic definition of the law. However, it gives a new quality, and this new quality is reflected in the establishment of a new channel of democratic passing of ideas and putting students in a position, meaning I'm talking about seventh and eighth grade students, putting them in a position that they can once during the mid-term and once a year, or as some other regulation determines, have direct contact with local self-government or with an educational inspector. What can be useful about that? The first thing, if this is accepted, is that I understand that from the context of the whole law one responsible relationship is being created with the state, because it creates direct contact between students and the state. On the other hand, you create the possibility for children in the seventh and eighth grade, that they may have certain deviations that they have come to the conclusion to pass on to the educational inspector to the local self-government. I really don't see the problem of having one, and it can be consulting meetings, I haven't entered the mechanism, because I don't think the law is the place to specify these mechanisms, we can leave it to the local self-government itself, but the point is that in seventh and eighth grade, students are already beginning to feel that they're part of local self-government, that they have certain contacts with the state, that they can be subjects, and not just be objects. I really think, if we accept it, then with understanding I can accept this amendment, because by accepting this amendment as an alternative to the previous one, where a responsible attitude towards the state creates an opportunity, indeed to students that, already in those years, in interactive co-operation with local self-government, on the one hand, they define attitudes towards local self-government. On the other hand, to really be corrective to certain activities of the educational inspector and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18899	Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm just going to read this point 1 in Article 68. The law – a student who is located more than 4 km away from school headquarters – has the right to free transport. My colleague Dusan Obradovic has submitted an amendment, in which he says – Article 68 of attitude 1 changes and reads: "A student of public, elementary, music or ballet schools, located over 2 km from the school seat, has the right to free transport". In an explanation – the distance from 4 km is too large, especially for lower-class students, taking into account the difficult economic situation in the country, this is a relief to parents in rural areas, and it is not a great burden on the budget. Transport is not regulated by the current law by local self-government, so children from 4 km away, living in the territory of the municipality, where music and ballet schools are located, have no right to compensation, which brings them into an unequal position, or reduces the possibility of education of that kind. The government's explanation says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System provides for funds to be provided in the local self-government unit budget for the transport of primary school students more than 4km from school headquarters. We know well that a set of new tax laws are seriously threatened by the maintenance of local self-government, especially in underdeveloped municipalities, from one I come from. What's more important is to say. It should be mentioned, except for my municipality of Kučevo, the rural environment around Leskovci, Vranja, then Sjenica, south of Serbia, where there are many students on foot. You only have 120 students in the Shop, mostly children from poor families. Another major problem to improve education, and it is in all studies, says that there has been an increase in the number of school dropouts at the fourth to fifth grade. I think that if we want to improve primary education, that it is necessary to accept this amendment and if the government is socially responsible, it should show.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18901	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just some reminders, according to some information, of this provision of four kilometers, even King Peter brought in 1929, and I think we need a more modern education and a more humane attitude towards children. The comparisons work only, imagine that you are a child in the village of Dučevići, Ovcara, and the first school is in Markovac at 4 km. If you're going to Lucan to buy a test for the entrance exam that's 8 km, then your schooling requires 12 km. Another comparison, imagine that you are a child from where Professor Stojkovic is from Vucje, you know how many children I saw on foot in Vucje, and when there were floods in the Shop. The municipality of Cicevic, in which the DS is in power with its coalition partners, solved the problem by driving all children. Cicevic did not measure, because there is DS, there is a small municipality, there are few children and it is easy to organize transport. Trade is a poor municipality, but there is one municipality, and I hope still in Serbia, and I'm still surprised that the patriotic parties didn't say anything about these municipalities, let's say Kosovo Vitina. You know the problem with Kosovo Vitina, taking the child to school for 2.5 km, because you have to walk past the home of the local KLA commander. Those five miles of KFOR can't guarantee security. If we want that people to stay there at KIM, I don't think the empty SNS benches can fight to improve those children, and that's why I think it's a good thing to be 2 km away from this set, no matter what the Law on Local Self-Government says, and how the local self-governments were preparing to transport these children. The criterion that children go 4 km in one direction to school is the 1929 criterion. If we really want to take care of children and their education, then we have to show one social responsibility to those children.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18903	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18904	I'd like to say a few words and stop these crocodile tears from causing a problem at the National Assembly. It may have been a solution made at the time of King Peter, but the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System was brought in 2009, when I was a minister in the government, where you did the congregation's majority and we could change it nicely then, so we wouldn't talk about it now. If we had changed that solution back then, there wouldn't be this many stories and taking care of the students on foot and on their problems, but it's also said that there's no money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18905	The word has Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18906	It's not good to have sex with me, because I spend a lot of time in the library, and in that library there are stenograms from that session, you know, an empty head can go to an empty library. (Sans of the SNS get Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: In the empty library. Well, you know, an empty head can go to an empty library, full head goes to a full library. (President: I ask the People's MPs not to receive from the post. So, and then we proposed this same amendment, we from the DS. The truth works, and then it's not accepted. So it's not about crocodile tears, it's just that we persist in our politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18907	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic, together with the MPs Gordana Komic and Maja Vidinović, and the MP of the people, Aleksandar Pejčić, submitted to the 68th amendment in the same text. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment, Natasa Vučković submitted a national letter. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk emissary, Jovana Mehandzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18908	Good afternoon. Dear Ministers, colleagues from the ministry, the President-in-Office, did not report on the amendment we submitted together by Professor Stojkovic, Professor Janko Veselinović and I, but that is why my colleague Natasa Vučković, who submitted the amendment in a slightly amended text, will try to explain that intensity, given that we have heard an explanation for not accepting the previous amendments. So, counterpart Natasa Vuckovic suggested that students of the first four classes of primary school be transported for the cost of the state, who live less than two kilometers away. So let me try to convince you that, at least for children who go to the rights of four grades of primary school, you accept this amendment and show good faith to meet, that at least you make one, let me say, transitional provision by the next moment, when there is more resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget for our youngest. So, I appeal once again to you to at least consider once again the acceptance of amendments in the amended text, i.e. the amendment proposed by the National MP Natasa Vučković, which is that for children who go to the rights of four classes of primary school you accept that the state bear the costs of transport for them who live less than two kilometers away. Since in two times neither 2009 nor now 20'3. We haven't had enough strength in years, or you didn't have enough power to provide in the budget money for all children living less than two kilometers away. So, that provision from 1929, we cut by 50%, from four kilometers to two kilometers, that at least now you find the strength, because I believe you have the will, but you lack the strength to convince the finance minister that in the budget and in the rebalancing that we have heard will be in this home most likely on July 1st, provide funds for children, I repeat, from the first to the fourth grade of primary school, who live more than two kilometers away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18909	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18910	I want to be a replica about...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18911	You have no right to a replica, you can use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18912	All right, from the time of the parliamentary group. I think it is extremely incorrect to discuss without having a basic knowledge of the way in which the education system is financed, out of no will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and at least the finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and even in matters of rebalancing, does not depend on financial coverage of these costs, because this is in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia's obligation of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18913	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18914	Short. As a man who worked for many years in both elementary and high school, in the middle of plain and hilly, etc., let me first say that I am surprised that the previous speaker mentions some patriotic parties. Right away, I don't think there's any sharing in this House of Patriots and non-patriotic, that we're all patriotic parties. This is a patriotic parliament, as it is in the Hungarian Patriot Parliament. Please don't divide us into patriotic and non-patriotic parties. Now, about this article, I think it makes sense. A previous fellow MP who proposed for children in the four-class primary school's rights for two kilometers means more than two kilometers to be transported. Imagine children in the hills, through the woods. That's where parents have to take their kids every day. I simply agree, what my fellow MP, the previous speaker before me, said that he might be bound by the law by local self-government, to allow such children to be transported free of charge. It's really in the first grade of elementary school, actually, it's hard to say at all that someone's not driving within three kilometers and four. Please, who's the one who's going to let his kid go through the woods in mountain-mounted areas, where kids are exposed to various kinds of savages out there, so he's threatening the safety of children. So maybe it would be good to recommend, if it doesn't commit the local community to providing children in the right four grades of primary school and this colleague who used to speak, I think it makes sense and that it is in some way the concern of the local community and the state in general about our children in a safe sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18915	Thank you. The word has Jovan Mehandzic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18916	Thank you. I just had a brief update on the funding of some of the responsibilities transferred to local self-government from the level of the republic. We are at a time when local self-government has so far been denied more than 200m euros in revenue and therefore cannot accept that I quote "elementary ignorance of the functioning system" that I was transferred to. So, and how well I know how to bring the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which competences transferred from the Republic to local self-government and what exactly is financed from the budget, i.e. from the state register at one level or another. Therefore, it would not be bad if the two resolution ministries sat down and agreed on what is most important for children from first to fourth grade, related to transport. I believe it can be one of the priorities of this country. So, take care of children who are seven, eight, nine and ten years of age in an adequate way, not perhaps in the middle necessarily which are urban, but pay attention to rural environments and, as someone here said, children who travel for miles through the woods in winter, night, day, etc. You live people in the reality that we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18917	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome in yours and in mys a group of students from New Belgrade, who are currently monitoring part of today's session at the grand hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. We're going back to work. The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18918	The Honorable Chairman, here is only in order to clarify certain matters relating to this amendment. I would like to point out that here the ministry, or the Assembly, adopts the law and the Ministry, proposes a way of transporting students. The correct solution is that it is about four kilometers [4 km]. Payments for transportation fees are done by local self-government and I do understand absolutely this way by my DS colleagues to reduce mileage to two, but this would seriously endanger local communities' budgets. If I were to tell you that a local community that has 10,000 students, at a monthly level, is being financed by a million dinar transport, probably reducing mileage to two kilometers would increase that by at least another million dinars in order to absolutely pose a major risk to local community budgets. Therefore, here the ministry prescribes, i.e. the government and we pass the law, and local self-government is paid out of their budgets. This is about the next one. We're not paying for the student hike, but we're paying for the four and more kilometers of transportation for the students where the transport is arranged. So I think it's a really correct solution by the ministry, and I suggest we accept it as offered in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18919	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 68th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18920	I hope the people of the ministry understood this amendment and the previous one, too, did not answer, but there are some measures and suggestions to prevent, among other things, early leaving students, or what is called in this law – silencing. I have no reason not to trust the minister that he failed to fight with the finance minister to get some larger funds for this purpose as well. I'm a little embarrassed when one of us says the ministry can't pay for walking. That's right. Unfortunately, in some areas of Serbia, we have no organised transportation at all, so students are forced to walk and much more than four kilometers. It would be good for local self-government to arrange transportation for these students. Responsible local self-governments try to solve this problem, whether it is more than four kilometers to participate in one part of the cost, are irresponsible, do not translate the money for half a year and do not meet their obligations. Col. Milivojevic reminded us of how relative a kilometer is and that students from Kosovo's Vitina must and travel for a lot longer than some other children. I think you all know that the Assembly has formed the Committee of Auditors to check how budgets have been spent in Kosovo and Metohija. I recommend, as they will stay for 33 days, that while they stay, they also see both children and their parents live in Kosovo and Vitina. When I talk about this, and there is a minister, I would like to ask a few questions about the school network and, in general, the educational system of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. First question - will these new laws also apply in educational institutions in Kosovo and Metohija? The second question - I assume that you are following these technical negotiations, that you are better acquainted with the consequences of the Brussels Agreement, do the creators of the Brussels Agreement view the educational system of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija as parallel?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18921	Mrs. Banovic, it is my duty to inform you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we can only talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18922	Okay. I'm talking about the subject. Is he seen as parallel, are we asked to now abolish the educational institutions of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija and what stamps will be on diplomas, books and student testimony? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18923	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18924	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this first question about the length of the journey from home to school, that is, the need for local self-government to help students on foot, and that is something that all parliamentary groups agree on. Absolutely, as yesterday there was the agreement of the parliamentary groups that the number of students in the department should be up to 25. I want you to know that in the draft of this law, we had foreseen this possibility, but we couldn't provide enough funding, or by the Ministry of Finance, we didn't get a positive opinion, given the financial possibilities of such funds that were to be delivered to local self-government. I want you to know that moment. He is disappointing to all of us and to me, but he's also a reality. Yesterday, I said that in addition to the demographic factor, it's very important to limit the conditions of development. Improving the quality of the education system is also an economic situation and can be in the future. Until the economic situation improves and there is more money, we need to look for solutions to the system in existing conditions. As far as the law enforcement issues are concerned, yes, it will apply in Kosovo and Metohija and the educational system has not been in any part of the talks in Brussels, nor has the issue of its functioning been raised so far, nor have any status or other changes. That's what I said to the University of Pristina's temporary head office in Kosovo Mitrovica, the rector, the rector's college and university deans three weeks ago when I was in Kosovo Mitrovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18925	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18926	The respected chairman, respected ministers, many local self-governments have made a decision not to pay for the transport of pensioners in the years 60, 65 and 70. I don't know why we can't make such a decision in local self-government that students of primary education drive free to school, regardless of the distance of pedestrians to school. In what way did we get the money to go up to pensioners, and we know that investment in children and science is always worth it? I think a solution should be found and local self-government sort of decides that these students are on foot in basic education free of charge. I don't see any reason why if one of the presidents of the municipality is running for the president of the municipality, he needs to know that he's got a lot of things waiting for him that are unpredictable. If he can't solve the problem of a student on foot, he shouldn't even be running for president of the municipality. I appeal that the students, no matter where they are, but with the parents' social card, if the parent is someone who has a big business, don't hesitate to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18927	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18928	Just for a little while, for the sake of complete seriousness and information in the debate on this important topic. You should understand that students are not pedestrians because they have no money, but because they do not have traffic infrastructure at a distance from school to home. So the problem is far more serious, and in a close relationship with the much more urgent topic of a network of primary schools in Serbia's territory, and should in this context be aware of what the colleague had previously talked about, in order to meet the reduction of the network of primary schools in order to reduce consumption from the government position, led at the same time to an enormous percentage increase in costs from the position of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18929	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The government and resolution committee did not accept the amendment of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's Parliament of Stefan Miladanovic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Miroljub Stojic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18930	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've reached national interrogations, so we might be able to pass this atmosphere these days that is happening with these unfortunate admission exams. For example, national studies in point 7. you say - the results of the national survey are used to assess the situation and progress of education in the Republic of Serbia, used by the Ministry and the local self-government and scientific institutions, etc., in accordance with the law. We thought that here we should add that the results of the national examination are public and now they serve everything that you have stated. In the explanation that I got, and I got an amazing mental motion manual, where you're telling me-- that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the explicit performance of the term "public," and that's the only difference between the text of the legislation and now it's still giving me advice. I'm sorry, I didn't read anywhere that I couldn't use one word to fix the text of the law. It's an amendment. And let me tell you, that little "public" word I wrote here implies something completely different. You in this article imply that the results of national studies will be dealt with by professionals, therefore, only the people who are these professions and who are interested in professional questioning. I imply that education is of public importance to the entire country. I imply that it is necessary for the public to really deal with the results of this. I'm implying that what's happening today with the admission exams, with breaking and entering admission exams, with a story about who's to blame, who's not to blame, whether the kids are guilty of buying tests, whether the educators are to blame if the ministry is wrong, whether the Minister of Agriculture is more guilty than the Minister of Education. So I imply that this is a public matter, a state matter of importance to the state of Serbia. Only so much that one little word differs from what you wrote. It is very important for me to accept in the state, in society, that education is this little link that society leads forward and that each of us should make little effort, every citizen's little effort, every family, regardless of its educational status, to fix it. That's what makes us different. Otherwise, because of these poor results in article 73, which we missed because we didn't want to waste too much time and it's about this, we predicted that a school that is two years old consecutively very bad results of the final exam have been supervised. It's a serious thing. You know, that's not how it's implicated here as -- there's bad results, no one's going to sign up. No, it's very important for the state of Serbia. He can't have a school two years in a row with results, he's got to get surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18931	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18932	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Article 75, defines this national interrogation. I also didn't want to react under article 73, because we, like DS when we were in the coalition, really voted for that final exam. Is there any need to speak of members 73 and 75 after this week's events? Is there at all a need to tell the citizens of Serbia, the parents who sent the children for the final exam and ask them – will any national interrogations be able to regain confidence in school? It says here the school, which, according to Mrs Vojic Markovic's amendment to article 73 and in relation to article 75, does not produce a result twice in getting a negative grade. What grade should be given to a state that has twice consecutively committed a scandal with a final exam of the prime minister or complete education? It's not good to keep this quiet. It's not good to pretend that the situation is absolutely normal, that everything is working properly and that even now, in this sublime atmosphere, we're adopting a law like this, without the answer of the authorities, what was really going on here. Again, I underline, the Law says – the school uses the results of the national survey to improve its development plan, school programme, professional training plan and teachers' advancements. How can school progress after what we had a few days ago? Tell me, what kind of progress is it when students buy solutions and questions for the final exam? How can society and the state we live in, if we have circumstances like this that no one answers, as if nothing happened? Everyone was worried about something, they asked the media, but we don't have answers. It's actually a model, a mantra that's been repeated since the election was stolen through those secret meetings with Luka Bojovic, where you now see children have passed exams from some purchased tests. We've all been shaken, we've all held press conferences, and the answers we've received are not, just announcements. I'll tell you in seven days who met with Luka Boyovic. I'll tell you in 15 days who stole the election. I'll tell you in three months who forged the admission exam. That's how we fight corruption in this country. That's the message you're sending us. We can't keep quiet about that message. We can't accept that. You must understand our indignation, but much more indignation of citizens, parents. You have to understand that we as DS cannot push our heads into the sand and seek political responsibility for this. Let criminal responsibility be determined by the prosecution, but something which implies political responsibility must be established in the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, no date will improve our mistrust in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18933	Mr. Jovanovic, did you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) I'm sorry, but before you checked in Mr. Marko Atlagic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18934	The President-in-Office, this member of 75th, is very important, especially the amendments of the MPs, Mrs Donka Banovic and Milice Vojic Markovic. I urge the Ministry to consider this amendment as well. The results of the national surveys are public and serve to assess the situation and progress of education in the Republic of Serbia and are used by the Ministry, the local self-government unit. Here it is added – educational and scientific institutions. That's very important. Why educational and scientific institutions? Because we, believe it or not, have a little distant scientific institutions, or departments of pedagogogogogy from the philosophy colleges of the Ministry, from the units, from the National Educational Council. Mr. Minister, I'm just going to give you an example. In school tours we received the Report, we Members of the National Educational Council for 2012. I'm one of those MPs who really reads everything he gets on his arm. Believe it or not, the National Educational Council has proposed for general education courses to study history for just one hour in three years and four years. I'd like to say two more sentences. I'll quote a Roman philosopher who said, quote, "Learn the history of your people, lest you be strangers in your own country." It's a finished quote. Or, in 1941, when the National Library of Serbia was bombed, it was first bombed and the main commander was asked - why destroy the past of the Serbian people? I ask the question – how are we going to find the outcomes of those we have left to strengthen identity, etc. Serbian people? What are these teaching subjects through which we will achieve these outcomes? I have to say, this in the history of pedagogy was not and they identified, the National Educational Council, the history of sociology. You sociologists know very well that sociology is part of modern history. Indeed, I urge this not to allow the destruction of the enlightenment that, I must say, has been systematically going on since 2000. I welcome the Ministry's results and objectives, but we need to ensure that there is an outcome, but with the current situation, we don't. I believe the Ministry has good intentions, because the former Ministry has actually put us back ten years in a position to general education, to reduce the number of classes to a minimum. Please, history has learned in the old century. Herodotje wrote the work of history, sociology is the science of the 19th century. Can't number a class here for one hour sociology, one history. I advocate and beg you to ensure this for the future of our children and for the future of the Serbian state, that history is studied from the fifth grade to the eighth, two hours a week, as well as in secondary schools in all classes of two hours. If two, at least one. Please, it's only scheduled for high school in one year. Don’t be angry, I have an expression I can’t use in the congregation, and in science I’d use it. What's the point of that? To make sure the kids don't know the past. Then it's easy to manipulate us as a nation. We're ruining our past. How are we going to list and view our past if we don't study it and for the sake of the future of our country? This is just one appeal to this concept of curricula and programs, not to allow neither the National Educational Council nor the Institute, but to engage the departments of pedagogy from the Faculty of Philosophy to engage. I think they're the most competent people and people in practice and theory. We've identified some items with traditional ones. Since ancient times, a number of classes that mean nothing to the future of our children. So, this is to be careful, and I think there's a reason to involve science institutions more in schools and connect them and that each one's research is for scientific purposes in terms of improving education and education. I'm sorry, I took a little more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18935	Minister Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18936	To tell the promoters that we have no problem accepting this amendment, we will only consult with the Commissioner for Public Information and inform you in the day to vote on it, and perhaps during the afternoon or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18937	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18938	Madam Chairman, I will report by amendment, although I felt it was well-founded to call here for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, given that through the amendment there is always an attempt to politicise the subject. It seems that everything the opposition MPs have done in the last two or three days is to politicise the topic through debate, including today's amendments. Indeed, I do not see anything controversial in the provisions of Article 73 and the provisions of Article 75 of the proposed law, given that these are systemic solutions which are completely clear, precise and logical and which in continuity represent one system trail which has been entirely identical in previous legal solutions. I don't see who else could bear the burden of responsibility other than those mentioned institutionally in the bill start with ministers and school directors, and who else could do it? Therefore, please, Madam Chairman, when discussing amendments, make sure that in any discussion, any discussion does not include what involves politicisation, calling for some alleged topical, tragic and tragic consequences. However, let us stick to the amendments and only in accordance with the amendment to conduct the discussion and thus contribute to the quality of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18939	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18940	I really don't understand, pal, what you're implying, because when we wrote the amendment, we couldn't know that the political situation, as you say, although I don't think this is a political situation but that this is the scandal of another species, this is how it is going to happen. We wrote it with the intention of fixing something. As far as systems and compositions are concerned, compare what we wrote in article 73 with what we wrote in article 75. We had a complete system and harmony, but we followed our thought and our idea. We suggested it and it's up to you to vote yes or no, but don't tell us we've predicted the situation. We may be psychic, but we're hiding it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18941	Mr. Milivoevich, you wanted a replica? If you want to follow the amendment, Nejko Jovanovic probably wanted a replica... If you want a replica, I'd give you my word right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18942	Replica. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present some information and observations. We may have been able to assume, on the basis of last year's experiences, that someone will try to fake these tests with highly corrupt activities this year and try to sell them to the students. But don't accuse us of trying to face political ideas. We're on the market for political ideas. We're not here to trade recipes for the donut princess. We are only here to defend our political attitudes, ideas and value systems not from those who attack us, from the authorities. We here defend those principles and systems of value that we stand for through our programmes, political action and through the way of political work. We will exclusively stand here for a system of values that is based on our political ideas. That might bother someone. There's someone who can see the politicisation or non-lithicization. The law criticises us from the aspect of the profession of experience and, above all, the desire to achieve the benefit of our society, but behind it is our political attitudes and political ideas that we do not deviate from. It's not any politicization. It is a wish that through parliament, the country's highest legislative institution, called the Republic of Serbia, we should also impose ideas and that system of values that we believe should be the basis for a European civilised state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18943	Neđa Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18944	It's not a replica. It's very short to avoid misunderstandings. Mrs. Vojić Markovic may have misunderstood that the remark was addressed to her. Absolutely not. On the basis of the last speech, it is clear why I reacted and why I felt that discussions should only be in the spirit of the quality of the amendments and the quality of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18945	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Komlenović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18946	This is not a particularly significant amendment. We wanted to clarify this attitude a little bit. It is about a member bearing the title – international interrogation and the first position – the school participates in international studies based on international agreements with the consent of the Ministry. It turns out this way that it is the school that has concluded international agreements, and we suggest that this is a different formula, i.e. with the agreement of the Ministry of Schools to participate in international studies based on international contracts signed by the Government. That's one explanation. Otherwise, there's a lot of criticism when it comes to research, research. Even some people go all the way to criticizing the Piz test. I think there are still several international studies, such as "Talis", "Tims" etc. I want to say my own opinion. I think it is very good that Serbia and that schools in Serbia, i.e. students, participate in such significant international research, because without these results and constant monitoring, as far as we are progressing or in some area, we really do not have the starting points, nor can we carry out reforms in some areas. I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18947	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th and the members of the 77th and 78th amendments, the MPs of the national parliaments, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović and Jovana Mehandzic, together submitted. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic, together submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18948	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is now terribly interesting this Chapter 8. – these are strike employees. Art. The 77th and 78ths refer to that. I listened very carefully to that argument that the minister read in those hour at the beginning of the session in principle, and I heard very well when you said that these two members were in this law just because no strike law was passed and that when the strike law was passed, those members would be amended, or they wouldn't be here. If I understand correctly, you know that this is not the material that should be found, or this matter is not regulated by this law. She's in line with some other laws, and she doesn't belong here. I don't see, I really don't see, that it was necessary to introduce members of the Basic Education Act relating to the employees' strike. I don't think they belong here and it's absolutely necessary to delete both Article 77 and Article 78. Why? If there is no strike law, which you are announcing, and it has been announced for a very long time, so there are some problems in the adoption and the public is very excited about it, the current Labour Act, the one that applies, regulates these issues for all workers, not just for educational workers, but for all workers in this country. So it's not clear to me why the educators are excluded, why are their rights in any other way regulated, but what are the rights of other workers in the strike law regulated? You can't regulate the Law of Fundamental Education because it's not a matter for your law. On the other hand, I understand that you had the need to regulate this because you are not satisfied with the solutions of the Labour Act and because you have a problem, because educational workers object to you both at the beginning of the year and at the mid-term and at the end of the year, but I apologize for the regularity of all the laws in the country, if that's how jurisdiction is going to interfere. I don't think he's in the right place and needs to be erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18949	MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18950	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I absolutely support my colleagues from the DSS. Constitutional principles regulate inter alia the right to strike. The right to strike is unimpeached and the Constitution guarantees the right. I know that we may not have the Labour Act and the Strike Law and we use federal laws of the non-existent state, but it's not good, because we know that this profession, the educational profession, is often shaken by strikes, that there are several unions within educational workers who try to point to a difficult material position every September. There is, of course, a certain politicization of these strikes. I don't argue with that at all. We had the opportunity to see that whenever it was necessary to rock the government to use certain strikes, certain professions, for political purposes. It is not good for one roof law, such as the Law on Education, to try, regardless of the need, to apply these constitutional principles and principles when it comes to this law, but to get into something that would be the right of strikers. I think the right of strike workers, guaranteed by the Constitution, must be guaranteed a right that no one can enter, not a minister, not the people of the ministry. I absolutely support the amendments submitted by my colleagues from the DSS. In the end, if you will, they will strike in this country and future and educational workers, but will protest and parents for what happened a few days ago, due to scandals over admission exams. There's, like, a compromised educational profession. There are endangered interests of our children. Let's not put this strike provision into the law. Let's all make the Labour Act together and the Strike Law, so let's put it on the Assembly's agenda, so when we get it, then let's amend the Basic Education Act and regulate these rights in accordance with the Strike Act. If this is how we try, it's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18951	The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18952	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand why these provisions would not enter the Law on Fundamental Education. This would be the same as saying that at the level of the state there is a general collective agreement, and that there should be no special collective agreements for certain industries because of the existence of a general collective contract. If there is any possibility that employees in the basic education system or in any other social activity or branch, in this way, get greater rights, that their rights are even better and better defined, this should be allowed. It's perfectly normal. In all developed countries, these regulations, which are defined in particular economic activities, are dominant than those that are roofed. The labour law and the strike law, which will be passed, no one knows when, because working groups are doing their job, represent only a framework, and special collective agreements and everything that represents a special relationship between the employer, in this case the state, and representatives of the employees in the education system should define their struggle to achieve greater rights, rather than what defines the roof law, which is in this case the Labour Act. This is the practice of all developed countries where, of course, in addition to legal regulatory working relations and all relations relating to socio-economic rights of employees go to the work of autonomous regulation, as well as specific collective agreements and specific situations and items defined by such specific laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18953	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18954	The Honorable Chairman, I advocate that he remain a member of 78 as he is, but perhaps it would be good to say why. (President: Mr. Atlagic, we are on Article 77. An amendment to Article 77, not to Article 78, which you mentioned. I'm sorry. I'm betting that the strike remains as a form, but with the mandatory minimum of the process of work. I believe that as many of us as there are here in the Assembly, regardless of the political parties, at least yesterday we agreed, we put in the middle of an education system of students. If we agree on that, then no strike can stop this process of work. When would they ask me, like a man who works from elementary school to university, when is there supposed to be a strike? I'll only be open under two conditions. To stop the process of work, which is the first condition when professors, teachers, teachers are not paid by a conditionally qualified worker, as well as in health, administration, police and military, then he makes sense. When school directors and administrations usurp teachers' rights. In no other sense do I see the purpose, because the budget is what it is, and we pay by paroled worker. I'm afraid, otherwise, you wouldn't go political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18955	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18956	A very important note, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitutional Court made a binding decision on 2 November 2012 that says - all employees have the right to strike. There were words, not about civil servants, but about police officers, a special service in the Republic of Serbia, but also about civil servants and police officers and state employees. The recommendation says everyone has the right to strike from 2 November 2012. It wouldn't be good if someone were to address the Constitutional Court now and that certain provisions of the law before the Constitutional Court were to fall. It then says that we are not good legislators and that we are making failures that may be the subject of later disputes. In this context, I believe that this possibility should also be considered and that the aprioriers should not reject criticism coming from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18957	Thank you. National MP Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18958	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18959	Anyone else want a word about the amendment to article 77? The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18960	Thank you. This is the second member talking about a strike of employees in this law. Conditions are prescribed, minimum work is prescribed for primary school employees. Not only have the unions objected, but simply when you read it, and you've been an MP for a long time, and you know that there are laws here that regulate many actions, and this is the only law where they are employed in some kind of action, where this is how they are prescribed a strike. What is even more dangerous is that, for example, in this Article 78, it seems to me to be attitude 4, to a teacher, or to an expert associate in breach of the obligation of these strike regulations, the measure of termination of employment, or the school director, may be handed down to the worker, based on these members of the law, is to be laid down. I don't like what they say only when they're enlightened and their strikes, when they're just stressed or the media turns it into that they're just protesting, strike for their wages and receipts very low and bad. That's what they are right now. However, somehow we always miss those other requirements that are mostly submitted to the ministry, which is that the overall situation or the state of education is improved, that schools have poorly equipped cabinets, that they lack learning, etc., professional training. So, it's not always just about the payoffs. I'm sorry that some colleagues here listed it that way, even if they work in education, but in another level of education, in which there have been no strikes for a long time. I remember that high-school institutions used to strike because they were unhappy, among other things, with pay and with their treatment. You haven't heard their voices in a long time. They're obviously particularly satisfied with their incomes, so you might notice some kind of solidarity and all those other levels of education without which they couldn't work. If the primary school, high school, is not high quality, if the teachers do not work there, among other things, and the level of receiving, but also all other things, I'm afraid the college colleagues will have no one to work with, or who to educate. Someone said that yesterday we talked about the fact that at the heart of all these laws there is absolutely a student – it is true, but it will be a successful education and education of students and pupils if the situation in that area is good and, among other things, those who work with these children are satisfied with the conditions and also the receipts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18961	Thank you. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18962	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, you may now see more clearly from this article 78 why the amendment of the DSS MP is justified, that the issue of strike is not treated by this law. In a sense, Article 78 threatens educational workers that if they strike in a way contrary to the way in which it is strictly prescribed here, the director may automatically fire them. If this is not seen as an open threat by educational workers, it cannot be interpreted differently. In that sense, if we haven't already passed the law, the roof law that defines the issue of strike and the rights of strike employees, which is a constitutionally guaranteed right, then it really makes a lot of sense to throw these provisions out now, because they certainly are the pressure of the executive authorities, as it is set up, the pressure of the executive authority on the employees of the education system. I don't think it was your intention, and I believe that you didn't want to threaten the employees in the education of this law, so they wouldn't think of rebelling because of the poor working conditions, because of the poor work, after all, and the ministry, perhaps because of the lack of responsibility of the ministry, because of the low wages, because of the poor organisation for which the executive authority is responsible. So, in this way, they're threatened not to think of crossing that line that this law has prescribed for them, because an automatic director can fire them. If we take this further as school directors are elected, who chooses school directors and to what extent the political influence exists in the selection of school directors, then we really come to another area that poses a serious danger to every kind of abuse, therefore, from rematch, from political rematch, etc. I think it's really reasonable to dismiss from this law the provisions that define the rights to strike because you're going to show that your intention wasn't to suppress the dissatisfaction of employees in education, which is what comes from these provisions. As it is read, it is only possible to read as an intention to prevent the lack of satisfaction of secular workers. I hope that wasn't really your goal and your intention, and if it isn't, then you'll accept amendments that will remove these provisions from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18963	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18964	The debate that is now being held is very important, and I fully support the amendments that my colleagues have submitted. I think, Mr. Minister, these are dangerous provisions in the law you've predicted. They're dangerous for a number of reasons. They are dangerous for the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about no strike law being passed. That's true, but the strike law exists. It was brought in in a previous period. The state of Serbia inherited it on the basis of a succession and it exists in our legal system. The strike law defines the conditions and the way in which the strike right is exercised in what is said, as defined by the law in Article 9 - works of general or public interest, where it belongs, among other things, and education, where the military belongs, where police are involved, where they include employees in the state administration. Now, based on the story that we don't have the law, and we have the law, you regulate in a very sensitive situation of law, not in this case, what Colundzija was saying, the rights of employees, but the rights of executives, how they're going to warn the organization of strikes. The consequences of this, if adopted, will be that in other actions of public interest, police, military, calling for this precedent, they will adopt their provisions to define these issues, including in the domain of the state administration, where large layoffs are announced, major pay cuts. Someone might want to stage a strike at the state administration and suspend the work of all institutions. These options exist, they can make such solutions. Please, while the Strike Act is in force, to apply the provisions relating to education, and if the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the judiciary adopts a new law and if adopted here, they will likely regulate how the strike will be organised in other actions. So, don't say we don't have the law, we have the law, the law exists, and it regulates how those rights in the realm of education are realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18965	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18966	Thank you to all MPs for their well-intentioned suggestions. I'd just like to remind you that this solution is not new, it exists for years, years ago and regulates both rights and obligations so that the education process can take place, nothing else. All other qualifications are objectively left with a way of interpreting this law. The process of education must continue, it must be maintained and we must keep in mind what the rights of employees are and what the obligations are. If someone adheres to their rights and obligations, there is no problem. The process of education must run, and the employees have not been denied the right to strike, on the contrary, these two members are regulating the issue. When the strike law is passed as one general act, and I remind you that the passing of that law has been going on for years, then there will be no room for these members here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18967	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18968	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we support an amendment that requires that this Article 78 be deleted. Of course we're against replacing the thesis and of course we're against actually having a rhetoric when this regulates the question of teacher's right to strike. Of course we are against the fact that responsibility is passed on to those who work in schools and, of course, we are against the fact that all these teachers, teachers and class teachers, who work so hard in schools, simply make it impossible for them to fight for their rights. You, Mr. Minister, are quite relaxed and relaxed and sit here for days in this House while there are huge scandals in schools, as well as your associates. So, you're here in full Parliament, and we're simply doing a virtual reality here, and we're talking about whether teachers, teachers should be allowed to strike. You express good wishes, exclude your responsibility and condition the possibility of resigning to prove and some of your potential responsibilities for everything that happens in relation to small graduation. What is it, if it's not virtual really? Of course you're responsible and of course the only answer you can give is to resign and nothing else. So it's the only way to start solving the huge problems that exist in education and education. I don't think there should be a dilemma about that. The strike of professors and teachers is a kind of exercise of their rights. We know very well how education is received, and we know very well how these benefits affect the quality of education, the quality of education and everything that is related to this educational profession. So, really the only way is to at least change your attitude towards teachers, teachers and teachers a little bit, to simply accept the amendment to delete this Article 78.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18969	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break and we're working on it at 1:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18970	We return to Amendment 78, registered under the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this amendment, I am in favour of the solution offered by the motionary, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, that the right to strike is limited and that the minimum process of work is respected. I believe it's very difficult for teachers and teachers to be in a very difficult position, but they need to understand that they share the country's difficult economic and social situation. I believe that, apart from teachers and students' parents, it's very difficult, I even believe that many of them are in a far more difficult position than teachers themselves. Many of them are unemployed, many of them are jobless, many of them work in companies, and where they have a fictitious job that their book is not certified, where they have no salary, where they work sausages, where they work without personal income, where their income is six months late, seven months, nine months, etc. Those parents certainly lost their jobs in perspective. So they should be watching the strike. The strike can be no matter what enlightenment he can be because of working conditions, can be due to personal income, he can also be due to the differences of professors with an educated programme, with a teaching programme, but the strike can also be political nature regardless of what is done in primary schools. Schools have a few dozen unions, so I don't know exactly how many unions, teachers, teachers, teachers, etc., but they're not all members of one union. Also, because they are not members of a union that unions can be close to political parties and can be used as teachers through trade unions can be used to strike unlimitedly without minimum labour processes and thus undermine a rival party, or another political party that does not like the one who dominates the union. This can also lead to inequality between students and parents. One school is not dominated by a union when you can strike without minimum work processes if these amendments are adopted. You can have a strike at one school in another you don't have to have it. Now this strike does not have a limited duration to last indefinitely, and this may lead to doubts that under equal conditions a reception test can be held these days. If an unlimited right of strike is allowed without minimum working process for 30 minutes, then there may be a situation where, say, students have to compensate for what you lost during the year, thanks to the fact that a particular union is in a particular school or in certain schools and strike, that students have to make up for it, and this raises the question whether, by June 18th or June 20th, this class will be completed at all by some date, and deadlines for enrolment in the high school to pass the admission exam expires. So, will these students be able at all if they are allowed to adopt this amendment if the strike is unlimited, whether these students will be able to approach with the completed -- let's say the eighth grade, whether they will be able to access the admission exam? Also, parents are not in any great situation, if this amendment is adopted, because they cannot plan annual holidays and some of their obligations, because they can never know if this right to strike is unlimited, they can never know when that school year will end exactly and how they will be able to make their time, because no one will travel on vacation, because he has to comply with his job, if he has a job and a job at all, he will find it difficult to plan some of his duties, some of his annual vacations, and he will find it difficult to travel, if his child is in primary school. So you can't expect your parents to leave your kid at school and go somewhere. So besides students and parents, they can have consequences. The right to strike is not disputed by educators, but the minimum work process must be maintained. What I support, this government proposal, for one more reason, which is teaching a continuous process, so it can't happen at breaks, at failures, for a month you've been working, and then two months you've been strikein'. The course must be continued, if the right to strike was defined differently, then it would not be good for me or for teachers, teachers, who plan their teaching process, nor is it good for students, nor for their parents. The right to strike is certainly not popular to limit, and I wonder what is with the right to strike students and parents, what if they are not satisfied with the conditions of a particular school, unless they are satisfied with the conditions under which education is being conducted, unless they are satisfied with certain human resources, teachers and teachers, they certainly have no right to suspend work, to interrupt that continuity in the lecture and continue. What parents don't have, they have teachers, but it's limited, it's a minimum process of work, and that's why I support what the government has proposed in this law and this amendment, regardless of how liberal I am and what I like to give people the right to strike, I can't, in this kind of economic situation in Serbia, vote for this kind of amendment, since this would lead to a series of negative consequences, especially for students, their parents, and I don't believe that teachers would be in a more favourable situation, because their strike could be politically misused, if not at this point in the nearer or further future. I also have to say that this would lead to the dissatisfaction of citizens who would certainly not be satisfied with the fact that the right to education is being extended, so the right to strike, and they themselves do not have the right to strike, but they do not have a job, and it is generally known that wages are in the public sector in Serbia, and that the public sector includes education, that they are more than 30%, but in private. I have to say that teachers and teachers have a hard time living and that it's not a great situation, but parents are even worse off and it can lead to certain animosities between parents, students, on the one hand, and their teachers and teachers, on the other hand. I believe that the government has made all this right and that I cannot accept this kind of amendment, because it would complicate a difficult situation in basic education, which I believe will be better, but it will be very difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18972	The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojić Markovic, a replica, but please sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18973	I really don't understand where my colleague Risticevic found this in our amendment. This has nothing to do with our amendment, which he said. I understand he's trying to tell the public some things, but don't make it up like that in our amendment. The amendment that we have submitted concerns exactly the respect of the laws of this country that already exist, the Labour Act and the Strike Act, and they actually regulate the minimum educational process. No one is asking for more of the right to strike for education, but only to respect the minimum rights that apply to all workers, so that story has nothing to do with what we are talking about, nor is it the promoter, or Mrs. Banovic and I asked to stop the process of teaching. I'm sorry, please, it's really funny to say that, it's really funny. It's nowhere in the world that you try to impute someone who wants to defend the fundamental constitutional right of every citizen of this country, it's a right to strike. It's regulated by other laws, so we get him out of here, that's what we're saying, and that's what the amendment says, so I'm asking my colleagues to read when they need to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18974	The word is Marijan Rističević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18975	Maybe I don't belong to enough writing people, but what I read from the government's explanation is what I was saying. So, if you delete the proposal by amendment the specific type of strike has teachers. If you put it in a situation that it's the same thing to strike metals and strike teachers, then it's not good for the teaching process, that's what I've been talking about, and I think their amendment balances all the rights of employees on strike, so teachers don't have to differ from other categories of employees. The government, whose views I have respected and said that I cannot vote, has said the same, and said that the amendment is not accepted because the strike at school can have inconspicuous consequences for the education of young people, as well as for the specificity of educational institutions and the need to, in a special way, adapt to the activities carried out by institutions in the field of education, settle this issue. It is particularly important to regulate in a special way the question of the minimum working process, which has been done to those members. I defended the government's views. If, because of my careful reading of the government's argument, which is why this amendment is being rejected, and I am not of those who believe blindly, at least in the work that I have done so far, MPs have been able to convince themselves of the government's opinion, but this time I have respected and cited the reasons why I, looking at the situation in school, respected the government's position and this opinion that the amendment is being rejected. If, for the sake of reading the Government's position on this amendment, I was underwritten, even if I tried to be oral and to explain it in some way that the viewers understood me. I apologize to those who have read their amendment, have not read the opinion and reasoning of the Government, which, in a similar way, are slightly more precise than I did, limit the right to strike for employees working in educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18976	According to the amendment, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18977	Let me get this straight. I agree that you're reading the argument of the government, I've read it and I don't agree at all, and I'm telling you that I'm absolutely right, because this matter is regulated by another law and it can't be regulated here, that's how and here are the people of the union, so let them tell you from union officials dealing with the Labour Act, and you know it just as well. All workers have the same rights. Some of the other laws specific to areas cannot be excluded, which workers have more rights, which are less. They all have the same rights, and that's what we ask to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18978	The word has Miletic Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18979	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, in fact, the SPS Group of MPs, I need to present our view of this issue which has been regulated here in the draft law, Articles 77 and 78. We believe that the proposed solution should remain, however, because it often leaves out certain provisions in one particular law, if they are not stressed, leaves the possibility for different interpretations, if they are regulated by some other laws, especially as this is about not being passed by some new strike law that should only regulate these issues. So when we talk about the universal right of citizens to strike, it does not mean equal rights to strike, because it depends on actions that are more or less of an interest to the state of Serbia or on the general interest to the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of our country. So it can't be observed in the same way, a real strike in the military, in the police, in health care, in education, etc. That is why there is also the category of the minimum process of work, which is introduced and which is significant and which does not only appear in this area, in this activity, but also in other ways and with different levels of fulfillment, because the minimum process of work must ensure the safety of citizens, material goods and general other interests, in this case both students and parents. Any other liberalisation of this issue or the thesis to bring it to an equal level of law, regardless of the type of action, leaves a broad possibility for anarchy, I would say even destruction in individual situations and for politicisation. That was enough in 1999, 2000, etc., where the most damaging of these were the students. I speak with full right about this, because I am from that mile an educational worker, who worked at school and as a teacher and as a director and I know well what manipulations are possible and what inconceivable serious consequences are possible if we do not define that question in the same way. So, if someone thinks that a 30-minute strike doesn't accomplish anything, then we practically advocate the thesis that we can introduce that 30-minute time frame into the educational-experience process in schools, and that this 30-minute time frame, and that the duration that's since Komensky exists as a 45-minute measure, we should be innovating through a new perimeter. Of course 30 minutes isn't enough and of course it is a minimum. And of course that minimum should be replaced after a strike through a program delivered by the strike board. To question this strike provision in a broader context with the choice of directors, which was here in the debate on this amendment, and it was mentioned yesterday in another context, I really cannot accept because the provision on the selection of directors is not a new provision. It was established in the former Law on the founding of an education and education system. It was repeated in 2009, when a new one was passed, now the current law on the foundations of the education system. I am not saying, perhaps that way of choosing a director has certain shortcomings, but me and us in the SPS are not known to be different, in a better way to settle the election issue of the director, without being politicised or for the purpose of what is the political interest of the party in power in the local or the Republic. So the tripartite principle, where there are three thirds, three parts of the school board, participate equally in what decisions are made on the school board. Political interests can be achieved through representatives of the social community, which are three members, and being representatives of parents or teachers, can also be influenced by certain policies, but of course in an indirect way. You know how in one political environment it's impossible to single out and put it under some glass bell, and of course another moment where the collective is, or the teacher's larger participation in the selection of directors is an important category. So the current minister wasn't trying to change that member. He left it as that solution was offered in the earlier period when other ministers who now advocated it were actually wrong. The minister does not elect a director only one option has been left for the minister to react in the extreme situation when the school comes to a situation of powerlessness or other irregularities. So, to conclude with the conclusion that, of course, you should take care of what is an interest in education and that is not at all controversial. But the way to express my dissatisfaction through establishing the minimum working process for this area is enough and we must, in the end, end up taking care of other interests. Not only the interests of employees, especially in the interests of students, parents and the social community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18980	The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18981	Thank you. Since we're still talking about this amendment, I'd like a replica. I must admit that I have a better opinion of Serbia's educational workers still think that they represent if not the best, then the better part of our society and what they have shown for years that they cannot fall into the irresponsible behavior that the colleague explained, even if it can happen that parents can't go on vacation because of some long full strike, etc. So I understand that in theory it may be possible, but in practice they really didn't show up like that. What we are contesting is that educational workers are separated from the group of all other workers and practically abolishing their right to a real strike. By introducing this minimal process of work that existed in the second, previous laws, but since this is a completely new law, we could have erased it. We, meanwhile, adopted many international conventions between the other and the International Labour Organisation and believed or not such a provision when it comes to educators there is only in Montenegrin laws that define education. So, this and those international conventions that we as Parliament have often ratified, it is also being violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18982	We are moving to Article 79 of the amendment, together with the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 80th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 84th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 85th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18983	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 85 refers to the way the records are collected and you say it's two types of data. The first documents were issued by the competent authorities, the second is the documentation provided by parents, or the guardians of the students. In Section 2, you say that these data are processed in accordance with the laws, but you're not talking about the fact that you're still dealing with that data. Do they guard themselves, after how long they are destroyed, and how they are kept? I remind you of a number of affairs that have occurred precisely because it was not a regulated way of keeping the data that is being delivered and these are primarily the data relating to the part where parents gave information about their family matters, about their personal data, and I remind you only of that affair with the "Bus Plus" cards where a bunch of school data has been spilling unauthorized into some other people who are not in charge of the law to take care of that data. These are very sensitive areas. Really very sensitive areas. We've talked more than once about how data is stored. Our amendment is now not to get into big issues, because I see here everything that comes from this parliamentary group turns into what it isn't. So all we're talking about here is how to store that data and we think we need to regulate a way to also keep them in line with the law. The law provides for a way to store these data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18984	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18985	My colleague Vojić Markovic, to inform you, may not have done so during the debate in principle, that we have brought all the provisions of the law relating to the record in line with the Commissioner for Information of public importance. He insisted that no provision of this law, not a single member of this law relating to the records, should I say the content of the law, that they do not give their positive opinion on it. That's what we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18986	Thank you. The 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Mehandzic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk emissary, Jovana Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18987	Dear Ministers, the President-in-Office, I have proposed by this amendment another form of record keeping, i.e. opening the possibility that some schools that have the will and means and ways to do so can keep records through an electronic journal. Of course, all in agreement with the positive legislative regulation, security protocols for the storage of personal data, given that it is a category of children and of course, respecting the opinion of the Commissioner for Information on this subject. This solution brings us into harmony with the modern world we live in. This possibility of schools being able to keep an electronic diary opens up the possibility of more quickly and better informing parents about how their children progress at school and whether they attend regular classes, and not having to be physically present at consultations with the teachers, class elders, or teachers and teachers in question. My proposed amendment does not impose any kind of obligation on anyone who has a role in education in our country, but only opens up the possibility that if there are opportunities and resources, in some schools where this is reality, this concept of keeping records can be achieved, of course all in accordance with laws that regulate the protection of personal data and positive legislation. In the explanation you gave me when you rejected this amendment, you stated that the provision was already legal for the regulation of such a position, including the names and methods of keeping a record. Therefore, if this substance is not subject to the regulation of the bill, it will be governed by a sublegal act. I would then like to take this opportunity to appeal to you that in a sublegal act that you bring about keeping records and keeping records, you should explicitly state the possibility of keeping records through an electronic journal. It is written in such detail that it leaves no possibility of ambiguous interpretation, because in practice where such solutions exist and where they are organised very professionally and highly professionally in some schools, with cooperation with local self-government it has proved to be an extraordinary good solution. Especially for parents and family, and thus indirectly for a student, or teacher, who is concerned. This also obliges the teaching staff and parents to become even more involved in the educational process, to better, easier, and faster monitor the development of their child, without perhaps needing the time needed in case such a tool and mechanism did not exist. So, in due course, since you leave this law for two years to pass sublegal acts, which I think is an extremely long period for the application of this law, for the start of the application of this law, I will address the assistant minister of education, who oversees this part of education, and I will ask him and remind him that in sublegal acts that are relevant for regulation and keeping records include and prescribes the possibility of keeping an electronic diary in those environments where possible, where this can be a higher standard than in other environments where this is unfortunately not the case. To repeat one principled position, which is that where there is a possibility and where reality is such that we can raise standards of education that we can do by introducing additional mechanisms through information techniques and technologies, and where it is not possible to ensure that the minimum standards and civilized conditions in which children learn from orderly toilets and classrooms and roofs that do not leak, to raise standards and where they are low, and where there is the possibility that they are really high and at an envious level and where we can be in those environments that allow it at European level to really do so, and not to give us an excuse of how it is in practice that it simply does not exist in the law and that our hands are tied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18988	By amendment, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18989	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for you, mostly these empty benches of the majority of the headquarters, to tell me only one thing about this amendment and this law – what urgent procedure if you leave two years to pass the sublaws? Then why do we pass the law by an emergency procedure when it takes two years to settle this same law? Then at least don't do an emergency procedure. Say, "We're only in a bit of a hurry, but we're not in a bit of a hurry, because if you leave it to edit some law for two years, then there's actually no reason for an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18990	Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 88th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Jovicki. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18991	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, article 89 refers to public documents and based on the data included in school records issue of the following public documents – student books, translators and testimonies about the completed class of the first cycle for students who go abroad and for adults. This is absolutely not disputed until the 7th position in which you say – the content of the forms of public documents is prescribed by the minister and approved by their publication. It's an unusual provision. We have responded that there is no need to stand there because we think it is enough to write – the content of the form of public documents is prescribed by the minister. There's absolutely no need for this. What is, I don't know what to call it anymore because for two days I've been talking about it, the explanation says this - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the explanation of the amendment cannot conclude what the amendment requires. Let me be clear, because it's pointless. It really doesn't contribute to anything. What does it contribute to the minister's approval of the releases he has already prescribed, the content of the form? It's a natural course of things when they're betrayed, how they're betrayed, and everything else. I really don't understand the need to complicate simple things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18992	Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted the amendments to Article 96. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18993	Article 96 is contained in Chapter 10, and this is the recognition of foreign school documents and Article 96 speaks of this procedure, i.e. in the procedure of recognition of foreign school documents, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act shall be applied unless otherwise governed by this law. It is further said that the ministry compares school papers. It shall be established whether additional tests are needed or if programmes are similar or identical, etc. Then you say, in one place, that's what we're changing, that the ministry can determine the exams and verify the knowledge from this position entrusted to a special commission in the ministry, and our change is going in that direction that we believe that the ministry should immediately form such a commission. She'll either have a job or she won't, but you'll know who the people in the ministry are in charge of it. Now, if you leave that behind, I know that in practice people face problems, they send documents to the wrong sector, it takes a long time to check it out, but not so much about basics as about other documents. I don't think it costs the ministry anything to know exactly which ministry experts are in charge of this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18994	Mr. Miodrag Stojkovic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18995	Thank you, Mr. President. I join Mrs. Donki Banovic that this is a very important part of this Law on Fundamental Education, especially that part relating to the recognition of foreign school documents, because we know, I have to use that unpopular term, that 40% of the Serbian Corps lives abroad. When we put as much paper as it is in millions, you'll easily figure out how many of our children from this country actually live abroad. It is very well regulated that you have put all the criteria on the recognition of these school documents and on the site of the ministry says that one of the criteria should be also a student's bookbook or confirmation of attending an additional course in Serbian in countries where it is organised. That's very nice. In practice, this is not because the government has allocated funds for 3,750 children living abroad for Germany, France, Belgium, Switzerland, Denmark, Greece. You know for a fact that one diaspora in Chicago probably has more children than all these countries. I think there is a failure in how to support the care of Serbian tradition, especially the care of Serbian because those children when they return here and we want to return, should be included in this system of education, integrate, but if they are not helped to rule the Serbian language, how will they then integrate into school?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18996	On Article 98, the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18997	Article 98 also regulates the recognition solution. Of course, we're talking about these foreign school papers, and here you're talking about the deadlines being very short, i.e. for you. For those of you who need to get this recognition of foreign diploma, he practically spends a lot of time and can't achieve it. We offer that the solution must be made within 60 days. Since this is a law on basic education, we've been counting on summer vacations, as long as it takes for the student to come, and if he doesn't come, 60 days is some normal time for this solution to be made, as far as you're concerned, and that he still achieves this kind of program that he's going to attend in the meantime. We think there are a lot of problems in terms of regulation of this issue. That's why procedures need to be accelerated. I know that here in response, which is more of the "Dear Council" of these amendments that we have submitted, you refer me to all sorts of things, now you refer me to the general administrative procedure. I warn you that this general administrative procedure, as far as many people and their children are concerned, waiting to get the results of your solution, lasts for several years. I think it's very important. I'm speaking public listening information that was here in the Assembly. There were children who were dealing with this problem. I honestly warn you that this is an optimal solution and that you should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18998	Members of the 101st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u18999	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, MPs, member 101. The proposal for a law on basic education and training refers to the entrustment of matters of the State administration of the AP. This proposed that giving consent to conduct bilingual teaching on the territory of the AP Vojvodina be entrusted to the AP Vojvodina, taking into account the already existing projects in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, as well as better, more efficient communication with various institutions in the territory of the northern province. We think it's more celery to trust the execution of these jobs to the AP Vojvodina. Since this is our last amendment to this bill, you will allow me to sum up. The SVM parliamentary group submitted six amendments to the proposal for a law on basic education and education and to the next draft law, whose debate should be started. The amendments are very similar. I'd really like to sum it up very briefly. I'll use the MP's time. Mr. Minister, let me ask you once again, to appeal, since our first amendment was to Article 12, he was referring to bilingual education and we literally rewritten what was in the previous law, and your explanation was that you did not want to accept that amendment because it was not in accordance with the roof law. However, these solutions are just from the previous version of the law. Our second amendment, which concerns Article 14, concerns founding rights. The amendment, Mr. Minister, stressed, that is, its essence was accepted by the roof law. We do not understand why this bill, which specifically mentions the criteria of dividing schools into public and private, lists the founders of public schools. If the Republic of Serbia, AP, local self-government, why can national councils of national minorities not be added among the founders? The third amendment to Article 15, related to school networks, is also very logical. You refer to the criteria that should be taken into account when forming or designing a network of schools. We have stressed that we believe, as it is in accordance with the Constitution and in the spirit of all these draft laws, that it is necessary to take as a criterion the possibility of obtaining education and education in the native language. Yesterday afternoon we talked about the next amendment to Article 30, which concerns the consent of you, the Ministry of Education, to departments with a number of students under 15. It would be realistic and would provide legal certainty for those students, for those departments if consent were valid for the entire first cycle of education. So, from 1st to 4th grade. Today we discussed the possibility of selecting the native language with elements of national culture as an electoral object and two other electoral items for members of national minorities, as well as for majority students, if I may say so. Of course, the last amendment, which I have just explained, is that we suggest that giving consent to conduct bilingual teaching on the territory of the AP Vojvodina be a entrusted job to the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19000	On Article 102, the amendment with the correction was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19001	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, my duty as representative of the socially endangered community in this House has been to submit this amendment for two reasons. One reason is to express in this way the unquestionable support of your idea, which you have shown in article 44, which is the idea that the school in collaboration with the competent institutions should take care of social protection. In this respect, in the criminal provisions of this law, we also impose appropriate sanctions on those schools that do not comply with Article 44. I made one mistake here when I submitted the amendment. However, that error is now corrected. It's a language mistake. This first position is – unless the school cares about the social protection of students at school, in accordance with the provisions of this law, so Article 44, the school will be punished. That's how you just support your idea that's already been defined in article 44. The second part of the amendment refers to the obligation of the family. If the family, the school takes care of social security, doesn't allow the child to go to school, to be severely punished. There is one drastic difference between the Law on the Fundamentals of Education and this Law. It's two types of inaction by the family. One type of indemnity is when the state doesn't support that family and not give it certain support to send its child. It's regulated by the Law on Fundamental Education and there's a fine of five to 25 thousand. However, it is much harder to punish the family if the situation arises for the state to help the family, to help the family in spite of the state's help and help the school, in addition to the activities of all social factors to enable the child from a socially vulnerable group to attend school, and the family continues to prevent that child from attending school. It's a special case. We have two situations. One situation is when a family has no doubt an obligation to enroll a child in school and to school him without any help. That's where I agree with that 25 grand fine. However, it is an even bigger mistake for parents if all the factors, and today we are witnessing the situation that all the factors around are trying both pedagogical assistants and schools and NGOs, so we all influence it, but some parents are more important to buy a pack of cigarettes or something else or drink a bottle of beer than actually send their child to school. Our obligation is, as a representative of the Roma Party, to submit this amendment for very simple reasons. We want to thus give support to the state to carry out rigorous measures against all those who do not enroll their children in schools and do not allow them to attend classes. It is simply the basic key that we really do this by bringing out members of socially endangered poverty categories. If we don't do it, then we have serious problems. I can accept that there are certain reasons why this member is not adopted, but we just want to give you support, that perhaps even at times when you didn't want to accept it, maybe so it wouldn't be misread, in this way to support these ideas and that you can simply say that you have the support of that community, that all irresponsible parents once have to behave differently and that it's our common concern. Maybe it's an unpopular measure, especially an unpopular measure for us addressing that electoral body, but in the long run, it's these kids who are going to have benefits, and that's what we care about, that these kids are really in a better situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19002	Thank you. On Article 104 of the amendment, MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19003	As someone said, this law is in the Assembly by emergency procedure, then given two years as a deadline for making, or passing sublegal acts under this law. So we think that deadline is too long. We have suggested that in this attitude the words "two years" change in the words "one year". I even think we've been tolerant. In a year, it's no problem to bring in a sublegal act, although there are a lot of them, but it's not the minister himself, it's the sectors and services that do it. When I look at the next amendment, where my colleague suggested an even shorter deadline, I'm thinking, maybe I was wrong, maybe I should've backed up or supported her only amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19004	The amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Mehandzic to Article 104. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19005	I'll be very brief. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, yes, I have proposed that the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts actually be reduced four times, therefore, that by two years it should be reduced to six months. You've given me an explanation that you provide enough time to make comprehensive and comprehensive solutions with this deadline. I was hoping that by law, you'd explored all the details that should be taken into account when the law was passed and that you'd have predicted that it would be much less time for you to pass a sublegal act, which doesn't rule out two years, but it gives you at the Ministry a chance not to apply this law in practice for two years, which I think is too long. Because, if we got, as MPs, this law by emergency procedure is being considered by day, then I thought it was quite reasonable that you have investigated all the implications of this law and all the details and that you are able and competent enough to do this series of sublegal acts within six months and allow for a faster and better application of your own law in practice, which is ultimately the goal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19006	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to amendments to the proposal for a law on secondary education and education. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs of DSS, SPI and DHSS, URS, DS, SMV, LDP, LSV, SPS, SDPS and Together for Serbia, as well as amendments to the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. You have received a report from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that by written amendment they withdrew: Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić to Article 26, who jointly submitted on 10 June 2013, Olena Pauga to Article 26, and to Article 26, paragraph 4, which was submitted on 11 June 2013, and Karolj Cizik to Article 5, which submitted on 10 June 2013. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19007	As in the previous law and here we dispute that the subject of regulation and of this law governing secondary education, that there is at all going into the setting up of strike employees in high schools. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments that we have made in support of the fact that there is no need for the High Education Act to prescribe how a school employee should or may be able to exercise the universal right of any employee, which is the right to strike. Again, I note that only in the laws of Montenegro regulates the issue of education laws, that all conventions are violated and that there is a general labour law that regulates the issue and I see no reason why employees in secondary schools and through this law stand out from all other employees in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19008	Thank you. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19009	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, he's gone, I'm sorry, my sun is shining, and I don't see a man sitting there, and I say hello. It's here, I'm sorry, please. Article 2 refers to the objectives and general outcomes of secondary education and education. Now you're citing these goals and outcomes, but you're forgetting some, and I was saying that when we talked about the goals and the outcome of basic education, it's environmental protection. We believe that a new indent 5 should be introduced, and it should read as follows: "development of awareness of environmental protection and rational tampering of natural resources;". Why do we think that? First of all, it's one of the outcomes of primary education, why should we ignore it now? What we've accomplished, now let's forget it. I guess we're developing what we've achieved at some level, and we're not forgetting. It means we've had too much of it, if we don't need it anymore. Furthermore, the modern world no longer exists without awareness of the protection of the environment and of the rational use of natural resources. There's no more of that world. If we want to educate generations for the 21st century, then we really need to teach them how important it is to know what environmental protection means for all of us and how important it is to spend our natural resources rationally because today, in the world, many conquerive wars are being fought right now, not because of the territories, but because of the natural resources that are disappearing. I believe this indent is fully in line with the law that you represent here. In indent 7, we felt that it should read as follows: "the respect of racial, national, cultural, language, religious, gender, gender and adult equality", because it further means what you have stated, tolerance and respect for diversity. It's just that sometimes it seems to me that from the accumulation of words, from definitions, we lose the essence. The front of your 7th indent means exactly what you've tried to put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19010	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The Government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19011	Thank you. I, Mr. Chairman, hear you very badly. It's important that you hear me. In Article 2, we propose to add another objective or general outcome of secondary education and education, and that there be – the development of personal and national identity, the development of awareness and sense of belonging to the state of Serbia, the care of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters and their language and letters, traditions and cultures of the Serb people, national minorities and ethnic communities, respect and preservation of national and world cultural heritage. In response, I did know that this is also in the roof law, as one of the goals, that is, the outcome, but I think we have a lot of these goals, outcomes in the country, and I think this could be both the goal and the outcome of secondary education.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19012	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19013	Dear fellow Members of the People, this member defines the specific objectives of secondary education and education, the objectives of education and education contained in the Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational System of Point 14 which reads – the formation of attitudes, beliefs and systems of values, the development of personal and national identity, the development of awareness of belonging to the state of Serbia, respect and respect for the Serbian language and its language, traditions and cultures of the Serb people, national minorities, ethical communities and other peoples, the development of multiculturalism, respect and preservation of national and world cultural heritage. For this reason, we have not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19014	The word has Donka Banovic, a folk MP, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19015	Thank you, Mr. Minister, but obviously you haven't listened to my explanation. I did, and I know it's, in part, and I've copied it from the roof law and I've put it as one of the special objectives of the outcome of this middle education law. I'm stressing again, I think we've all been hit by many of these goals together in this country. Some outcomes are very difficult for us, and I believe that in every law on education we should have these goals and outcomes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19016	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Olgica Batic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19017	Dear Chairman, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I asked the above-mentioned amendment to add a new Article 3a, which would regulate the obligation of secondary education, as well as the availability and freeness of secondary education. With part of the reasons why such an amendment is not accepted, they can agree, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes, in Article 71, only compulsory education, and then with that same attitude 2 provides for free secondary education, and the next member provides for equal access to higher school education. In fact, it turns out that due to the poor constitutional provision, a good amendment cannot be accepted, and I don't know how high school education can be achieved by skipping the obligation of secondary education. I must further point out that I have seen that this is exactly the attitude that I have expressed in the amendment, I have also coincided with the request of the Union of Educational Workers of Serbia, which they have just quoted as saying -- statistics say that in Serbia, every year six to seven thousand students who finish primary school are not enrolled in high school, and when high school is mandatory, it would mean 200 departments more and more than 400 executives. I think that this would just be the reason for the adoption of such a submitted amendment, and as an additional reason for its adoption, it could be stated that this would result in a desire to actually comply with European standards. If we are not alone, then we are among the only countries in the world that do not foresee mandatory secondary education. It's a fact that everyone should keep in mind. We have talked several times in the debate about that miserable percentage of high education and the fact that the number of illiterate in the country of Serbia, unfortunately, which is both devastating and embarrassing, is being measured by millions. Since I already stated yesterday that all of these legislative proposals were going to emulate the established Education Development Strategy in Serbia, I do not know why this issue would be a precedent, except for this constitutional provision, which represents so-called. a brake for the adoption of the amendment. But when we talk about the said Education Strategy, there is a decadent obligation of secondary education, and the minister himself and supported it in this strategy. Now the obligation of secondary education, when proposed by the amendment, cannot be incorporated, because it is actually the opposite of the constitutional provision. Now I have a question for the minister. So you don't secretly hope to change the Constitution? Yeah? Okay. Thanks for the answer. Also, as far as this amendment is concerned, I must mention the following facts. First, when it comes to secondary education and education, which is precisely about the strategy of achieving all the visions mentioned there, policies, actions and measures, on page 75, after I have read the Strategy in detail, you are talking about the quality of work, and so it is said – by providing high quality education in high school and secondary art schools is a basic condition for fulfilling the mission of the strategy in the Republic of Serbia. I think that this condition has one prerequisite, which is that in the future there would actually be a high quality of education, right in high schools, as in the established strategy on education and speech development, it must first introduce its obligation. I think that without this precondition, which actually represents the content of my amendment, there is no realisation of the vision of the necessary and feasible state of education, as foreseen by the 2020 Strategy, nor of the strategic objectives. I will again quote this, of course, from the strategy – coverage, quality of efficiency and relevance, which is explained in more detail on the pages 88 and 89 of the above Strategy. Of course, I will not ask for this amendment to be adopted, since the constitutional provision, in fact, Article 71, as a poor constitutional provision, makes it impossible for a good amendment, which would provide for the obligation of secondary education to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19018	Thank you. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from the People's Messenger Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19019	Ladies and gentlemen, a whole series of amendments to this law, as an authorised representative of the URS parliamentary group on this agenda, I have submitted in close co-operation with the National Disabilities Organization. The united regions of Serbia, and otherwise in their political programme and practical functioning, work closely with numerous NGOs of this kind, and are also known in the wider public and joint activists, such as Mr Milan Stosic or Kragujevac President of the Youth Forum with Disabilities, Mr. Vlad Markovic, which points to a special commitment to the policy issue of articulation of real demands and the need of people with disabilities and their organisations. The issue of people with disabilities in our culture is a huge progress in relation to the past that needs to be remembered just because it is overcome and has to serve as a reminder, and it represents only one of the possible types of perfided insensitivity to the problem of people with disabilities. It is the insensitivity that stems from the difficult forms of life, forced communities, for example, burdened by hard work, where even the presence of disability can be seen as a privilege of absent from participation in the difficult conditions of the community. Examples are the most drastic conditions of survival in our village once upon a time. Hence and date many prejudices and stereotypes related to the relationship to this Corps problem, but this is mostly the past of our society which has made significant progress in treating this Corps issue. However, this does not mean that we do not meet with a new kind of perfidence, insensitivity towards the problems of persons with disabilities, and this perfidence is manifested as a valid, hypocritical hypersensitivity to this corpus of questions, which is expressed in rhetorical hypersensitivity and paradificance and very often ends up at a declarative level, which is a very dangerous strategy to conceal the reality of the problem of persons with disabilities, which, as such, must first be seen, felt, respected, and then responsibly put forth the necessary efforts of the entire community to remove all those obstacles that are being addressed by these many problems. In that sense, the United Regions of Serbia are calling for the general public and this act, by investing this whole series of amendments that I am collectively talking about, that I would not speak of each individual unless it is urgently necessary, not only to accept, with full attention, the issues of students' difficulties with development and persons with disabilities, but to recognize these problems as real in our world, which these persons share with us fully evenly, as our common world and who have equal rights, just like each of us. In that sense, the obvious examples of good practice of the United Regions of Serbia are reflected where we have the opportunity to influence reality. As a sociologist who has left a trail in this business, not only has Slavica Saviljić made a social protection system in the town of Kragujevac, but also is recommended as an expert consultant for many of the services which I leave behind, as well as for the end, dear Mrs Gordana Rajkov, who was actually directly engaged in the final creation of all these amendments that I, as an authorised representative of the United regions of Serbia's parliamentary group, have contributed to the legal text in question. I thank the Ministry for all the understanding and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, expressed in accepting a number of amendments, with the belief that this degree of mutual understanding, time, and our attention to this topic will only grow.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19020	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19021	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, just at the beginning to ask, how much time is left for our parliamentary group? (President: You have 16 minutes at your disposal. Thank you. Kolega Obradovic has submitted an amendment that improves the quality of secondary education. In the proposal for a law on secondary education and education in Article 4(2), following the words "in specialized high school", the words "technical high school" are added. In the explanation of his colleague, the technical high school educational programme is equally valuable to the general high school program. The special feature of the curriculum is that the student chooses technical items from the field of electrical engineering, electronics, computing, mechatronics, robotics with general education. The speciality is that these objects are passed through laboratory exercises and thus combine theory and practice. We have a lot of classes that should change in secondary education and which are less necessary for students, and we need to have courage and take a step in secondary education and educate such vocational schools that would improve and improve the quality of knowledge. I will remind you that four thousand students in Serbia go to private high schools annually and that prices are between 1,000 and 12,000 euros. Unfortunately, they do not provide adequate quality in education and Professor Stojkovic noted in the opening statement that the ranked universities are our most famous in Serbia. I suggest, Mr. Minister, you accept this amendment because it is a step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19022	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19023	Article 4 refers to a term called high school and now explains which species exist. What is ultimately, the government determines unique schools and schools of special interest for the Republic of Serbia. We felt it was necessary to give some kind of a deadline, to say – five years is the time when the government is ambushing, making a cut, looking at everything it looks like and planning how it will behave in the next five years. It seems to me, if there's no time limit, if there's no period based on which we're doing some sort of analysis of all of it, then we don't have the right elements that we can have, what are our effects, what we want to improve, what was wrong with us. That's why I think it's important to put on a deadline. It doesn't have to be five years, but it seems to me it's some kind of cycle where we can see how things are going. You answer to me that it is not good to limit the period when the government determines schools of particular interest. I don't really see why it's not good. I say, sometimes it takes a shorter time to do it. It seems to me that it's good to have exact periods when you're going to look at something and see the effects of your work. If we're giving it this obvious, now for two years, in three years, we won't have a system. I'm trying to just, that's what I think, Mrs. Banovic and I showed when we talked about the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, that we have a system, that we see exactly some points of intersection and that we see from that what we need to do next. It's our only argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19024	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19025	Thank you. Article 5 speaks about the use of language. It is said in this point 3 that the school can perform educational-experienced work on the language and letter of the national minority, i.e. bilingually and for less than 15 students enrolled in the first grade, with the agreement of the Ministry of Education, i.e. the Ministry of Education. There's nothing disputed about that. What we suggest you delete is the second part of this second position, where it is said that the ministry will seek consent from the National Minority's National Minority's National Council to make such a teaching happen. This is a principled thing that we have been hating since 2009, when the National Minority Council Act was passed. You've probably seen through the amendments that we've been looking everywhere for erasing, or waiting for the National Council to give its consent to all sorts of things, including these. Would this mean that such a department cannot be formed if the national council responds negatively. You've fenced yourself here. You said – learned by experience. I know that very few formed national councils meet this legal standard, and the national councils have insisted on asking about various things, so what you've left behind for 15 days, so whatever you do, we will. It's a little bit on the edge of the distaste, whatever you do, we'll do it. For what? Because you're not doing your job. I mean the national councils. That's one thing. Otherwise, there is a question here and believe people especially from Vojvodina, and there are other parts of Serbia where these problems exist. For example, this regulation is somewhat discriminatory when it comes to members of a majority, or Serb people, who, in some territory covered by a particular school, represent a minority of the majority people. So, a relative minority in a place. So you have a situation in some municipalities in southern Serbia, in Vojvodina, I will set an example of concrete to say in Stari Moravica, that is the village near Sutotica, that there are not enough students of Serbian nationality who want to school, of course in Serbian, and that they must leave their village and study in Serbian in the village of Paci. So I hope you understand what I'm talking about, that this can be said to be kind of discriminated against by a majority people, which in a certain environment makes for a relative minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19026	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19027	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, in this amendment, I thought the same thing as in the amendment to the Law on Fundamental Education, that if teaching is performed on, to speak in the language of the national community, it means teaching is done in that language, but school has to organise classes of Serbian language and literature, so I've distinguished it, if teaching is on, then it's time, learning Serbian language, then it's classes. So, there's no class and there's class.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19028	Thank you. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Karolj Chizik. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19029	Thank you, Chairman. In this amendment to Article 5(5), we have explained that mine, to say this possibility of university learning the language of national communities in secondary schools, which is also practiced and it is very good, because children, students, extend their education in secondary schools in the majority language, but they have the right to learn the native language as a university subject. I would like to commend that, because it works very well in all the high schools in Vojvodina. So that's where the kids, the students at the beginning of the school year, declare whether they're going to go to university language learning. They are organized by going to one school, from several high school classes is organized on Saturday afternoons, as the teacher already comes to that school, perhaps the one who cultivates the language in elementary schools. But there's still this lack of language that's only academic, that's not necessarily electoral, that's not to be evaluated again. Yesterday we discussed what it means, again I'm at the point of thinking that it should be motivated, that we should enable the students to make their efforts and somehow to charge them, which I don't think is a big deal, simply teaching the national minorities is affirmative. So please consider that amendment, because I think nothing might be achieved by it, but from that moral and other side and by showing it to maybe another world, we're going to get a lot of points in front of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19030	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Vučković. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, the same text was submitted by MPs Sasa Milenić and MP Mirjana Dragas. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Branko Gogic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19031	Dear Chairman, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my colleagues from the SDPS Parliament Club and I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. First, I would refer to a member of the 10th who clearly defines and is related to the school program and talks about how the school program is closer to determining the way it educates and educates students in order to acquire knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary for further education and employment. Our intention was to single out entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial education as key aspects in the content of the school program. In addition to the fact that, in the context of the reform of secondary vocational education in a certain number of secondary schools, there is a mandatory subject, to be singled out as a school programme, because we believe that the development of entrepreneurship is particularly important for young people in this period of life, so that they focus on further entrepreneurial initiatives, for entrepreneurial ventures and of course on the issue of resolving their existence on the free market and relying on their own resources, rather than on state resources. We currently have a situation that exists in our country, existing in the vast majority of cases officially, not entrepreneurial society. This government's intensities are to create an entrepreneurial society and to turn our young people to entrepreneurial initiatives. My colleagues from the ministry who are mahogany, have university and scientific knowledge, know that, especially in 2008, more and more young people come to universities that have no entrepreneurial initiatives, which are not motivated. So the state did not create a good enough environment and a quality environment for them to learn and work on the plan. So we think that entrepreneurship is very important as a special entrepreneurship programme, that through this entrepreneurial programme there can be better integration of young people with the economy, with local self-government. Ideas can be carried out that would result in businessmen coming to high school, giving lectures, in order to form viewing companies, youth, student enterprises in those high schools, and that is the way this country would become an entrepreneurial, not an official society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19032	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Svetislava Bulajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19033	I thank Mr. Chairman, and I also address Mr. Secretary, and I apologize for interrupting him in my consultations and team members, as well as my colleagues and colleagues. So this isn't about some amendment that seems like a big surprise at first sight, but I mean in the spirit of what's subject to the treatment of amendments, it's about the content of the school program. Already, in Article 10 of the Law, you say that the school program is closer to determining the way the school educates and educates students, and you also foresee the possibility that school programmes are constantly innovated and upgraded, so we thought that one of these ways of innovation and complementing the regulation of this issue would be the inclusion and socially useful work of students in the local community, as something that would also contribute to the development and personality of students and, more importantly, to the fact that it would remain in certain situations and easily familiar with the problems of the community in which it lives, empowers it to know these problems, to possibly formulate new solutions and perhaps even more important to develop a sense of solidarity. When it comes to these things, and we simply urge you to think about it, you say in an explanation of the refusal of amendments that some of the programs cannot be predicted in advance, here is the one we've predicted and we don't see any problem that you possibly accept and that, in that sense, possibly in the voting day and you change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19034	Thank you. National MP Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Branko Gogic jointly submitted an amendment suggesting that a new title and a new member of 12a be added after article 12. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to be in accordance with the law and constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19035	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, and amendments by my colleagues from the SDPS to Article 12 also concern the issue of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial initiatives and focus, in the focus of secondary vocational education on this issue and on this area regardless of which secondary schools are orientations. Given that the state is in a major economic crisis, we need to bring together all relevant social factors to raise the level of education, of course, both basic, secondary, of course and higher education, we believe that a special accent should be put on entrepreneurship. I'll remind you as a member of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of public spending we had on the board yesterday one situation to consider the report of a state-owned regulatory body where we saw from the report that profits in this regulatory body were 300,400 thousand dinars, that the average of 170,000 dinars, which in this sense disstimulates young people to go into entrepreneurship, to open up and start their own business, is already in the interest of all who go to school, or are starting to do some work in the state service and to be on the budget. Of course, we will not be able to reform the economy, and we will not reach the economic growth we need, which is at this point 5 percent and I appeal to the Honorable Professor of Ministers and his team to reconsider and respect our amendment regarding the separation and setting particular focus on the development of entrepreneurship among young people at that age.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19036	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 15th amendment. The Government and the Competent Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. In the words of MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19037	Mr. Minister, Article 15 refers to the programme of career management and counselling of students. We've had two interventions, point one and point three. In attitude 1, you say – the school allows the formation of a mature and responsible person, capable of making well thought-out and decisions on his own and professional future, to carry them out in action. I don't know if school is the only factor, I know, it's not the only factor that can affect the formation of a mature and responsible person, and it can only create conditions for the part that it does. It allows, so it's the only one responsible, and creating conditions, different people create different circumstances and conditions. So they're different actors and that's the difference. In point 3 of the second part of the sentence, you say, to that end the school monitors the development of students, informs about professions and educational profiles, the conditions of study and labour market needs. Why would the school do that alone, if there's already a National Employment Service, where students will get information. I don't see, and I think it's really necessary for all the institutions in this country to do their part of the job, to form this kind of personality, and to make that career leadership make sense. Career leadership, teaching you and psychologists in high school, informing you about what's on the labour market, doesn't make much sense, if that means again by those people who do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19038	The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Mihajlovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The Government and the Competent Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19039	Article 16 discusses the environmental protection programme, and it is interesting to talk about it because you have no goals. I don't know why you need that if you don't want to do something about it here. You're saying you have the same definition system as the primary school that's wide enough and narrow doesn't really mean anything, as I'd like to tell you. You say – the school deals with the achievement of environmental protection through joint research and actions of local self-government and school as well as in other ways in accordance with the law. We believe it is necessary to carry out the following interventions in attitude 1, to say that this environmental protection programme includes strengthening and developing environmental awareness, as well as preserving natural resources. That's what you wrote, and we're changing words. To develop and strengthen awareness of environmental protection and conservation of natural resources. This may not seem important to you, but it is a very important definition, and I also saw Mr. Radovic in elementary schools, expecting support, again I expect support. The man worked this area, in fine terms there's a lot of different concepts, so I think this is how we defined it much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19040	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19041	This article discusses a programme of protection against violence, abuse and neglect and prevention of other forms of risky behaviour. My amendment consists of me being in the title, but in attitude 1 after words – minor delinquency, I added the word betting. You also had the next amendment where your colleague said betting, or gambling. What I wanted to say to the ministry with this amendment, though you are also aware of the problem of gambling, or betting among high school students. So this phenomenon is very widespread. High school kids, mostly high school students, are all involved in betting, so I don't know why you didn't put this in there, too, to talk to high school kids about how big a problem it is, and if it takes, it really becomes what's the problem later and for the family. There's bookies at every step of the way. I remember when we changed the law on gambling, where some regulation was passed that it shouldn't be in, I'm not sure, but whether within a 300-metre radius of the school to open a bookie. So it was mostly the owners of the bookies respected, but it absolutely did not lead to a reduction in the problem. Minors, or students, high school students, spend a lot of time there, spend money, and it just becomes fashion. So, as a society, we haven't been able to prevent the appearance of so many bookies, and of course there are problems now. Of course, a minor shouldn't be allowed in here by law, but inspections absolutely don't do their job and I can say that book owners make a lot of money on underage high school kids. You replied to me that you didn't accept it because it could be done under "another form of risky behavior". I wanted to just point out that word in this article, because we are all aware of the problem that both schools and school employees all and other actors are involved in trying to solve this really widespread phenomenon.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19042	Thank you. Mrs. Donka, you were just discussing the amendment to Article 17? (Donka Banović, from town: On Article 17.) Thank you. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19043	Honorable Chairman General, allow me to say a few sentences on this amendment. I already mentioned yesterday when it comes to this article 17, now when it comes to the law on elementary school, so and now when it comes to the law on high school, the protection against violence, abuse and neglect, the special accent and subtitle we place for the same reason, what I was saying yesterday, because we haven't restored the educational function of the school which, I say, we have abolished, is 15 years old. So, we've been expelled from school, not to mention the means of mass communication, etc., and all the factors of traditional education and education. It would be convenient, the first sentence of this member, where he says – a programme of protection; here I would add – a student and a teacher of violence and abuse; because you have a phenomenon of abuse of teachers by students. We've had a few drastic cases, so to speak, in this school year. There's more than that, you don't even talk, the public doesn't give. It wouldn't be worse to put that on. The very good government is this, actually the ministry, set up how it is done, through which and now it's very interesting to follow it through certain teaching subjects, but it would be good to plan, which means, by the number of classes in a particular teaching class, and it gets into the program, the teaching programme and the correlation of teaching content, etc. It was a slightly more complex process and when the educational function of the school was a little stronger she took care of it. I'm betting that we return that educational function of the school as a whole, and then even through teaching classes we won't get, we'll have fewer cases of abuse of students and teachers and neglect of these phenomena, etc. Also, when it comes to alcoholism, through many teaching subjects, we can do it by correlation of teaching subjects, and this key role of the school service must be played, the school educator, the school psychologist along with experts from local self-government. It's good, I say, once again that the ministry has put this really and has good intentions. It is up to us experts to work this out together with local communities and countries in general to implement it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19044	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have amended the amendment to add the fourth position to Article 18 – during the school year, the school organizes a week of school sport. This would be very useful, especially for young people in high school, and something similar is provided for in the Law on Fundamental Education, where Sundays of school sports are mandatory, the organisation of Sundays of school sports is foreseen in both half-years legally established. So, I think it was legally important to predict and commit high school, at least one week in the first or second term to organize a week of school sport. Not all children are involved in sports and sport is an important positive energy channeling that young people very often express through aggression, if they do not know that it is properly cultured and channeled. So sport is a real noble force that should be favored in high school this way. I think that this way we would also contribute to the affirmation of individuals and the affirmation of schools and, of course, the return of the authority of the school that has been quite compromised in Serbia for the last decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19046	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will vote in favour of the amendment Zlata Djeric, since Sundays of school sport that would oblige all schools, and the government in its explanation says that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that even without such a provision schools can arrange Sundays of school sports, because the adoption of general internal acts is part of the autonomy of the school. So the school was left from school to school to determine if it was going to be a Sunday sport or not. One school can have it, another school can't have it. Since we used to move more, if there were fewer computers, to almost physical education that was mandatory at school, given that we had also had physical and various tournaments at the time, that I would call it, Sundays of school sport, regardless of the increased physical activity we had as high school students, I think it would be necessary now to adopt the Zlata Đerić amendment, given that computers have done their thing, that high school students except for not paying enough attention to sports are too busy and social networks and that almost physical education, or physical activities are held exclusively in the chair in front of the computer. I think that a mandatory week of school sport would help some students get interested in sports through that week, and so that, besides computers, they have certain physical activities, not in the extent that we had it as high school students, but in order to gain some interest in school sports, and thus contribute to the sport development of their place, some amateur club, etc., it would be necessary to adopt this amendment. I also need to draw attention to the great obesity of that age, in secondary education, that more and more young people who are extremely overweight for their age, unlike some former generations who, under the circumstances, have had more physical activities, spent less time on social networks, in front of computers and computers, have moved more. I think it would be, at least I will vote for this amendment, that it would be necessary for this amendment to be adopted in a certain way and that all schools put in the same position, that they all have a mandatory week of school sport. On the other hand, to reduce the percentage of obesity through sports activities, to raise their physical activity to a higher level, and in a healthy body – a healthy spirit, according to the old proverb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19048	He has the word Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19049	I would just like to say to my colleague Djeric and colleagues, Risticevic, that we have adopted an amendment on the Committee, which reads: "In Article 18. The draft law after Article 3 is added: "At the school's school year, school can organise Sunday's sport." "
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19050	Thank you. He has the word MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19051	Dear Chairman, I think the ministry has well-conceived Article 18 and there is no reason for the amendment. In fact, we often go through some phenomena, abuse, etc., when it appears, in order to potentiate it, we go through the law, instead of doing it through the law continuously. That's the way it is with physical education. There are no elements for special emphasis. Why? It's all in article 18. This is done not only through a teaching course – physical education in high school, but also as the ministry stated – through various types of competitions. Maybe I'd just add something the ministry didn't mention - why don't we introduce free activities in high school? Just follow the continuity of elementary schools, and then within the free activities in the field of physical education we have 10, 15, free, even 20 we can have. So, I don't know why we don't have free activities in high school? The history of modern pedagogy knows that we have had free activities in high school, even more than in primary school, especially through sports free activities. That's where you throw the accent on development. I'm not in favour of giving too much emphasis, Mr. Minister, as the National Educational Council has done. As far as the tour is concerned, I have a report that you sent us, so physically in high school, it's been two hours and natural sciences are all expensive for just one hour a week, and only in one year for three years, and physically every year for two hours, plus competitions. You shouldn't go to such extremes. We can't do that, we'll destroy the children. Believe it or not, we only have history in one year, one hour a year. What kind of patriotism are we going to develop, and through what objects will our children have? What identity do you create for people to whom I belong and the identity of national communities, when it comes to national communities? The outcome is, you've figured that out well. But we have to make the contents through teaching classes. So, when it comes to outcomes, it's nice to see that we're going to have that kind of personality, but we don't provide it with teaching programs. I fully understand the National Council and you as Minister. Because, before you, ministers, especially the first minister since 2000, have drastically abolished teaching courses later on. I have a feeling this ministry is trying to fix the wrong Drin, and that's good. The sooner we fix it, the better. So there are traditional generalized subjects, when it comes to the plan and the programme, which can be redefined, and even in line with the current situation, not because we've fought the war. We've narrowed history down to one hour in one year for four years of high school. That's terrible stuff. I will again quote Cassiodor, a Roman philosopher who said, "Special history and learn the history of your people, in Roman times, because you will be strangers in your own country." One more sentence I'd say in the end. When our country was attacked in 1941, first the Germans set the National Library on fire, not even bombed, but set it on fire, we know from the latest research, you probably heard that. When they asked the chief commander: for what, he said, "We should destroy their past." Because when you destroy the past to a nation, it is normal that it has no present or future. So, I'm in favour of harmonising teaching classes and class numbers, and that means curricula. In the entire law on middle education and education, you seem to be mixing the curriculum and the program. I've seen that with many MPs. The curriculum is one thing, the program is another. But we have to get them in touch. First we set a plan, then a program. The plan is the number of lessons, and the program is content. It can be done very nicely and I see the good intentions of the legislator. But that's why there's the Institute for Improving Education and Education, and I'm always throwing an accent at it. He has these competences, not the National Council. I must tell you that in one educational National Council or accreditation there is a man who was a signer among them 60 and has sought the independence of KIM. Will he develop patriotism? (President: Mr. Atlagic, please return to the topic. ) It is on the subject, Mr. Chairman, of patriotism, through the teaching of history. This is quite the subject. You want me to tell him my name? But I must say, it's a disgrace to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19052	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19053	I'm just going to rephrase to Mr. Secretary for a moment. I know you've adopted the amendment on the board, but I'll just tell you that you said that "in the course of the school year school can organize." She can, but she doesn't have to. That's what we were talking about. It's strictly said here, "In the course of the school year, the school organizes." So it's an imperative form. That's why I insisted we get along. My colleague was talking about physical and two hours. I am not a professor of physical, but it is physically necessary in education and education, especially training and preserving the healthy body of young people. It's more necessary today than ever. The Sunday of sports is very productive in the very educational-experienced process. What's important, to remind the whole society, we have a generation of high school students who come out late night or early mornings, and sometimes these two hours of physical burdens, which very often they avoid working and finding various excuses, both medical and false and rights, to avoid teaching physical education. So it's sometimes the only more serious physical activity that deals with their body. It's something we're obliged to give them. The Fund of two hours a week is not something that will endanger the rest of the class, even, moreover, has a very beneficial effect on both attention and concentration when it comes to monitoring the teaching of other subjects. My opinion is to continue physical education in high school should be even more. But it's for the Ministry to define it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19054	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have submitted an amendment to Article 18. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivana Dinic and Zvonimir Stevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 20th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović Plassic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19055	Thank you. In this article, the title is above-the-show program and excursions. There are several views - that the school plans to perform excursions and excursions in a manner and under the conditions established by the curricula and programme, etc., that I do not read everything. We propose adding a new fourth position to the law to be, where it should stand- closer to the conditions and all other issues of importance for the implementation of the trip and excursions is prescribed by the minister within three days of the date of adoption of this law. The minister's laughing-- why three days? Because these rules are mostly already in place and it is likely that some small changes should be made, and that is why the deadline is so short. Especially the moment in which it is brought, although schools have mostly ended up with excursions and excursions, the school year has ended, but trips are already planned for autumn. I got the answer that these rules exist, I know it, so it's so short notice. I think in the law and in this article, where that's exactly what we're talking about, it should be that the Ministry -- so when someone takes this law into their hands, they know there are sublegal acts, whether it's a rule or some other kind of sublegal act, that it exists. This way, when he reads it, he doesn't even know it's regulated by some sublegal act. That's one thing. The second thing, this topic always, unfortunately, becomes current when there is some discomfort or, God forbid, a death case, there have been such ones, whether abroad is either a trip or a field trip within Serbia. I remember what the problems were when that rule was passed. And he was, in a way, brought under public pressure and all that was happening that year on tours and excursions. It even seems to me that last year, as minister, you brought some recommendation, mostly for high school, that excursions are not conducted abroad for a variety of reasons, and among other things, because of the financial situation and the economic situation in which parents are located. That practice never stopped. The recommendations, like any recommendation, the directors assessed that the recommendation and did not have to be followed, and did not cancel the excursions already organised for abroad. I don't want to talk about what you can hear in the media about the ugliest things, where it's said that teachers are very interested in journals. I know that 90% of them would pay double if they didn't have to care enough to care for the safety of the students they lead. So that argument just doesn't stand. However, I don't know if the minister is familiar, there is some, let me say, director-tourist-age lobby in Serbia. For example, you have that some school administrations are very well connected to the directors in this area because they have some common arrangements, so they appear to be the same performers because they are, of course, the most favourable in these tenders, although the Council of Parents is involved, etc. By the way, I think the law says that this area is regulated by a sublaw.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19056	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19057	I'll get involved in this matter, Article 21. The programme of excursions and excursions is one of the important plans and programmes of the school's annual plan. I'm undermining what's important - performing a field trip is specifically for teaching-experienced purposes. Are we doing this in practice, what the colleague said? Of course we don't. They are performed for other purposes, and even financially, what the colleague said. What do I recommend? What some schools practice. If it is a primary school, until the end of high school, then every primary school should make from first class a plan of excursions and a programme to eighth grade - knowledge closer and wider environments of the home state, and then, in collaboration with secondary schools, on the basis of that plan, go wider, etc. Then they would go around those places, the historical and natural beauty of our country and neighbouring countries, where teachers would be able to use it in the content of teaching purposes, in the number of classes. Just a pedagoggy of such a field trip, and I'm saying what pedagoggy knows because others don't know. I would leave it to the schools, under the obligation that each school must have a well-deployed plan, a well-developed work programme and one group, not to send a class elder to one department, as so far, but at least three people. That's what we've traditionally done in the last 20 years. Why we've left this for the last 10 or 15 years, I think it's too much to explain because we all know it well. I think this member of the law is extremely well-placed. At the level of primary and secondary schools, we need to make a well-developed plan. First it's the responsibility of the director, then all the other factors. Thank you very much. Parliamentarians Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Mihajlovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted together to the 24th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs of Olena Papuga submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 27th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19058	Thank you. Article 28 has the rubrum - the number and duration of the class. In six attitudes, the student sets out how many classes he can have in high school, what happens to the student of the school in Item 1. who prescribes the number of classes if he is a member of the national minority and acquires education in the language of the national minority, or bilingually, or in the Serbian language has two classes per week more. The 3rd point says that the student can have up to four classes of university classes per week. The 4th point says that the course of theoretical teaching and exercise lasts 45 minutes and practical classes 60 minutes. The 5th position says teaching can be organised in the blocs and the 6th position of this Article 28th says school for students in developmental disorders, teaching plan and programme can prescribe a shorter duration of time. The amendment that my colleague Maja Vidinović and I have submitted, we ask that this attitude be deleted. The reasons for erasing this attitude are quite clear if we really know what an inclusion is, if we really want the stay of children with disabilities in development, disability in special schools to be an exception, and the rule of their education to be in the regular schools to which this law applies. It's the essence of inclusion. This 6th attitude is unnecessary because schools are intended to have individual work plans in schools with a curricula and a programme, i.e. that students with disabilities and disability have individual work plans anyway, so there is no reason to regulate the duration of time, and in particular there is no reason why schools for students with development disorders are specifically listed here. In all three laws, I have seen very clearly what I think is quite clear and read. So, with a nice, first-view view, the language of the law makes the school potential for students with developmental and disability disorders, instead of being equally sophisticated in the language of inclusion, and these are the basic reasons why, co-worker Maja Vidinović and I have submitted amendments. The explanation given that the amendment is not accepted is an explanation that has nothing to do with the amendment to encourage the author of the bill to see that we need stronger, stronger and more thorough dedication and work on inclusion. It is said that schools for students with developmental disorders can be unable to monitor the course of teaching, these children with classes that last 45 minutes. On the other hand, such an explanation gives the message as if we do not know how and what is the plan and programme in schools where children with developmental or disability disorders are staying. I can only ask that you accept this amendment immediately and that we understand that the whole idea of all our amendments is precisely that the schooling of children with developmental and disability disorders is by the rule of law in schools to which this law applies both to primary and secondary education, and that their stay in special schools be an exception with the consent of the parents of the Inter-Resor Commission. In both cases, these children have individual plans because otherwise and cannot be allowed to master all programmes, but this first case, if we realize that their education within regular schools is good for everyone and for those who have no developmental disturbances and have no disability and throughout society, then it will be seen that this 6th position in the number and duration of the class is really unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19059	Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government didn't accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Education, Science, Technical Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not stated. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment with a correction, in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 29th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Aleksandar Pejčić, together by Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic and Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19060	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was very interested in listening to what my colleague Atlagic said about national history, it is a very important area and I can also comment on it in various ways. I think there should be a lot more classes in national history, but tomorrow will be one of those members, so I'll see if tomorrow Mr. Atlagic will give us a lecture. Otherwise, in Article 29 relating to the number of students in the department, in paragraph 1, you say that teaching is carried out in a class of up to 30 students. Here, I think, for pedagogical reasons, you're talking about material reasons, and I'm talking about other reasons. It's a large number of students and with these students it's really very difficult to teach. On the other hand, reality in some schools, including in the city where I come from in Valjevo, shows that mostly classes are more than 30 students and up to 40 students and that it is impossible to work there. We talked a lot, as we talked about the past law, about what the reasons were for, which are against and the definition was that they were purely material reasons. But I need to draw attention to one other thing. Do you think in Europe in other countries you throw money by having their departments at 25? Do you think they're giving that money away? No, I don't. They invest it in the best way possible. It's a path to development and wealth when you invest money in education. They invest it in having these departments, that students progress faster and better, more efficiently, are much more efficient in working in such departments, while in our departments it is a situation that once in a three-month professor to give a written exercise or to test and to break that moment, how in the mood it is, it is an assessment for that work. Our students can reproduce their knowledge at that age, possibly reproduce it with such a way of working. I'm afraid as much as we invest, we get. So it would be good if we all fought together, because this was the common position of all the parliamentary groups, including the minister, that tomorrow when the rebalancing comes here, we are really struggling to respect ourselves. This is a basic norm. We can't talk about it, we can't talk about some things about how we're going to make, I don't know, effective personalities with incredible goals and outcomes, when we don't have basic conditions that they have basic knowledge. It's the only intervention. There were a lot of words about it, but I had to say, first of all, because of my profession and conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19061	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19062	I apologize to my colleague if she realizes I'm giving her a lecture. Everything I say is in the interest of our children and I believe her. So we're on the same job, same assignment, no hard feelings, etc. I will refer to this member when it comes to, Mr. Minister, the number of lessons, not only to children, but also to teachers. Is it possible that the ministry or the institute is considering raising the quality of the teacher's education in the pedagogical sense of teaching, reducing their number of classes, and more to professional training and training? So maybe the ministry is thinking about it, because modern pedagogy is going that way? I think we stayed on traditional. It's not good that we're only cutting Grandpa's class numbers and the teachers remain the same? No, I don't. The teacher must be trained in the most modern way of teaching. There's a pedagogical problem today. That's what all the professors in the cathedrals know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19063	Just one remark, please. This is about reducing the number of students, not the class. You're talking about class, so please stand up straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19064	I'm sorry, Mr. General, you didn't hear the first sentence. I've linked the number of students to the number of students and the number of teachers. That's what we need to get in touch. Perhaps you, who are not those professions, find it difficult to understand, but I'm just mentioning this, Mr. Minister, that perhaps the most modern way to train a teacher in the office is to think that even the number, the most optimal number of students, is five. If we have the money, let's be open. That's impossible. How to train an extension for modern teaching if it has 25 or 21 hours of direct teaching plus preparation as much as at home, especially those who are Resavska school and then copy every year and every day. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19065	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19066	Thank you. I just didn't, really, when I wrote the amendments, realize how creative and how many associations any of my amendments could cause. Now I see these things go through. My colleague Atlagic didn't understand me. You don't keep a colleague to me for a while, and that's not how I feel about it. I'm just saying that tomorrow you'll be holding a national history class, but tomorrow we'll talk about it, and you obviously don't know what's on the agenda tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19067	The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19068	I don't really know what's gonna happen tomorrow, but if you need a national history lesson, we can do it after this assembly is over, I'm willing for all MPs, whatever the subject you want. It's not a dispute. I'm thinking about what's on the agenda today, and I'm pushing for our law to be conjectured in the interest of students, in the interest of our children and parents and teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19069	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19070	I agree, buddy. Tomorrow, after your vote, I will talk to you about the class of national history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19071	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Mehandzic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19072	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, my colleagues from the Ministry, I'll be with you shortly. I welcome the intensification that practical teaching and professional practice are organized in high schools. However, you have again prescribed that the practical teaching and professional practice of the school can be achieved in collaboration with the company, institution, other organisation or other legal person, and I suggest that you amend this attitude by introducing a commitment that the school organises practical teaching and professional practice with market players, or market factors, and not, as you have explained, or explained, in an explanation, that you do not accept the amendment for the reasons that schools also have a competent place to conduct practical courses and professional practices, which are teachers of practical teaching. The point of organising practical teaching is for students to meet the market, to learn about and learn about their opportunities in institutions and businesses, therefore, which are factors on the market. I suggest you reconsider your position and make a commitment that the school must co-operate with market factors, and regarding this position of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19073	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19074	Dear Chairman, I support this amendment from my colleague and I think it's quite all right. You have educational institutions that can't organize practical teaching because they don't have the means. So, where are they going to organize it, if not at school? It was done traditionally. Let us not narrow down and slow down the breadth and wealth of educational work, even when it comes to practical teaching. I'm saying that for the last 15 years, we've ignored it. Our children would be healthier if we took practical farming lessons on agricultural holdings. What didn't we talk about when we were talking about physical? Not to mention other forms. There are a lot of forms where we can take practical classes and bring physical education to that level. It shouldn't just be the number of classes, etc. I really support this amendment. I think he's perfectly fine and it's a traditional practice. We have the resistance of teachers to practical classes in high school, because they won't teach at the firm, because it's easier for them to perform at school, although there's no means of working in school. I think the Ministry and the Government should really think and give opportunity, even a commitment, because it is a mandatory practical teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19075	The 30th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government didn't accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not stated. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19076	So it's still about Article 30, which regulates practical teaching and professional practice. Among other things, I also support the amendment that my colleagues submitted before me, but he was referring to another position in this article. Otherwise, we suggest that attitude 3 is changed and that there is – school in collaboration with the Interresor Commission for Students with Disabilities in Development and Disabilities provides job adaptation, in relation to its opportunities and type of disability in the practical teaching. So, what you're saying, other than what we're proposing here is that there be an inter-resor commission involved. Another new view is that the closer conditions and way of funding practical teaching and professional practice is prescribed by the minister within three months of the date of adoption of this law. Why did I have to point out the funding of practical teaching here? Because it can often be done in a practical classroom in another part of the day, not in the regular course, and then it may need to be provided, if it goes to a company or company where it is done or to a property, some kind of transportation, and then it should provide sandwiches for both students and teachers. You know, that's where some extra costs come in. It wouldn't be bad if some sublegal act or regulation were to prescribe it, whether local self-government or school or ministry. There's still some expenses here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19077	The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 31st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic and MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19078	Article 31 has a second edge – forms of direct educational-experienced work and defines in its present seven views the additional teaching that the school performs for a student who achieves exceptional results or shows interest in deepening knowledge from a specific subject. In the second point – the additional school course organizes with students who have difficulty mastering programmes from individual courses or with students who want to improve achievements in a particular teaching area. In the third position, the student is obliged to carry out an additional course, if it is estimated necessary. In the fourth position – the prep course of schools is made for a regular student who is referring to the passing of a class exam and an extraordinary student. The attitude that my colleague Maja Vidinović and I wanted to add is that in Article 31, after the fifth attitude, a new attitude is added – the preparatory course is realized for students who do not know enough language in which the educational-experienced work takes place or who have missed most of the course due to the temporary absence. In light of the failure to accept the amendments, it is already said that the Law on the Foundations of the Education System that such a thing is happening and that it is for students who have missed most of the course and that the preparation course for the class exam is foreseen. I don't suggest what he says to me in an explanation that he's in a different law. I'd like to see an explanation, what's wrong with adding a new attitude six after five, which says the prep class is also being realized for students who don't know enough language or who missed most of the class due to temporary absence. This is not defined by the Law on the founding of the system we are referring to, and if that is an explanation, that something defined in the second law, then most of these members should not stand in the Law on Middle Education. In addition, we asked to add the 8th position – School for students with developmental disorders is required to organise preparations for those students who move to a regular education and education system, based on the opinion of the Interresor Commission, with the consent of parents, or students' guardians. It is also said in an explanation of the refusal of amendments that it has already been prescribed by point 7. The bill provides additional support to prepare students with developmental disorders to join the regular system, and again to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, to define support for education of children, pupils and adults in the educational group, or second school, in accordance with the criteria and standards prescribed by the minister. What is written in Article 31 in the current position of 7 is that for students with development disorders, who are included in the regular system of education and education, additional support is provided in accordance with the individual educational plan. But our proposal is that the school for students with developmental disorders is also obliged to organise preparations for those students who go into a regular education system. That's two different things. It is perfectly consistent, like our idea to support the inclusion, that is, the principle that children with disabilities in development and disability in regular schools are schooled as consistently as we consider it because it is a matter of strategy, because it is the decision of this country, because it has a foothold in other regulations and laws. It is obviously quite consistent and persistent of the legislator, that nothing that would concern mentioning both the right place and defining the preparation of teaching or educational-experienced work for students with development and disability is included in this law. I can only express regret, since no one will benefit from such stubbornness, and we will all have damage. Having experience proposing such amendments, which minimally innovate the text but send the maximum message of what the state is willing to do in the future, I think we'll be back to these amendments very soon. My message during the various debates was that the progress of a society and state is possible when there are basic democratic freedoms and rights and when, in the shifts of those who manage public goods, one simple message is understood. Whoever was the opposition, then became power, does not repeat the mistakes of the former government. Whoever was in power, then the opposition, doesn't repeat the former opposition's mistakes. Unfortunately, we don't see this rule in action, we don't even see it in words, but we see a repeat of the former government's mistakes. I can only ask that at least think about it, what a shame it will be that most of all those who have this law ahead of us, and these are children in primary, and in this case, in this law, in secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19079	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The people of Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Zarko Korac together submitted to the 33rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19080	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, with this amendment to Article 33. In fact, the LDP predicted that high school education should be mandatory and I believe that we will all agree in the hall that it is a need, a civilization need, and that in particular, more than we MPs are representatives of the ministry. To tell you the truth, I feel the sense of even explaining this amendment, and especially considering the explanation the Ministry of Education has given us. In fact, there are two reasons. The first reason why this amendment was rejected, the amendment which provides for compulsory secondary education, is that this is not foreseen by the Constitution. I must tell you that what is not forbidden is allowed. Secondly, we all know that the Constitution only provides for a minimum of rights. Thirdly, the most dangerous thing is that we actually allow the Constitution to be an obstacle to our development, especially in the development of education and modernisation, which has special meaning for us. That other reason is even sadder, to say the least. You are telling us that you reject this amendment because, in the Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2020, it is up to me to quote in this strategy: "it is necessary as soon as possible", with an emphasis on, "to carry out all the necessary analyses in order to determine the possibility and justification to make a mandatory entry into secondary education since 2020". That really sounds devastating. I think the Ministry left out the real reason, and that's what I talked about in the principle debate. The real reason is to save the Ministry of Education and we have seen and now that in these anti-crisis measures, the Ministry of Education has reduced expenditures by 9.4%, which is really inadmissible, regardless of what the crisis is. This just shows that the government does not have the right solutions, as soon as it has been identified as reducing the budget of education, culture and science. It's a total fiasco. It's just a demonstration of the inability and incompetence of the government. I was talking about not being good, it's impossible to save, you said yourself it's kind of practical because this year there are 10,000 fewer students who are going to enroll in high school. After all, and that talent. Aware of how many illiterate people there are, how many functionally illiterate, aware that we have missed the third industrial revolution, was simply inevitability, the need to adopt this amendment, and to move slowly with some strategy of implementing the adopted amendment, i.e. provisions for secondary education to be mandatory. As for this savings, in the principle debate, I said it wasn't good, I think you were most wrong here by refusing to introduce high school education. Symbolically, it's a student standard law, but you're raising your claim from 8.5 to 9. First of all, I don't know what the difference is, we haven't been given the data, which is the number of students from 8.5 to 9, by how much that scholarship will be reduced. Secondly, one of your associates threw me, because I said it was only 6,100 a month, as far as I know it was 84 million or about 700,000 euros, but whether it took a reminder of how many times this state, this government, however, was the previous government where the good part of the ministers was, after all, and you ministers were a member of the previous government, spent money on completely absurd things. As one of the most bizarre cases, I can point out, and that was the same in your mandate, the case of Miladin Kovacevic, where a million dollars was set aside, which is where there is symbolism because it is so much the Nobel Prize, and all of the total scholarships amount to 700,000 euros. All this together when we think about it, everything really seems both devastating and somehow pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19081	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19082	Let me get in here. It would be good, as it began to flow, if we really didn't politicize these members of the law. It's our children. Really, please, let's leave the former government and the current government alone. Let's not talk about who spent it. If we go like that, then I should be talking for an hour here, but I have no intention. Let's leave what's been robbed, let's go to this problem. I think the problem that my colleague put on the idealistic point is good from the point of development of education. We should all strive to make high school education mandatory. It's a matter of the future. Now the question arises – how are we supposed to be in high school education, when we haven't covered basic education and education enough, when five percent of our students don't even enroll in primary school and 15%, as the minister said yesterday, doesn't end up with those in primary school? It's a matter of the future and we need huge material preparations, professional ones, etc. So, I advocate, as the Strategy tends, to go towards it etc. When it comes to investing in education, I apologize for having to say one sentence, which is that the largest capital of one state is professional personnel, but not that I, as a pedagogic, go to treat, and that the pedagogue is a machineman, for example, works. So in the last 15 years, we've messed everything up. If he needs a pilot, I'll be a pilot even though I'm not. Japan, as an industrial country, when the greatest peak reached, was done by personnel. Do we invest enough? We don't invest. Do we? We do. Do we have savings? Of course we do. We need to find a savings. I really think we have savings. Let's return the savings as an educational task, as the Germans have. I'm sorry, when I shave in the morning, I'm not gonna let the water leak for five minutes, but a certain amount of time. That's what I saw with the Germans, because it's an integral feature of personality, education and education. We're in a wasteful mood when it comes to the budget. It's easy to spend it, take credit from outside, and spend it, and it's hard to make money. Here, when it comes to the practical teaching of our children, that very aspect of the work-technical, ministers, we need to pay attention, because we ignored it. The transition from socialism to capitalism, there is no versatilely developed personality with more emotional than work-technical. Why aren't we doing this in practice? We have accepted capitalism as a system, and we act in a socialist way. We didn't plan and program, redefine, what I often point out. I think the Ministry has a good will because it indicated it. When it comes to cooperatives, you've placed an extremely good cooperative, it's up to us only in schools to work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19083	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19084	A brief observation, given that for this amendment, therefore, the obligation of secondary education, as well as the proposals on the number of students, is an argument that there is no money. The minister made it quite clear yesterday. I thought I'd have time to ask him if he was missing or complaining? I had the opportunity to support or be an opposition to Minister Zarka Obradovic, Minister Zoran Lončar, Minister Slobodan Vuksanovic, Minister Ljiljani Covic and Minister Gashi Knezevic. Every minister said he didn't have any money. My proposal on these two amendments, one that has passed and one that has submitted a group of LDP MPs, is that we agree with all of us in the Assembly that it can't be an excuse, that it can't be an explanation, but that it has to be a starting point for all of us when it comes to education. Why do I say that? Because we have ahead of us the budget rebalancing and because savings, not only in our country, but savings in EU countries and savings even in the countries of North and South America, are all about eliminating the good functions of the state, with a promise to recover the economy. Then you see that we miss thinking about 150 million euros because we're saving in education, but we don't see that there's economic recovery. The figures in Portugal, Spain, Italy, but France, almost all EU countries, Germany are just beginning one difficult process, because they have a huge problem with their education system, you have a huge percentage of the reduction in what is common money and which should be an investment in education by four years. I'm not talking about education workers' salaries, I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about what the state sees is supposed to invest, as I would invest in having 25 students in the department or that secondary education is mandatory. Pressing the need to have as much a sustainable budget as possible, press the fact that, let's say, from Serbia's budget, with 9.5 billion euros, three billion and 700 euros a year, that we have to see how we're going to distribute this rest, that sentence that I mentioned at the beginning -- what we're going to do, there's no money for school, that's a sentence to deny ourselves the future, we're going to sell it for what we're going to do. My proposal is for the minister to have the most serious and strategic approach with all MPs in the National Assembly before the budget rebalance. I guarantee you that in all parliamentary groups you will have support for the position that we are criticising budget rebalance, that the attitude that we are criticising is the fact that the finance minister is in the autumn, and he has been told, overestimated the revenues and overestimated the expenditures, that this is why we had a package of tax laws, that all this story will be broken in order to take some more money from the Ministry of Education and to invest in the future. It is my request to delete the sentence – this cannot be educated because there is no money. I know exactly how difficult it is within the coalition, within the international network and institutions dealing with the budget, within the ignorance and the knowers of the budget, within the frauds involved in the budget, but I also know that this hall, with all of us MPs, is ready to talk about whether it is really necessary to talk with such ease – there is no money for something in education and to reduce the amount of income from education. A few years ago, I asked that we change the methodology in the budget, because education and the Ministry of Education is the only one that shouldn't have any expense in the world, except for wages, because it's the ministry where every dinar you invest, every euro you invest is an investment for knowledge that will be worth this country in four, five, ten or twenty years. This is not a curtous thing that would be treated as an offer of an opposition letter to the ministry that will be difficult to say – I will not reduce, in my opinion, this is a strategic matter. If we don't talk about this this year, we'll talk about it next. If we are not next, they will no longer stand a chance because the good functions of the state in education will be abolished, and economic recovery will not be. It is a trend that is clearly lost in ten of the 27 EU countries. Please think about it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19085	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19086	Let me say something. It's not about easy words at all, how you've assessed it, when it comes to the state of the budget. On the contrary, it's a very difficult thing to say. I don't really know what happened at the time when the portfolio was run by counterpart Gisa Knezevic, co-worker Covic, Vuksanovic or Lončar, I only know that since 2008, since that year, we were in a position to always reduce our budget in the ministry in the part that applies, for example, to investment. I mentioned yesterday, and I have to say today, the question of reducing the number of students in the departments. It's not just a material question, it's a spatial question. Unfortunately, in the years before, we didn't make schools, and we should have. We have succeeded in making 25 new schools in the past few years, but every year it is necessary to separate an objectively large sum of money to improve education infrastructure. Because on the one hand, we boast that we have a long-term education and that we have schools that are hundreds of years old, but on the other hand there's not enough money to invest and somehow it's out, whether we agree or not, it doesn't depend on the structure of the government, on who's in power or opposition, but that's one of the general problems we're facing. I can agree with you that in the future we should change this attitude towards education, regardless of who is in the government, who is in the opposition, who is the minister, who is who, who is not, but that the structure of the budget is defined in a way that is more and more money for education. This is not only about what the Ministry has as money directly, but also about what local self-government has, because at the level of local self-government, a large part of the infrastructure business needs to be done in order to improve schools, in order to simply make learning conditions for all students across Serbia the same way, in order to create equal conditions for all students. It's an objectively big problem that we're facing. Since 2008, I have to admit that every year we reduce the amount of money needed to perform infrastructure works. Part of the money needed for the infrastructure we have replaced, replaced the loans from the European Investment Bank and the World Bank, and this is very successful in realising, but the money is missing. The money's missing. I can't do anything else, until I express my expectations that with the improvement of the economic situation, but I say, by solving this issue in one way that everyone really understands the importance of education, in order to change the structure of the budget. I know the government is always the most responsible, but it has proved that regardless of the structure of the government, somehow this relationship has remained the same for years, not to say more than a decade or more than two decades. In 1998, I came up with this data, the ratio of the structure of the budget and the Ministry of Education to the allocation of salaries and for everything else was approximately 88:12. Now we have this relationship of 92-8, all I'm talking about is education. This suggests that it is one long - term or long - term tendency that needs to be changed. I'd like to be honest with you, that the change in the Constitution comes as soon as possible, that secondary education is mandatory, but I have to say that certain research shows that, regardless of the obligation of education, we have higher child enrolment in high school than in some countries where it exists as an obligation. So it's not just about whether or not it's going to be prescribed, it's about how society deals with this issue and we're not waiting for 2020. On the contrary, that is before, because I sincerely hope that the economic situation will improve. Yesterday I said, in addition to the demographic factor, the material factor becomes an objectively limiting cause or condition of development of education and improvement of quality of education and that is one problem we face, all of us in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19087	Thank you. Did you want Mrs. Micic's replica? Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19088	I don't have the exact information right now, but since you also called Minister Gaš Knezevic, you mentioned him, I don't know how many new schools were built, but I remember that a pretty good amount was invested in the school's infrastructure because there had to be roofs, windows, there was no heating. Absolutely, schools were like infrastructure, like institutions, and were physically destroyed. Secondly, you are now telling us how many schools have been built in the last five years, and how many churches have been built, say, in the last five or ten years. Why don't we compare, say, that data? When we talk about saving, it's inadmissible to save in education. That's where I'd do the analogy. I think it's like saving in health prevention. Then what you don't invest in prevention, later it costs you the first human lives, and secondly, it's much more expensive treatment, surgery. That's what this is about. That's why I don't think you should have said yes, or at least that you fought, that we saw somewhere in the public eye that you were fighting to reduce the expenditures of the Ministry of Education. You know, right now, in the age of developmental information technology, it's just not enough basic education. We can see from all indicators. That's what I was saying. (President: Time. ) Look, apart from the Fiat, and the automotive industry, which has invested a lot of investment, and I guess one day it'll all be worth it, all of it, look at all the factories, which the qualification is needed, the cardboard factory, the tape, the cables. Not only foreign investment, but also the quality of foreign investment, and this depends on the quality of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19089	Thank you. The word is Mr Svetislav Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19090	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to respond to what the Honorable Minister said, that he expects a change in the Constitution, and given the explanation that has arrived in the rejection of this amendment. We do not need a change in the Constitution, because if you read the Chapter of the Basic Principles and those provisions relating to fundamental human rights, it states clearly in the Constitution that everything in the Constitution has to be interpreted in favour of improving the values of democratic society, and this will certainly mean raising secondary education at the level of compulsory education. Therefore, it is not necessary to wait, and it is generally known that it is very difficult and difficult to change the Constitution which is, unfortunately, advertised, and some have already voted for it, some have not, as the Constitution that will easily change. It is more than clear that this Constitution is not going to change so easily, so I suggest that, since the strategy already says that you are establishing the justification of trying to make high school education compulsory, that you also pay attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19091	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sasa Milenic has submitted to the title and article of the 34th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Mihajlovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have submitted an amendment to Article 35. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19092	We suggested that attitude seven be changed. It is said that in the course of the year, it is about high school, that during the year it is about enrolling candidates to acquire specialist, or master's education, professional training, retraining, qualifications and training with the consent of the ministry and this part of which we are erasing – and in a school where teaching is performed in the language of the national minority, the opinion of the National Council of the National Minority is previously obtained. Unless it responds within 15 days, the opinion will be deemed to have been given. This is one of those pointless provisions that you have taken from jurisdiction, a valid Law on the jurisdiction of national minority councils. That's what you're saying in these answers. I could have expected before you to ask that this applicable law be amended at least in those provisions that are found to have been misrepresented in practice. Again, you're talking about that if the National Council doesn't give an opinion within 15 days, which means you have that experience. I'm really interested in what the National Council of National Minorities has to do with deciding when a high school enrols candidates to acquire specialist, qualifications, requalifications, etc. What is the role and opinion of the National Council? Not at all. Therefore, you should have advocated amending the current law. Otherwise, I will also refer to the previous amendment of my colleagues who are not here to talk about where they asked that you and the title above this article where it writes – a competition for enrolment in a school whose founder is, meaning, I am talking about public schools, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, or unit of local self-government. They also asked for the National Minority Council to be added. This brings us back to the question again, and when this law is on the basis of a system of education and education, I will talk about it, that you still have time, think about it, and that there is no practice in the school system that some national council can be co-owner, i.e. the owner, or that there are 50% founding rights. At this point, the only National Council that has, I say, a respectable budget is the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority. I am glad that they have a good budget, and I would also like other national councils to have budgets from which they can finance projects in the fields of culture, information, media, etc., and what is in their responsibilities. Only at this time is the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority. In other words, there is a man asking himself – why would a national council want him to have founding rights at a school? In doing so, the state appears as someone who is a hundred percent financing that school. So it's something that you have time to withdraw if you've agreed to accept that amendment, especially that it's a completely unregulated area. So Serbia will continue to pay and finance 100% but will have only 50% of the founding rights and why is it so important? What's behind that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19093	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Obradovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19094	Article 38 has a number of candidates for enrolment and a preliminary exam and says in the first position, "The order of candidates for enrolment in school is determined on the basis of success in previous schooling, which includes the success of students in the final exam." My colleague Maja Vidinović and I suggest that the same article, after the very same article has been read, add a new attitude that reads: "Extremely from the attitude of 1st member of the individual person or group of persons can be enrolled in high school under more favourable conditions in order to achieve full equality". The basis for this amendment is in the Law on the founding of a system of education and education of Article 99, which defines the prohibition of discrimination, so to speak. In his explanation, the promoter says this is defined in the Law on the Education and Educational System. I think it's more of an excuse than an explanation, not even an explanation because the amendment is written because there is a Article 99. Why is it important that we accept this amendment? Because you believe in my word it's harder to break prejudice than an atom. This is the second thing I know how to do. This is what I do in my political business first. They won't, they won't enroll a child of Roma nationality, they won't enroll a child with problems in development and disability, regardless of the inter-resor commissions, regardless of the request of parents or guardians, such as, allow me the dysession, they won't be happy to see women in politics or the wife of the Prime Minister or Minister, etc. It's a mentality thing, and there's no hard feelings. That is why laws and there are that in their members they prohibit behavior based on prejudice, that it is prohibited to be punishable or to send a message about why it is not good with prejudice to treat a child from another environment, other ethnic, religious origin, Roma children or children with disabilities. It's the idea of affirmative action. The will of the promoter to say that it is enough to write in the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System will again not benefit anyone. I know how much the fight against prejudice and stereotype is, and what they're telling me now is that I'm writing down who's who, heavy, slow, but we have to give each other our word that we're not gonna give up. I know you won't accept amendments concerning children with developmental and disability disorders, and I know that it's a concession to the resistance that exists in society in inclusion. If the majority of this institution, this government or this society decides to ignore the inclusion and if they go deaf about the need to resist the inclusion clearly says that this is a civilizedly inadmissible thing then we will all be at a loss together. For the end, in one sentence I'll give you one comparison. If we had said, in time of 1958, clearly as a society, that we couldn't fight anyone else's family, that it wasn't a traditional Serbian family, that you couldn't beat a grandmother, or a brother, or a wife, or a husband, or a child, that we'd have done it in 1958, we'd have a tradition of good family relations, and we wouldn't have made changes to the Criminal Law. So please don't let this be 1958 for the turn-on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19095	Anyone else want a word? Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović and Jovana Mehančić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić together submitted to the 49th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19096	This article regulates the question of class examinations. The first point is that a student who has not attended more than one-third of the scheduled number of lessons for justified reasons, and the evaluation found that he has not achieved the prescribed goals, outcomes and standards of achievements during the school program is referred to the class exam, so it is now. So there's nothing new here. The student is taking a class exam within the June and August deadline, and that is the end of the position. We propose to add, such is the practice at school, that the student pass the exam, or class exam, before the commission appointed by the school director. It's a simple addition to this attitude, which I think contributes to the quality of this attitude at all. This isn't clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19097	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have submitted an amendment to Article 55. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19098	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister. Article 70 refers to the student records. I was talking about records when we were talking about the basics of the system. You assured me that you spoke to Mr. Shabic and that he approved all of this regarding the records. I can believe it, but I can't imagine he approved that personal data on a student, the name, the name of a student, the unique home number of citizens. Why would a unique home number of citizens be a school-interesting data? I really don't understand. Why would that be information? Of course, the practice is to be taken into the bank, and when you pay for parking, only they don't take away that unique number of citizens, it's just amazing. That's not the kind of information that interests the school. What's the school supposed to do with that home number? Nothing. I really think that kind of information, even when it comes to a student, and when it comes to a parent, when it comes to a teacher, you say it should also contain information about the teacher's salary. What do you need that for? What do you need records of teachers' salaries that haven't changed in five thousand years, and now you have an increase of a drastic 250 dinar. This is the information you don't need at all. You have a bunch of unnecessary data that collects not only the Ministry of Education, but also the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport and others. It's data that's not given. That's why they're called classified information. I don't think it's necessary, and as we plan to adopt reports and trustees next week, I'm really going to use my right to ask him, why it's necessary for a single mother number to be given as student information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19099	Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted joint amendments to the 74th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19100	This amendment, as well as the discussion will be about the discussion of my colleague, Milice, and it's also about the records, with it being regulated here that there's a record of high school employees being kept, so there's a lot of things listed here. My colleague was talking about why we think it's dangerous to keep a record of JMBG and we shouldn't, but we'll take the opportunity, once there's a report from the trustees that we're talking about it. I have proposed this amendment to delete the words about keeping records of employees' salaries, and I have to admit that I wanted to be there more, Vickque, and I have the right to replace the word "paying" with the words "voluntary work". First, since the 2008 salary in education hasn't changed or changed by 1% or 2%, so I think it's better that we don't keep the data on what the last years of the education workers' salaries are, it'll be easier for everyone, and it's gonna be easier for them to keep records on the lovemaking work, because every teacher, teacher, teacher, not just in high schools, does a lot of work that can be done under volunteer work, or work without being paid for it. You answered me, and it was a surprise to me to keep records of volunteer work under some other records. If we can't pay them properly, then at least there's a record of how many people invest their time for free.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19101	Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted their MPs together to the 76th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19102	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't even say that the minister isn't here anymore, because last time I said that, and the man was sitting, but now I really see that he's not here. This article in 76 refers to keeping records and I will not be as squeamish as my colleague Donka Banovic, because here the matter is a little more serious. You're talking about collecting data that form the basis for keeping records and you're saying that the records will be kept in Serbian, Cyrillic, and Latin, in accordance with the law. In the Constitution of Article 10, it does not say that it will be guided in this way, but how you stick to the Constitution and how you use it as an alibi for not having the money to make a department with 25 students, let alone introduce secondary education, as required, there we must be absolutely clear. I don't understand how you can talk about the Constitution being your only distraction, if it's clear we can't make a department with 25 students. There are other objective interferences called material conditions, but it's easier to stay behind the Constitution, so counter anything else when it's spoken of. Neither the Constitution nor the other laws speak of this, as you have written in Section 4, but Section 6, and Section 5 first says – when educational and probationary work is achieved in the language of the national minority, the records are kept in both language and letter of the national minority. All right, there are two parallel records, one in Serbian, and the other in the language of the national minority, and that's fine. The following position - the record can be kept only in the language and letter of the national minority, in a form prescribed by the minister as part of the sublaw of Article 3(3). Be careful, it can only be kept in the language of the national minority. What's that all about? How do you handle a sublegal act that we won't see? I don't understand. Is that how you keep records of Serbian children in Romania? I'd really like someone to give me an answer, you've all bent your heads, no one's looking, so let's get an answer to this, why it takes one member of the law to have three provisions on how to run the paperwork, can do this, can do that. What does it depend on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19103	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Mehandzic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 78th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Djordjevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 85th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milisav Petronijevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new chapter VIII, nickname and a new article 90 be added after article 89. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) to Chapter VIII and Art. The 90th and 91st amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the 90th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19104	Besides wearing the same outfit today, we want to talk about the same amendments today. We're really tired, and it's warm in the O.R., and it's really hard to concentrate because it's intense. So right again to strike employees. We talked a long time about the elementary school law, but now we have confirmation from the DSS that we were absolutely right when we talked about it, about primary schools in attitude 1. What does it say? School employees are entitled to strike in accordance with the law, this law. What first law? The labour law, this law and the law governing the strike. Is it funny to think that you're referring to a law that hasn't been passed? Of course not. The law exists. Mr Palalic explained to you that we inherited this law from the federal state and that this law is fully in line with the many things you wrote and we cannot forget that you have it. If you don't have it, if you don't know it exists, we guide you, look, and then you'll understand. So you find that there is a strike law, you realize that there is a labour law that regulates the issue of strike and you find this as a third law relating to the same area. Do the three laws in the state of Serbia need to be governed by the same area as the training workers strike? Is it possible? It's not possible. There's one law that regulates it. I would ask you to look at what Serbia's legal system looks like in that part. Again, I insist that members who regulate the strike of employees do not belong in these laws. That's what other laws regulate. I suggest you seriously consider making a mistake when you did not accept our amendments to delete the article. 77th and 78th in basic law. Mr. Kostic, you're going to force me, turning my head, to really start this issue in front of the Constitutional Court, and I'm going to be very happy to run it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19105	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go. (Donka Banovic, from the post: I will do the next amendment. All right. Thank you. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19106	These are actually two members who regulate the strike of high school employees. If in something the Ministry of Education is consistent and keeps making sure that in every law, from that roof and these other sectoral laws, if in something consistent, in abolishing the right to strike for educational workers. Now someone's probably rebelling - how to shut down? We have a procedure here, a minimum process of work, etc., it is the abolition of rights and the separation of educational workers from all other workers in Serbia, even in Europe, except, we said, those in Montenegro, because they have such a minimum of work. So, educators don't have the right to strike, as do other employees. You go to that point, it's a very dangerous member, where you give the Director the right to if the employees don't comply with all these legal provisions, so he can give him a solution to the termination of the employment relationship. When I was talking about basic education, I was talking about that when educators strike, it's not always and it's not just because their salaries are what they are, but many times the protests are organised, protests are also shown against the conditions of work, lack of professional training and for many other reasons. With this, I fear we may be silenced by perhaps the smartest part of Serbia's population.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19107	Thank you. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted to the 93th Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19108	I thank the esteemed Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, very similar to the previous proposal for a law on basic education and education, on this proposal for a law on secondary education and education, the SVM Group has submitted several amendments. This is the last one on this bill, and it is almost identical, that is, this Article 93 refers to trusting the interests of the state administration of the AP. As with the previous law, we have proposed here to add consent to a bilingual course in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Why? We believe that because of the existing projects concerning bilingual teaching, they are already being implemented in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and for better and more efficient communication of various institutions, right in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, where it would be more celebular, meaningful, better, to trust the execution of these tasks to the authority of the AP Vojvodina, in particular to the regional secretariat for education. We ask that, if possible, you consider accepting this and the other four amendments mainly based on the rights of members of national minorities, in education in your native language, not choosing between bilingual education and education in the native language, as well as those already in secondary schools learning in Serbian, still have the right to an electoral object, the native language with elements of national culture, to be motivated, because perhaps those children between 15 and 19 years of age do not realize how much later in life they will mean to know their native language, history, the elements of culture. Now they're just looking at the fact that they need a good average rating, so they don't mind this subject being a college class anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19109	Thank you. Members of the 94th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 94th Amendment were submitted by MP Jovana Mehandzic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE EDUCATION OF ADMINISTRATIVES You have received amendments to the bill by the MPs: Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Aleksandar Pejčić, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta, Dr Zarko Korać, Ljubica Milošević, Slobodan Vuković, Slobodan Jeremic, Snezana Stojanović Plašić, Nebojša Zelenović, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papug, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond, Zolltan Pek and Ollgica Batić, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19110	In Article 4 relating to adult education goals, we have added in our position a new point 3 which reads: "promotion of the importance of lifelong learning". The very word you used in Article 3, lifelongity, is completely unknown to me, but okay. You've accepted that and I can correct it, but lifelong learning can stand. We also predicted item 4 which reads: "continuous professional training". These are things that really need to be considered when it comes to the goals of adult education and I don't see what the question is to accept it, since it is entirely in line with what you say, that the principles of adult education are in Article 3. What we've mentioned and what you've been looking for is consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19111	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubica Milosevic, Slobodan Veličković and Slobodan Jeremic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Education of Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19112	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues and I have submitted this amendment to Article 9. The explanation we have received is not satisfied with the reason why another parliamentary group, or a colleague I highly appreciate, has been accepted, but I believe that one mistake has been made, that our amendment has been diminished in relation to the other parliamentary group. "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment to Article 9 has been accepted. The draft law of MP Donka Banovic, which has the same essence and precise formulation." I think the government here had in mind the most likely MPs who are known in this home, or who work longer, and we are younger MPs, and I suppose that was one of the reasons why our amendment, or explanation, was not accepted. I ask the representatives of the Ministry and the Government to reconsider this amendment of ours with a given explanation in correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19113	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19114	I volunteered to talk about one of the amendments, not to make a replica, but come on. Now I'm even right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19115	No, I didn't give you the right to a replica. You can only talk about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19116	Now you will give me the right to reply, because the colleague said the name and last name - Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19117	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19118	Dear colleague, if it's going to be here now that there's some kind of protection, then it's going to be the first time. Usually if the amendment is from the opposition, then the amendment will be terminated, and an amendment of MPs supporting the government will be accepted. I think the Ministry estimated that some formulation was more precise and that they accepted it, not because someone was famous and unknown. It doesn't matter. You're a much more important MP, because you support this government than someone who's in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19119	Mrs. Banovic, I gave you the right to a replica, but I must admit, as far as I understand it, Mrs. Milosevic did not speak offensively about you. So she only commented on why their amendment was not accepted. Of course, it is clear to all of you that these two amendments, which are different in themselves, cannot both be accepted. So only one amendment can be accepted, and that is, in this case, Donka Banovic's amendment. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19120	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 9 speaks about the use of language and says adult education is achieved in Serbian. For members of national minorities, adult education is achieved in the native language, i.e. bilingually if it is defined when enroling at least 50% of the participants or candidates. Now, talk again about a member of the national minority, but it does not say what will happen when adult education is achieved in the language and letter of the national minority, and the organiser must organise both participants and candidates for teaching the Serbian language. We suggest that this be a new position on the 4th, which reads: "When adult education is achieved in the language and letter of the national minority, the organizer of the activities is obliged to organise the teaching of the Serbian language for students and candidates". Ms. Banovic, speaking of the Law on Fundamental Education, said an example from Stara Moravica. I don't want to mention another example, it's really ugly, because they would say that a majority of people are trying to deny the rights of national minorities. Absolutely not. National minorities, as far as the DSS is concerned, should have all the rights, but they are also members of the majority people in some parts of this minority country, and they too need to have the opportunity to study in their own language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19121	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović Plassic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stosic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19122	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 15 refers to advice on adult education, and in attitude one, it is said that the units of local self-government are then set up to monitor them more efficiently and to carry out adult education, and now in Section 3 it is said who should do this advice and you have suggested that they be representatives of the units of local self-government, the organisations responsible for the job of employment in local self-government, employers, trade unions and associations. Since we have a lot of local self-government in which there are other problems, we have expanded the composition a little bit, so we have proposed to your proposed members – the advice is made by representatives of the local self-government unit responsible for education and employment, the municipal education inspector, the refugee commissioner and displaced persons, representatives of employers, trade unions and associations of citizens, as well as representatives of the interresor commission. You forgot that we should include this group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19123	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19124	I'm sorry, there's something wrong with the units, and you're reading so fast, we can't follow you. Article 18 speaks of a procedure for granting approval to an organisation which will deal with adult education, or is an organizer of adult education activities, somewhere even publicly known as the organizer of adult education, at the bottom is the position, perhaps seven, eight, where it is said that the application for authorisation, based on the findings of the educational inspector, will be decided by the Minister within three months of the date of submission of the application. This does not seem to be some particularly long deadline, therefore, from the moment a request is made for an organisation to receive that it is publicly recognised by the organizer of adult activities and education until the time when three months are granted and not so long. However, it is one complex procedure. What we have done, or I have done with this amendment, is that every step of the process, I have given a period of one month, so the Education and Training Office delivers an opinion to the Minister within a month. They are the link in the process, and the following – the education inspector of the ministry delivers a report to the ministry on the fulfillment of all these other conditions for granting approval, again within a month and the minister, when he gets all these findings he has a month to sign the approval. You didn't accept it and I also wore the idea that very often, regardless of what the law says three months for some approval, it's a lot longer, and then it can't be, I'm not talking about this right now, this is a new law and new action, but then you can't determine which link in the system has not done its job on time. So by interpreting and giving each process for a month each of them can simply be determined, it will also be useful for you to know who in that chain did not do his job in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19125	The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill? The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MP Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19126	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Secretary, I've been calling you all day, but let me get this straight. We have two amendments to article 19. One is accepted, one is not accepted. The one that wasn't accepted was defended, and the one that was accepted, we wanted to hear that he was accepted, because he just didn't show up. In Article 20, we have adult education, you say that adult education can be achieved – through lectures, training, courses, seminars, workshops, stands, counselling and other forms of learning and education. We believe that the stands are a place where education cannot really be talked about in such a way and therefore we feel that this tribune should be left out of this attitude 1. All other forms of learning and education can be accepted and they are one of the ways. The tribune is certainly not the way of education, it is the information, but not the education. I think I'm talking about education. In Article 2, we delete these words – by lettering a consultation course, adult education can be done by means of a written consultation course. It is an era of information literacy, but really even if you don't see a man and don't help, this is about those who need to consult a personal nature. It's about people who need support in different ways, and I think this is meant for people who can do things on their own. These people need help to advance and help from all sides. I think that personal contact is much more necessary. In the end, at Item 3 you predicted who is implementing the educational programme, so you say – performers of the education programme, adults, teacher, lecturer, trainer, manager, instructor and others. I don't know what the manager should be doing in this system. We have replaced the leader with words – the teacher of practical teaching. We think he is much more necessary here than the word – leader. The leader is one universal word that means someone's leading someone. The Greeks would say pedagogue, but I don't know how you could put that leader here. What's that manager supposed to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19127	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Veličkovic together submitted the 20th amendment with the correction. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19128	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we only wanted to add to these necessary entities that participate in the education process of the elderly, more - and other professional associates under point 5, in accordance with special law. This led us to see the rapid development of society, science, technology, and everything else that makes us think more widely about the application of those people who can contribute to faster and more consistent development of the whole, even the knowledge of the old people. So we intervened with this point and we're sorry if it wasn't accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19129	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment with an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of 27a. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19130	This is one proposal for a completely new member, which speaks of a more detailed organisation, i.e. organising practical work. The member is – education programmes organised through practical work can be achieved with other legal entities and entrepreneurs if practical work is carried out in facilities that do not belong to a publicly recognised organization of activities, mutual rights and obligations between activity organizers and legal entities or entrepreneurs where practical work is carried out shall be governed by the contract. I really thought that you would accept this amendment because it better regulates the relationship between activity organizers, adult education, and there we also have qualifications and requalifications and other visions, where practice and practical work is practically the basis of this, so that it is not regulated by law, the relationship between the one where the practice and the organizers of the activities that can have nothing, therefore, it does not have to have workshops to perform practice, in my opinion you should also edit by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19131	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 29th of the amendment, the People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19132	Thank you. Mr. Minister, associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must stress, as I did in the debate in principle, that it is extremely important that we pass the Law on adult education and that, in addition to formal learning, informal education and informal learning is recognised, which is extremely significant. The SVM parliamentary group submitted two amendments to this bill. I'll try to explain it very briefly now and the other one, but let's start with this first one. This amendment to Article 40 refers to the issue of public documents and beliefs and existing positions 1 and 2 are fully correct. Article 1 states that public documents and credentials are issued in a Cyrillic letter, i.e. a Latin letter in accordance with the law, while in the existing proposed position 2, it is pointed out that if adult education or the prior learning process is carried out in the language of the national minority, in that case these public documents or credentials are issued in that language. We tried to take one step further and to propose between these two existing positions one other position 2 in which we ask that public documents, i.e. credentials can be issued bilingually, in Serbian and in language and in the letter of the national minority, i.e. in a foreign language, in accordance with the law, and this is not about adult education taking place in the language of the national minority, but in Serbian. I heard some of your associates on the Education Committee, Mr. Minister, but then they said it couldn't be accepted because of a foreign language. Is it possible, then, to be corrected and accepted bilingually? That's the only thing I was denied for. The second amendment that we have submitted to this bill is to Article 65, and it again applies, believe it or not, to entrust the state administration's affairs to an autonomous province. We have here proposed a number of jobs that could be entrusted to the appropriate authorities of the AP Vojvodina. What is most significant, we asked that the Pedagogical Institute of Vojvodina be entrusted with a job related to the implementation of the prior learning process in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but unfortunately, you refused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19133	Anyone else want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19134	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a member of this 45th law refers to the formal basic education programmes of adults and we intervened in attitude 5, where you talk about the number of adults in the group, or in the department, and you say – the number of adults in the department, or in the group cannot be less than 15 or more than 20. We think they're big groups. There should be great effort, great support, and we believe that these groups should not be less than 10 persons and above 15. We're not suggesting this because we're from the opposition, so now we know that the economic situation is difficult, so you can't fulfill it, but because it's really impossible for both the pedagogical principles and the norms that are being discussed here and what it's saying are really such that this is a large group and that it's necessary to reduce both that minimum and maximum number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19135	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment proposing to add a new title and a new member of 48a. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19136	This is a proposal that in some ways, again, you regulate an unregulated area, when it comes to enrolling candidates and students for adult education programmes. So, the title is to advertise the candidate's enrolment and that would be the new member of 48a. The enrolment of students of education is based on an ad that publishes a public recognition of the organizer of education, i.e. after the organisation is granted approval by the Ministry that it can be an organizer of education. This ad must contain the conditions for entry into a specific programme and the number of participants, i.e. the number of restrictions, although this law prescribes how many a group may be, but it may be more groups for a specific programme. Therefore, the number of participants, in accordance with the programme of education and the approval that the organizer has indeed received approval from the Ministry of Activity Organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19137	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 49th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19138	Thank you. This today reminds me of a scene from the movie "Singing on the Stars", which will be the first to move. Today, from the DSS parliamentary group, on this side we are trying to convince you that the sea of things you have written in the laws has a problem and needs to be fixed, but on the other hand, we are coming across the wall of silence, you are firmly standing in your positions. It's a little bit accepted, my colleague throws it away. It's a little bit accepted, of the 140 amendments they've accepted 18 of us, that's a little bit. This Article 49 refers to, believe it or not, performers of adult education programmes. I'm really a little harder to deal with these new professions and functions. Imagine, now we've got program performers. There was no other word to use the word artist, but to use it. In Section 3, you state who all these performers are, and you say, they are among other things the leader, whom we have already intervened. We felt that the teacher of practical teaching was a much more acceptable solution and needed this process more than the leader. Finally, I'd really like someone to explain to me what the leader is, what's his function, what he's doing and where he's leading and who he's leading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19139	Thank you. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 65th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedures of the System of Education and VASPITANJA You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the proposal of the Law: Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olenj Papug, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Balint Pastor Pejčić, Radoslav Komlenović, Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milošević, Riza Halim, Srđan Šajn, Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Balintović, Laslo Varga, Arpad Bormond, Zaltana Pek, Olgica Batić, Neljica Jovanović, Milejić, Milejić, Miljejić Mižalić, Miljljić, Miljljić, Dušan Obradnović, Ljiljan Obrad, Ljuč, Ljijanač, Luč, Žović and Žalić, Žaljan, Žaljan Žaljan, Žladić, Žaljan, Žaljanić, Žaljan, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaldić, Žaldić. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected, as incomplete, amendments to Articles 7, 10 and 17. The bill, submitted jointly by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on – Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Natasa Vuckovic, joint MPs Gordana Komic and Jovana Mehandzic and joint MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19140	Let me just add an observation as to how she can when we understand each other. It is important for the public because it is my deep belief that our debate serves exclusively that people who watch us, who will follow the stenogram notes on the site – Open Parliament, or at the Serbian Assembly, the website of our National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, explain to them what is what in certain members of the law will produce changes in their lives. That's the purpose of our conversation, according to me and the only one. That is why it is important for me to say that the proposaler has accepted the amendments to which he is returning, to say, removes the erasure of part of the text in Article 1. Law on the foundation of education and education systems, without obstacles to change, continuing and completing education and education throughout life. It's a great message, because it's completely irrelevant what motive this change was to propose as a erasure. It is completely irrelevant how many of us MPs have seen this and given an amendment to the same text. The important message is how this member will look in the future, and that is that lifelong learning is what we consider to be valuable. Thank you for accepting my amendment and my colleagues and others who have noticed that it is necessary in this law to delete it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19141	Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Svetislava Bulajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19142	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister and members of the team, I am reporting not only because the amendment was rejected, which is not so strange, given that we are coming across a little bit of understanding, but also because it seems that our reasons, for that, were intervened yesterday, do not read or miss reading them. I understand that there are a number of amendments, but I don't think it's right. Well, given the reasons why this is being rejected, you can see that you don't respect our arguments, even if you can answer them. We have asked for an amendment in order to introduce organisations and wider social environments explicitly and civil society organisations. We did it on purpose, so that it wouldn't be a formal excuse for those who don't want that co-operation anymore, not alluding to your lack of co-operation. On the contrary, we believe that there is co-operation between you. That's why we don't see a reason why such an amendment can't be accepted, so before we absolutely explain it and say it. The interpretation of this syntagma - a wider social environment often arbitraryly, insufficiently, precisely, and we see no reason not to adopt this. Especially in the second attitude you've completely deafened because that's part of the amendment, you haven't responded at all. So we asked that adjective - quality, when it comes to the evaluation of individual preschool institutions here exception, not only is it a value court that divides preschool institutions into quality and non-quality, which I allow to exist, but there are no criteria for categorization and without such criteria is very difficult to achieve. So I ask you to think again, even in this first part, let's go to this second one if it doesn't seem acceptable for you to accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19143	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Komlenović. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, master of Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta, Dr Zarko Korać, together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted to the same text by the MPs Natasa Vuckovic, together with national MPs Gordana Komic and Jovana Mehandzic and joint MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19144	Thank you. This is the second good news and the other two minutes I will use in an attempt to, on behalf of my colleague, Jovana Mehandzic, and I suppose, on behalf of other colleagues, I would like to express my satisfaction that this amendment has been accepted. Namely, what's this about? Our intervention was to amend the proposed amendment of the Law on the basic system of education and education by making the text – equality, tolerance and respect for differences by the proposal which was the subject of our interest in the text – only equality and tolerance. Our proposal not to take away the syntagma – respecting the difference, we believe that it is reasonable and we are glad that this member will remain as he was in the previous text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19145	The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, the MPs Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic jointly submitted. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment, the MPs Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korać jointly submitted. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, the MPs Donka Banović, the MPs Balša Bozovic and Vladimir Gordić, together with the MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted the same text. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Vladimir Gordic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19146	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, we have proposed this amendment for a reason because this amendment of the Law has been abolished by the basic competences of the National Educational Council, which is explained as increasing the effectiveness of this whole procedure. This competence is that the National Educational Council proposes that the Minister be approved by textbooks and teaching agents. However, we believe that efficiency can be obtained but is lost to the transparency of the whole process. Namely, the entire competence from the National Educational Council, which is one professional and independent body composed of our most valuable academics and professors from all universities and universities, is transferred to the Institute for the Promotion and Education of Educational Education, which has so far participated in this whole process in this professional work, through the Center for the Development of Programs and textbooks, where the preparation of the standard of quality textbooks and teaching tools has been carried out, prepares the textbook plan and gives a professional evaluation of textbooks. One of the arguments that you have stated is that there are not enough independent experts who are not in conflict of interest, and these professional matters have been done at this level and therefore we believe that we should adopt this amendment because that way the transparency of the entire process of approving textbooks and teaching means will be far more pronounced if, in the whole procedure, the National Educational Council remains as a control body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19147	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter Mr Svetislava Bulajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19148	I thank the chairman. We are reporting on the same issue as the previous speaker and we are of the same opinion and with the same explanation we have been rejected. We therefore find it inadmissible that there is a reduction in the competence of the National Educational Council, i.e. that several actors, including the Council for Professional Education and the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, appear at the same time, to be responsible because the harmonisation of behaviour in this sense is a prerequisite for successful work. It's not just about transparency, but first of all what we most insist on is quality and quality standards, and since I'm one of the authors of high school education textbooks, I think I'm kind of interested in quality above all, not speed and efficiency. Either way, the procedure goes on sometimes or more than necessary. In that sense, our appeal and the appeal of other MPs who have recognized this problem is to think about it one more time and try to change your position in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19149	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment tabled by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19150	Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, Mr Minister, I have proposed that in Article 14 of the National Education Council's competence, I supplement a new point to read – providing consultations and obtaining opinions from national minority councils on education issues from the particular interest of the national minority, which I think is far more affirmative for national minorities than the existing formulation of point 10 of this article, which provides for consultation and obtaining opinions from representatives of relevant socially marginalised groups. I think the proposal is far more appropriate than the existing solution. On the other hand, the reasons for not accepting the amendment are not understandable. In addition to the above, taking care of issues of particular interest to national minorities, through the structures of the National Educational Council, is at least so far insufficient, in fact invisible. First, practice shows that only one national minority representative from the candidate list, shared by national minorities, is quite insufficient. Nineteen national councils, 19 different problems with all their specificities and practices of our representative so far are insufficient, not successful at all. It didn't work out in that concept that was set at the beginning. Then, we also had in this law, which we adopted in the Assembly for the first time in 2009, in Article 12, paragraph 6, the formation of permanent commissions that would deal with these specific problems of the education of national minorities, and unfortunately so far has not been revived and achieved. I think that by strengthening through this jurisdiction, in this way, those responsibilities that the National Educational Council, by my logic, could help to strengthen this, to make the issue more effective in the next period resolved. Today there have been a lot of interesting ideas here, in my opinion absolutely unacceptable, that the national council that has more money should have more rights and founding, and those who do not have rights, they should reconcile. If they don't have the money, why should they have the compensation? On the other hand, it is said – if 100% of the government is funding schools and these institutions in minority languages, why would the government transfer 50% to national councils? Now I ask the question – do we, as the Government is the highest executive body of this state, do we not understand or not treat the national councils of the national minorities at that level, that the lobby of this country that solves the specific problems of the citizens of this country? If we figure that out, then why would the idea that they would have to pay, get money somewhere, and get someone like that? I think those who didn't, when this law was passed, realize the essence of solving specific problems... (President: Mr. Halimi, back to the amendment, please. ) I think the essence of the amendment is just trying to strengthen the role of the national council, not devalue it, because the National Council is just a partner of the government and local authorities. He himself cannot make a single provision, what the law on national councils predicted, to accomplish if in practice the atmosphere of partnership with these two levels of government is not created. In practice we have such problems, first of all, with local authorities, but sometimes we have further possible legal vacuums and then adequately respond... (President: Time, Mr. Halimi. I think I have five minutes. (President: five minutes and 14 seconds. And those two minutes? (President: Yes, but come back to the topic, please. Yes, absolutely. I rarely speak here, Mr. Chairman. You know how reduced we are by our own MPs, be patient. So the essence is here, we've given national councils too much competence, so we're afraid that most people will lose. In my opinion, the point is how we can achieve in practice what we've come up with by adopting this law at the time. And, of course, it takes some things to be complete here and there, so there's no vacuum, that what's imagined, as an idea, that a new institution solves specific problems that no one has ever solved before. About the problems of education in Presevo, Bujanovac, in Albanian, the ministry had not had the most elementary performance before. Now you're working on it. It's becoming a gradual national council of the ministry's partners. If the help of the ministry was achieved with local authorities, then this whole essence and this project would in practice prove to be successful as it is imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19151	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19152	Thank you. Mr. Halimi, you know we have a law on the councils of minority communities. The law regulates a number of rights of members of minority communities. Members of national minorities have their own member in the National Educational Council. Efficientness implies that one representative be there on behalf of all national councils of national minorities and to give a position on a specific issue on the agenda. If there is only one word of advice, it is logical to obtain the opinion of that advice and the minority community. Otherwise, in practice, you know, we have problems at the level of local self-government, that local self-government ignores the advice of national minorities, and then we have a problem that solves other provisions of this law. Therefore, I think that minority communities are absolutely respected and that they are part of the education system. There is one partnership, because we agree on all those issues that are important for the education of members of minority communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19153	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19154	Just a brief explanation. I agree with the Minister's final assessment. But what's the point here? That laws, the idea of the law, are fully implemented in practice, require institutions. It's not just national advice. He is just an initial chapel that should organise and solve these specific problems, but with the help of institutions. In addition to what we have mentioned, with the ministry and with local self-government, those other points of Article 12 must be realised in practice on permanent committees that should have a national educational council on the issue of national minorities, as the teaching institution must have a special unit dealing with specific education problems in minority languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19155	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19156	I'm reporting on the replica. I recognized myself in Mr. Halimi's discussion. I was talking about national council budgets, but I'm afraid he didn't get my discussion very well. I'll look back on some of the other things he said. He said that until national councils were formed that the state had no idea of education in the languages of national minorities, members of national minorities. I think it's more than once in this room, and that's what I think a colleague of the Papuga reminded us all, and at committee sessions, that Serbia has a 250-year-old tradition when it comes to the education of members of national minorities in their native language. She's right when she says Serbia should be proud of that data. I don't think any other European country has that much tradition in the area. Mr. Halimi, when he was, that's why I have a lot of moral right to talk about it, in this House of National Minorities Act, I think we've had one 50 amendments, then Minister Chiplic, we've challenged many members of that law, so I have a moral right to continue to challenge them. What happened here is that the ministry will accept that the National Council has the role of founders and that it can have up to 50%, I'm talking about public schools. We have a ministry or a state that funds it 100%. If there's a possibility that school can be a public school and it can be a private school, I repeat again, I don't see the interest of a national council having 50% founding rights. You're all right. No one can be a better partner to the state than the National Minority Council, when it comes to the education of the national minority. But you were also talking about experts here. I know some national advice that simply doesn't have enough experts to make textbooks for a particular area when it comes to the language of that national minority. I'm not gonna point out which one now. Then who will help, and help the ministry, because they cannot find experts in all areas and that is one of the great problems of some national councils, perhaps not the National Council where you are, but some others are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19157	Replica, MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19158	Mrs. Banovic, I was talking about the problems that schools had in Albanian, I didn't talk about all the other problems or the situation of national minorities and the education of national minorities in other parts. The Duchess is in any case far ahead and that's a fact that's generally known. I, during Minister Loncar, had several specific problems that the ministry did not know at the time, because since the 1990s, institutions dealing with teaching problems in the whole country, including us, at least as far as representing Albanians were concerned, have been in a major handicap. For a few years, we haven't had a representative in ten years. Back in two years, that's settled. The National Council of the last two years has been a serious partner to the Ministry of Education. The very fact that this element itself is only now working on the textbook problem, and it has not been done before, the whole complex most important in education has been unsolved for more than a decade and has only been solved in the last two years. That's why we need to trust national councils, give them all the support and where there's a gap in the law, supplement it, so there's no practice of vacuum and stalemate, that schools then have problems that sometimes arise. I hope this is how we start to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19159	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The amendment was not accepted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The amendment was not accepted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac together submitted to the 7th amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The word has the People's Messenger Svetislav Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19160	Thank you. This is another example of the obvious misunderstanding when it comes to the submission of amendments to the proposed law. We are absolutely going from a quality assurance aspect, and we believe that the fact is provided with an expert opinion on textbooks in no way contradicts neither the needs nor the strategy nor everything you're supposed to stand for. We don't even argue with the law. It is your right, Mr. Minister, to approve of textbooks and teaching tools. On the contrary, we think it's okay and in our amendment we even said that it's being forwarded to you for adoption. It is unacceptable for you, and I stress that this is not the only thing that we have noticed, that this is already a well-known part of the recommendations of the Citizens' Protector, the Anti-Corruption Agency, which dealt with irregularities in the process of evaluating, approving or printing textbooks, so I am now bold to repeat what we have already written in the explanation and this challenge of transparency of this process is indeed the fact that we have talked about a little earlier, related to other members of the law, that now the National Educational Council is no longer having that kind of jurisdiction and that, in this process, the above-mentioned participation of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. We don't dispute your rights either. We have not even reacted in this way, we rarely write amendments in a way – it is deleted. Even if there was an old solution, we wouldn't have had any major objections, because the old solution has incorporated the professional evaluation of textbooks. I really ask you, if you're in any position to reconsider this. Nothing changes in terms of the meaning of the solution, and I don't believe that it's somehow affecting efficiency either, because it's about forwarding to a minister, who absolutely doesn't have to be competent for everything, chemistry, biology, human rights and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19161	National MP Radoslav Komlenović submitted to the 9th amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac together submitted to the 9th amendment. The word is Mr Svetislav Bulajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19162	Thank you. I won't be long. I really couldn't resist it, but we've already made a lot of comments on the reasons for the rejection of the amendment, but it's just that calling on the nomenclature in this case is unacceptable. If I accept your opinion that the term "expert" is not covered by the calling nomenclature and that which is obtained at higher education institutions, I do doubt that they are also competent persons. What we really wanted to emphasize is just this quality of expertise and nothing more. We're really sorry, we've been listening to both your arguments and your lack of independent experts and an insufficient number of faces and things like that, but we think you should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19163	Thank you. On the 10th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic, together the MPs Balša Bozovic and Vladimir Gordić and the MP Zlata Djeric, together. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 10 refers to a subtitle, after Article 24, the title is added – Education and Education Agency, Article 24a is a new editor, explains how the agency works, what kind of agency it has, what rights and duties it is, etc. I really wouldn't have come forward under this amendment if we hadn't on many occasions convinced ourselves that the Ministry of Education and Education has a very big problem with finance and that these finances are on the way and high school education that should become mandatory today, that they have problems with finance because the number of departments is not adequate, which is not adequate for the number of students in the department, which investment cannot be carried out and I completely understand, I really don't dispute it. That's all the facts to think about, but I was just talking about really having to consider what we're getting and what we're losing, if that's logic. It's a poor logic, and there's not much to be fixed if you keep thinking like that. I don't know how many times today, when we talked about these things, about the budget and the budget rebalance. Come on, and I can appreciate that, but now there's something that I really can't accept that all of these things that we've talked about are very professional and that are methodological and pedagogical really things to discuss when we're talking about education laws, all this poverty, all that poverty, the ministry that has 23 administrations, councils, seductions, one pretty big and branched machine, decides to build an education and education agency. On the other hand, the agency's responsibility has one institution, but the ministry believes that in 2016, when it said it would establish this agency, there will be funds and then the agency will liven up and indeed do great things for education. The Democratic Party of Serbia thinks there really is no room, it is a dispersion for us. For us, it's more rational to invest in education, which is worth it, and this is really a waste, and it's an unnecessary waste. We don't think there's room here for an agency and this member to be deleted. I can't help but say that one of the election promises was that the agency would be abolished and unnecessary bodies would be abolished. Now I see that some new ones will be established. That wasn't in the story. I can't forget that in this House the agencies have been abolished, and it has started with a big elan, and everything relating to environmental protection has been abolished. There are absolutely no more environmental agencies, it was initially destroyed, and then it stopped, the others were needed. At this point, we have over 130 agencies again, and again we have an announcement, the Energy Minister is talking about abolishing new agencies, but they are not there. We now have the establishment of new agencies. I have to ask you to be serious. If you're consistent with the claim that we can't do things in education just because we're poor, so we're serious enough to say, you know what, we're going to redistribute our own forces, and there are, for God's sakes, so we're going to cover the Agency's competences and we're going to do this job within the ministry. If for this people ionizing radiation, chemicals and anything else that threatens them, they really don't have to and don't matter, then I don't think the education and education agency is absolutely important, even if it's going to issue admission exams isn't important and it shouldn't exist. That's why I think our amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19165	The word is made by MP Vladimir Gordic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19166	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the DS Group also tabled an amendment to this member of the law and, as well as a colleague from the DSS, we have proposed to delete this member. In fact, when we look at this member who is the mandate of this agency, we will see that it is established to monitor the implementation of the general principles and objectives, to achieve strategic development and to improve the overall education and education system. I ask you, is it possible that so far no institution within the Ministry of Education and Education has dealt with these affairs and is it engaged today? If that's the case, then it's okay, then we need to set up an agency to run those errands. However, you are here proposing to us the establishment of a new agency that will deal with exactly the same tasks that already existing institutions within the system, above all the National Educational Council, the National Council for Higher Education, the National Council for Medium Professional Education, the institutions, one and the other, etc. Given the economic situation in which our country is located and the fact that 95% of the funding is used in the education budget is practically for the salaries of employees, and only 5% for the development of education, given that this agency will practically be financed from the budget, we believe that the creation of a new agency, which will additionally burden and needlessly burden the budget further. In addition, this government, as we know, has promised at the beginning of its term of office that out of the existing 137 agencies will abolish the majority, for rationalisation and less consumption. However, so far they've abolished everything... (President: Time, Mr. Gordic. )......................................................................................................... Seven agencies, and now another agency is being re-created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19167	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19168	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, co-workers of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will probably not report on the amendment also under Article 10, where I have invested and the amendment has been accepted, in the light of the addition of what is set out in Article 24a's Bill on defining the affairs to be dealt with by this agency. I would like to say that the SPS MPs support the formation of this agency in this manner and in the time as defined in the bill. I must express a lack of understanding for at least those MPs who belong to the Corps of Pro-European MPs, understanding and attitudes, in the pursuit of European integration, that they are not boring in this regard and do not respect what standards and what practice is in the EU. So I can understand MPs who are against European integration, it's legitimate, and for their part, they're justified in explaining it, but I don't understand these others. I must say that this involvement of the education and education agency in the education system is actually an example of what the education system is in the EU. Of course it's a need that makes this seem. It is known that the SPS MPs do not prefer, that they do not support the multiplication or hyperproduction of these agencies, offices, directorates and other similar institutions. We did not do so in our part of the government, except when it was necessary and necessary and conditioned by certain documents that are of broader importance, and regarding the integrations that await us. In this regard, you should look at Article 44. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, which states that the Act establishing this Agency will be two years after the entry into force of this Act and that the Agency will begin its work and work on 1 January 2016. So, take your time with it. It disproves those to actually form another agency for the sake of not knowing what interests or reasons, which certainly cannot be accepted and is not true in that, but rather delayed in a rather time-consuming distance. If, meanwhile, we have negotiations in this chapter with the EU and if it does not insist on the establishment of this agency by the EU, it will not be formed. Of course, these reasons should be accepted by those parliamentary groups that have declared themselves European integration. Otherwise, they think or act two-faced. So we're not in a position to want something now, and we're not going to have attitudes from moment to moment. Minister Obradović, with his team, was certainly seriously considering this provision in this law, as well as in general on all the laws and in a very responsible way, and he asked this question, and referring to what I said – Article 44, when the agency will start working, which is 1 January 2016. After all, the seriousness of the work of the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development is certainly evident, factual and it is seen, because, for how many days we have been working here and he is sitting here with us, with his team, which next to him is another 10 associates from all areas that are on the agenda, taking part in the work. I do not think that any minister has taken such a serious approach to his obligations towards MPs, according to the National Assembly and the act of passing laws that are important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In view of all this being said, we believe that this agency, for these practical, pragmatic reasons, should be formed and this remains in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19169	On what grounds, ma'am? I don't see a basis for replication. (Milica Vojić Markovic: As I understand it, he mentioned us pro-European and us who are against it. He didn't mention you personally. And since you're not an authorised representative... (Milica Vojic Markovic: I am an authorised representative. I'm sorry. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19170	To put aside for a little while how former mates who participated in the former government treated each other best show themselves. What I understood from what the gentleman said, we are relieved of these concerns because we are consistent and we are fighting for the thing we have fought for before, but, as I understand it, the agency should exist because it is a European standard and the EU is asking us to do so. But if the EU assesses we don't need that agency, we won't even start it. Since we're in Europe, we have to vote for this, so what's it cost? And if it costs, it costs. And that's why we're not going to have departments of 25, but we're going to have 30 and more, which is why we're going to have groups of adults not with 10 but with 15, 20 etc. I think it's finally time to take care of the interests of the country, not the interests of some others who won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19171	Miletic Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19172	I would like to add only briefly that I am confident that I and the MPs of the SPS, and I believe the ruling majority, and even a part of opposition parties or individuals in their ranks, that these laws and solutions that are explained in this way actually prove that we are very responsible, in order to improve the future for Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19173	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. The word has the People's Messenger Svetislav Bulajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the continuation of the debate that has just opened up and had no ambition to classify ourselves or declare ourselves to or against European integration, I think that the Liberal-Democratic Party is really ahead of it, and that it is quite public, rather than disputing people's right to think about it, even though it is not our own thinkers, I draw attention to what the agencies mentioned, the engagement in two and a few years, since 1 January 2016, shows that this is an economic situation that does not benefit at all. This formalist understanding of European integration, the establishment of agencies because the EU's expectations may be necessary, we think that for this moment they can be existing institutions, and that this task of assessing the work of the ministry, which will certainly be the biggest user and so many of the biggest consumers, and in relation to everything we've talked about here for two days, poor logic, budget rebalancing, about a bad moment, I think this is premature. There will be an opportunity for this law to be perfected, I sincerely hope, because it has already become quite unreadable. It is simply our recommendation that you think about it, because the competences of this agency must be specified, and indeed they can be used and employed by existing institutions, there is no obstacle to such a thing. It's all about the aspect of the real vision of change in education, which not only changes the education system, for itself, but society as such and then abstinences to enter the EU, but again reminds me, not for the reasons of formality, whether we are for or not, but essential, valuable reasons, which mean that we will think about education in the way Europe thinks, rather than what its expectations are. That's why I'm saying this is a formalistic thing, because it doesn't necessarily have to be an agency, although it can be called for. The last thing, it is clear that it is the agency in the right sense, because it is written in this additional article 24a. the rules on public agencies will apply to the work and performance of the Agency. So it's clear that it's about agencies in the sense we're talking about in public, where we're saying that there are too many agencies for today's moment and where it's economically unsustainable. In that sense, we recommend you for help, if necessary and we are trying to influence you in some way to bring this process into line with how long you really are in reform and have arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19175	The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government accepted the amendment, with a correction, and became part of the bill's meeting. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Radoslav Komlenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On article 10 of the amendment, with correction, submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Balša Bozovic and Vladimir Gordic, the MP of Natasa Vukkovic and the joint MPs Gordana Komic and Jovana Mehandzic, together submitted to the 11th amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19176	Article 11 in the basic text adds the words "as well as a school that has remote students with developmental disorders". It refers to a new solution, an additional solution that is practically, most easily, considered to include setting up a class in schools of regular teaching, but such that the departments with some number of children with disabilities and developmental disorders are. It's unacceptable, especially when it's read from an explanation why this amendment has been rejected that we're asking to delete these words. It is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that a solution to the Bill's proposal in a more detailed and precise way will regulate the process of inclusion, making the process of inclusion in the education system more effective and providing professional assistance to teachers and educators working with children, students and adults with developmental disorders. How will this process of inclusion be made more effective if special departments are established? What's that? That you have a classroom with five, ten, twenty, as many children as you want, but all children are children with developmental disorders and disability. Unfortunately, on this amendment, that is, on these words, which are otherwise contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and with a general comment, number one, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, is contrary to the idea of inclusion, that you are introducing into the Law on the System of Fundamental Education the words: "the establishment of special departments in regular schools", and you have called on this to reject my amendments to the Law on Education and Education. (President: Time, Mrs. Komic. We will make a huge mistake if this proposal remains in law. I ask you, no matter how much I see no will, to define ourselves by a really clear message for the application of the inclusion, to accept at least this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19177	Minister Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19178	I would just like to inform my colleague Comić and the other MPs who are interested in this member, that the committee responsible, the parent committee adopted a member who reads – the school for students with developmental disorders is being added, as is the school that has students with developmental disorders. Because that's how we talked to the Child Rights Committee in order to avoid the possibility of speculation that it was special departments, but we agreed that the formulation adopted by the Committee was appropriate to avoid possible speculation, because the UNICEF people also suggested that this member be changed, so we agreed on the Committee that the formulation should be like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19179	On what basis, Mrs. Comic?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19180	I apologize for the inability to carefully escort the minister's answer. Does this mean that the proposed text no longer exists, that the amendment of the Committee on Students with Disruption in Development and Disabilities will be accepted? And that's much better, thank you, and I'm asking that next time you have a little confidence in your domestic associates not only in UNICEF advisors, we know the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19181	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19182	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, as far as I understand that the board has in some way tempered a bad member who could have presided, to say that we have special departments. Every segregation on any basis, national, religious, and others is not good, nor is it specifically placed in the special status of children with disabilities. Since in this part we have somehow received an answer, I would like to refer first to the discussion of counterpart Miletic of the SPS, who praised Minister Obradovic, who is sitting here today. Well, where would the Minister of Education be, at a time when eight laws from his area are in front of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Mr. Veselinović, please, I won't let you, I won't let you, go back to the amendment). I would just like to ask Minister Obradovic what about the allegations of Professor Popovic, who, as a supervisor, says - submitted a report on the fact that there were copies of the tests found in students, or one student, at the time of the Serbian exam, which was the basis for the annulment of the test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19183	Please keep the agenda, and honor the agenda and the Rules of Procedure, so that you do not put me in a position to react as I would have to do under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19184	Here, sir, General, article 106. - The speaker can talk about the item of the agenda that's being conducted here. The previous speaker really speaks words that have nothing to do with... Please. (President: Mr. Atlagic, don't you, wait, please don't. Did I react? It is. (President: Therefore, on what basis do you now again advertise that I have injured the Rules of Procedure, when I responded in time and did not allow the MP to speak further, I think you are wrong. He was still talking. (President: I warned him again, and the man broke up. Please don't. I'm sorry, I'm not gonna talk. As soon as I start talking, you have a fear of the truth. You have fear of me and of the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19185	"Please, why should I have fear of whom. You don't need to be afraid of me, I don't need to be afraid of you. On the contrary, I want us to cooperate properly. You're putting me in a position to break the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not. Then I would have to warn you needlessly, do you understand me. You're putting the two of us in a position to deal with a problem that doesn't exist. That's all I want to stop and nothing else. ( Marko Atlagic, from the place: Okay, will you let me say one sentence?) All right, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19186	You did not warn the Messenger of the people, and he kept on speaking. You didn't hear that, and it's my right to advertise on what he said next. Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19187	Mr. Atlagic, you're wrong because I warned him again. Come on, get a stenogram and you'll see. Please, we're moving on. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have submitted an amendment to Article 11. Proposer representative Professor Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, accepted the amendment at the Committee session. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the master of Svetislava Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19188	Thank you. I express my rare satisfaction that this committee intervention, in fact, has basically been accepted by our amendment. I'm very glad that you recognize the intention to avoid certainly indirect abolition of the inclusion process, it is assumed that special departments are being set up because it would indeed completely collapse both the concept and the purpose of the inclusion. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19189	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19190	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been thinking about whether or not I should talk about this amendment, but not to praise, although explaining a dozen, exactly 18 rejected amendments, I have praised the ministry enough, but to point out that as Mrs. Comic earlier, this is one of the positive things and indeed the most significant amendment relating to the founding rights of the National Councils of National Minorities. It is extremely important that the Ministry of Education accepted this amendment to the roof law. Although I personally think that this is somehow normal because in 2009, we passed the National Councils of National Minorities Act, and if the Law adopted in Article 11 states that there are founding rights, then it is logical for it to enter into the current proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of education and education systems. I'd like to appeal to you, Mr. Minister, I really don't think it costs you anything, that as soon as you've accepted this and thought the same thing, that the proposal for a law on basic education and education and the proposal for a law on secondary education and education, you submit amendments concerning the same things you accept here. I have pointed out several times that it may seem to some that there is no need to overexplain some things, to complicate, but believe it from negative experiences in practice is really necessary. In the debate in principle, I have pointed out that as far as founding rights are concerned, the transfer of founding rights is in the process and, if we are talking about primary schools, the National Council of the Hungarian National Community means, the founding rights are transferred from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Council of the Hungarian National Community. It's about 20 elementary schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Unfortunately, this procedure is extremely slow, problematic, regardless of the good will, probably both sides, and I hope that in the near future the transfer of founding rights, at least a few schools or at least one, which I have already mentioned and which has indeed done everything as the ministry has requested, or the school board of the Cannativir elementary school has brought agreement, but there is still a hope that, as soon as the ministry has accepted this amendment, that it will indeed go in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19191	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic, you have one minute and 35 seconds at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19192	Okay, it's from group time. I was hoping that the minister and members of the ministry who are here today would convince him not to accept this amendment right now. That's what I was talking about, I mean yesterday morning, though I made one mistake, so I got a heads-up from my colleagues, though, texting that there was no procedure for the transfer of founding rights, but it's ongoing. I thought the minister would really appreciate the argument, and I spoke repeatedly about why one national council, not only of the Hungarian national minorities, could not have founding rights in the educational institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19193	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, master of Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Mileno Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac together submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Svetislava Bulajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19194	We won't be long, I just wanted to act like someone who's a real and a little nomotechnic. It's terrible how we treat our authorities and their competences, and it's often euphemisms, it's clear that what you're saying in your explanation that, for reasons of integrity, any change in the name or part of the current Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, that amendment has been rejected. I really doubt that anyone will dare to abolish the Ministry of Justice, especially when it comes to such a problem, which is the protection of human and minority rights. I think we need to help make the rules a little bit more legible, because when you read the overall sentence – the authority responsible for applying the rules on human and minority rights, it really sounds completely inadequate about what we teach students at the Law School and I urge you to get a hold of yourself, I'm sure that the Ministry of Justice, at least while formal democracy is at work, won't end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19195	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Ljiljana Lucic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19196	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, this is an amendment relating to the possibility that when electing a director of a pre-school institution, after a competition, the decisions of the board of directors, before the agreement of the minister, the documents should be forwarded to the founders of a pre-school institution, and these are local self-governments, or municipalities and cities. This is how I formulated the amendment, although I personally think it would be even more celebular and even rational that only local self-government, therefore municipalities or cities, give consent to the selection process of the director of the preschool institution. In an explanation for the refusal of amendments from the ministry, they say the amendment should not be accepted because the election decision is being taken by the founder through his representatives in the institution's board of directors. First of all, I think the selection of directors ends on the competition committee, or on the board of directors. The ministry, the minister, gives its consent by assessing whether the law is respected, whether the procedure was right, so it does not choose, I hope it does not choose, that the commission or the board of directors does so, so giving jurisdiction to the founder, the municipality or the city to give consent would not in fact be the selection of directors but the verification by the founders, whether the whole procedure is based on the law. Personally, I think that the entire election procedure should be completed by local self-government. I've made an amendment to point out one illogicality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19197	You're out of time, Mrs. Lucic. Anyone else want a word? The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The amendments with the correction together were submitted by the MPs Gordana Comic and Jovana Mehandzic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the corrections have not been made. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the corrections have not been made. Does anyone want a word? Parliamentarians Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society submitted the amendment to Article 19. Proposer representative Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, accepted the amendment at the committee session, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 23rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Balša Bozovic and Vladimir Gordic, the MP of Natasa Vukkovic and the joint MPs Gordana Comic and Jovana Mehandzic submitted together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vladimir Gordic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19198	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, fellow MPs, is proposing to delete this member because we consider this a step backwards from the existing legislative solutions, which have provided for mandatory enrolment for all children in school, and an assessment of the need for support only after enrolment. This member is contrary to Article 98's 1st position, which states that every child, in addition to this preschool prep programme, exists as mandatory since 2005 and 2006, so that I do not see the purpose of having children who have already passed the preparatory programme return to this level, but on the contrary, according to legal solutions, to enable them to continue their class with their generation through inclusive education, individualisation of the programme. Yesterday and today, we are in a discussion on the Law on General Fundamental Education, we have seen all the possibilities of this inclusive education, and I do not believe that there is an explanation that the Ministry has given in rejecting this amendment that this is a contribution to the inclusion, but rather, this is a avoidance of the inclusion. I think that an inclusive education should be given a chance, given that it is only four years old, is practically implemented and I think that the experience so far is positive, both in terms of children, because the coverage of children has been increased, both from marginalised social groups and children who have been distracted in development, and should also be significantly increased and covered, and it is evident that the work of educational workers has been improved, because they have had to be educated in relation to inclusive education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19199	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the Members of the Parliament of the People, Prof. Dr Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and resolution committees have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19200	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, this is the amendment spoken of and when it comes to basic education and secondary education. It concerns the number of students in the class and that is, in any case, a very important question. A smaller number of students allow individual work, i.e. more intensive individual work compared to when the higher number of students is in the class. We in the DS think that 30 students are too in class, that there can't be serious individual work. I think it also agrees with the Ministry of Reasons for which they did not accept it, more goes to the economic category than to the educational function, that it is the fact that you will probably not get enough money from Vukic and Dinkic in the next period. In this part of the amendment and the reasons for the amendment, certainly it would be worth looking back at everything that is happening these days, and it also concerns the number of children in the department, because we may have had fewer children in the department so that they could master teaching in a more adequate way and not be forced to buy tests. True, tests could only be bought by students whose parents had money, or significantly more money, or more resourceful. We therefore believe that the Ministry should have accepted this amendment, not only should it have accepted the amendment, but should have already prosecuted someone who is responsible for this, and the ministers, the ministers, they are running to you, to say, hours, minutes, when the blame will come to you again. If there is no culprit in the next few hours, no later than a day or two, there will be a question of command responsibility again. You know that in some ways you are responsible for the state of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19201	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Obradovic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have submitted an amendment to Article 23. Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, accepted the amendment at the Committee's session, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19202	I'm going to ask you right now to speak a little slower, it's hard to follow when you're talking so fast. This amendment and addition of the members, it seems to me to be an existing Article 102, is a practical alignment with Article 7 of the amendment and the addition of this law, and that is all the harmonisation, with me saying, perhaps the biggest amendment that has been made in these amendments and additions, at least when it comes to the institutions of the education system, which is that you've written down the advice and all three or two advices, when it comes to the decision-making process or recommendations on textbooks and curricula. So now the advice will only determine the need for a new textbook or plan, creating a textbook plan. Therefore, they are no longer so important, but a concrete procedure is being transferred to the Institute for Advancement, Education and Education, that is, they are the ones who will form an expert commission that will give an expert assessment, i.e. an evaluation of a particular textbook given to an insight and they will give a recommendation to the Minister. We held a session of the Education Committee dedicated to this problem, and we found it very easy at that session, when everyone said, it was a history textbook for the eighth grade, we found that the problem was just in the Bureau itself, believe it or not, and even a personal nature, where the author of textbooks and director of the Institute were not in good relations. There were some few sentences, there were even three commissions formed, I think two gave a positive opinion, one gave negatively, etc. It seems to me that this is exactly, instead of that procedure being more transparent, the will to exclude the Council now is not good. The reasons, the guy that we can't find enough experts for commissions, etc., if that was the Council's problem, it's also a problem for the Bureau, so this change and decomposition of these tips isn't good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19203	Thank you. Let me inform you, there's only half a minute left for your MP's group. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have submitted an amendment to Article 29. Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, accepted the amendment at the Committee's session, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted to the 30th Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the National Ambassador Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19204	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will try to explain these two amendments, both previously and this to Article 29 and Article 30. We agree with the Proposer, and we think it is really necessary that when educational-experienced work is achieved in the language and letter of the national minorities, then when establishing a working relationship, the person should provide evidence of knowledge, or knowledge of that language. We only asked that the Ministry be closer to determining what evidence it is, in which way it can prove knowledge, or knowledge of language. In your explanation, you replied that it was a public document on acquired education in the language in which educational-examination work is carried out or a conviction about the exam in that language. Why am I bringing this up? Accordingly, in the next amendment to Article 30, we have suggested that the jobs of teachers in pre-school institutions or classroom teachers in the education process from first to fourth grade can be achieved in Serbian by the person who has acquired the appropriate education in Serbian or has passed the Serbian language exam with the methodical according to the programme of the appropriate higher education institution. Furthermore, in the following position, we suggested that the jobs of a teacher and a professional associate at a school, where educational and probationary work is done in Serbian, can also be performed by a person who has acquired a secondary, higher or higher education in Serbian, or has passed a Serbian language exam under the programme of an appropriate higher education institution. We felt, if required for members of national minorities, that we fully agree, that this should also be stressed for members of the majority people, i.e. if educational-experienced work is done in Serbian. It's interesting that in your explanation, you say it's not accepted, because this is how you think it's an equality. Experts have suggested this precisely because there is a concern that some who do not know exactly Serbian, correctly Serbian, and have no proof of it, while indeed it is strictly, which is necessary, controlled knowledge of the language of members of national minorities. In these departments, only those who have confidence can work on a completed school or on acquired education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19205	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19206	I am very pleased to see that the minister of education sees them as exceptional, exempts them from the Labour Act because he believes that the Labour Act is not good enough for educational workers. The labour law isn't bad, but I think educators should have the same rights and obligations as all the other workers in this country. I'm not asking for special rights, as interpreted here many times, just looking for exactly the same as everyone else. ‘Why should only pensioners have to leave if one condition is met – years of internship or years of age? To reduce the number of educators. That's it. All other workers have other rights. They have some extraordinary. I'm not talking about the right amendment, am I? (President: Yes. I'd like to ask you to speak a little slower. First of all, there's nothing heard here, and second of all, we don't understand what you're saying. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19207	We're talking about an amendment to Article 30.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19208	I'm sorry, I heard 34.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19209	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 31st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19210	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 32. Law on the basis of the education and education system. Our proposal and article 32 are in close contact with Article 130. We suggest that Article 32 after Article 4 adds a new position 5, which would read: "In the event that teacher employment takes over, no previous psychological assessment of the ability to work with children and students should be carried out." The explanation of why no amendment is accepted states that Article 131 does not stipulate that teachers who perform the takeover must have a previous check, but in Article 130, in the process of deciding on the choice of teachers, it is said that the candidate is referring to a previous psychological evaluation for working with children and students. This is what we wanted to avoid for those teachers and teachers to shorten the procedure and simplify it and make it cheaper. Nothing more. We think there's a basis, and we're asking you to reconsider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19211	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović, together with the MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Pek, together with the MPs of the people, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović and Borislav Stefanović, together. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19212	This is a pretty important amendment. We didn't think that educators should retire. That we are a country where honey and milk flow might be able to travel ships, Danube or some warm seas, to enjoy, and we know this if they retire that they will receive small pensions or will not receive them at all if this government remains in power. In article 34, you predicted that teachers, educators or professional associates would stop working at the end of the school year where they were 40 years of insurance or 65 years of life and at least 15 years of insurance training. According to some estimates, the number of pensioners of educational workers would increase to a figure of nearly 6,000 and that is not a little burden on the budget, or on the fund from which pensions are paid. We know that these funds are now coming from various sources, both tolls and environmental taxis and everything else. Everything that goes is collected with some purpose, goes into the pension budget and out of it is paid pensions, and now we're going to solve the problem by having people in the best intellectual strength, when they have enough experience, we're going to retire and thus create a new obligation for the state to receive so many or less people and create new obligations for the ministry that there are no funds anyway, because we said we didn't give you the answers of your colleagues Dacic and Vukic how much money they're going to give you in the next rebalancing process, but we're going to see that, because we're going to get that rebalance for the next days anyway, not so full.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19213	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Marko Atlagic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19214	Article 106. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The previous speaker really didn't do it. He keeps mentioning Wolf and Dacic. I have no intention of defending Mr. Vukic, he's being defended, and he knows better than I or Dinkic do. Dinkic defends himself. Please don't politicize here members of the law on education and education on behalf of children. Don't politicize every member and you as chairman, please warn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19215	Thank you. I don't think I've hurt Article 106. Rules of Procedure. If you feel otherwise, you can ask in the voting day to vote on it. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19216	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I am reporting for consideration of this issue in some other direction or other position. So, solving this retirement issue with 40 years of internship, or 65 years of life, opens up other opportunities. Can we think about a number of young people waiting for work or wait for them to enter a mature age and then give them a chance to enter a working relationship? I think that according to the current 65-year-old border laws, it's enough to retire and 40-year job hours is that capacity that also satisfies what is the full amount that people need to make when they retire. I note that the retirement of these teachers, i.e. teachers, teachers, etc., teachers or educators, opens up the possibility of hiring a young generation who is eager to get its chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19217	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19218	I'm going to go through one quick question. As far as I understand in the principle debate this proposal is such that this is the result of the union's demands and of meeting the union's demands. In the principle debate, Mr. Minister, I commended you as one of the few ministers who has a permanent dialogue with the unions and asked that you continue to have it all the time. If this is the result of this deal, the union demands I absolutely support the union's request and this solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19219	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, you want a replica, I suppose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19220	Let me get this straight. We in this amendment did not in any way want to prevent the employment of young people. But we don't see that this country has money for six thousand new pensioners, and it's not the solution to send people into retirement, but the solution is to create a new income for people and these young people who finish college and those who are, I said at the best of age to give experience to those who need to learn, to both work. But now you've praised the minister and co-operation with the unions. The co-operation until the other day was quite consistent with me, until one organization or more union organisations asked for his shift. I'm not sure it's that good co-operation right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19221	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 42nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Vladimir Gordic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has Dr. Vladimir Gordic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19222	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, when we wrote this amendment, we thought we should delete this article in 43rd, and we felt there was no need to postpone the implementation of the final exam program in secondary schools, or for the organisation of a major graduation. Especially since we had information that commissions working on these programmes had already been formed and that they were working and that separate funds were needed to implement these programmes. But after what's been going on for the last two days around small graduation, I'm not sure we were entirely right. So I don't think this government is capable of putting this out in the deadlines that were scheduled so far, you have our support for this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19223	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in detail and in general. We move on to a search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Student and Student Standard You have received amendments submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Radović, Judita Popović, Natasa Mić, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Žarko Korac. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic and together Jujita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19224	Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must quote Article 71. The constitution, which you otherwise called upon when you refused the amendment of the LDP MPs to which we sought mandatory secondary education. Now in the position of the 3rd member, it is said – all citizens have equal access to higher education. The Republic of Serbia allows successful and gifted students of poorer immune status to have free higher education in accordance with the law. So that's actually attitude 3. The Constitution which is an argument against this Article 2. It's a bill of law that you've proposed. It's that attitude that says that it can't be saved on the best of us, on young generations, because it's wrong and because it's harmful for this country and for this society. Your explanation is that lately the number has been growing year by year of those students seeking scholarships and that, well, there's wonders, that number has increased to 14,000. So, if the scholarships are 6000 per student, this means that this country has an obligation to issue about 750,000 euros annually on behalf of the scholarship. Then what are you doing? You're canceling scholarships. In fact, you canceled those scholarships when you raised that scale from 8.5 to 9 percent. You're saying the student has a chance to ask for a loan. I agree with you that there is that possibility. However, where is our guarantee that tomorrow you will not end the possibility that students who do not have an average of 9, and it seems to me that it is a success if someone makes an average of 8.5 that you will make it impossible for those students to reach some material means of study. It's the wrong policy that hasn't happened since yesterday. This policy is one constant because obviously this country and this society go to the fact that culture is not necessary, that education is not necessary, that we simply don't care that at the age of 30 to 40, we have 24% of highly educated citizens, and that seems to me, half of that average that has one developed world. It doesn't matter that 50,000 young people are unsuccessfully looking for a job in Serbia. Your argument regarding the evidence that small graduation was regular, I think it's enough to say what this ministry's relationship to successful students is to the young generation. When you say and absolutely with one satisfaction that a small Serbian-language graduation this year is worse, so the worse the results are achieved, and that is one proof that there was no fake, that argument I don't think we should add anything. It says by itself what you really think, whether or not education in Serbia is needed to improve.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19225	Anyone else want a word? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19226	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this very member of your third bill, Mr. Minister, is contradictory of this article 2. We've tried to amend some things to harmonize and correct them. We've suggested that you literally delete these standardized tests that you're looking for for specially gifted students, to which you think you're awarding scholarships. These gifted students have an average of over nine. These gifted students have some successes in terms of year-to-year study, without losing that year and probably have some successes in competitions and the like. Then what's going on? It's not enough for the ministry to show their ability and talent, but to ask them to pass some standardized tests. You in law, in light of this bill, say that these standardized tests cost this country about 14,000 euros. So these tests are a burden to this budget, this country at 14,000 euros. So it's from your explanation. What are we doing here? We're saving on the standard of students, leaving these standardized tests as some bureaucratic need to prove someone's ability, someone's validity that's already somehow proven as soon as someone has achieved that success from the grade at nine. So you're really a little bit irrational when you're talking about savings on one side, and you're doing something else entirely. Finally, the result is that again the greatest burden of a general social crisis, one general fall of morality and the collapse of this country in economic, political and moral terms bear the young generations that should actually represent our greatest wealth. Don't spare any more savings on students and don't favor anything other than what it takes to favor it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-20-0.u19227	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Milica Radovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Payments Laws in State Organies and Public Services The National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, in the voting day, decide on the draft law in general. We move on to a search in detail on the 7th item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON INOVATION OF ACTIVITY You have received an amendment submitted by the MPs Mr Bozidar Djelic and Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Mr Bozidar Djelic and Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic submitted to the 10th Amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a TOPOGRAPHY OF POL-PRODUCT PRODUCTS The National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, in the voting day, decide on the draft law in general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday 25 June 2013, starting at 11.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I remind you, there's a new session tomorrow at 1200 hours. Thank you.
