ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24262	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 111 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from attending the next MP, Milorad Stosic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. The first point of the agenda - Proposal for an amending and supplementing Law on Higher Education Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for -153, against – no one, with abstention – six, voted – 11 MPs of the total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Zoran Babic to Article 2. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradović, Ivan Jovanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panic and Maja Vidinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -31, against -one abstention - there is no, no vote - 140 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -35, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted, has not – 138 MPs from a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -27, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, there is no vote – 145 MPs from a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panic and Maja Vidinović and MP Donka Banović, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -39, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted, has not – 136 MPs of the total number of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 145 MPs of the total number of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move on to a decision by the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -155, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 19 MPs from the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We now approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 152, against – no one, with abstention – seven, voted – 13 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 168, no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote – five MPs from the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be declared in the day of the vote. We're moving on to a decision. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 9 October 2013, at 10 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 88. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote - 154 MPs from the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miljenko Dereta, at a session on 9 October 2013, at 10 o'clock and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 107 and 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -25, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted, has not – 150 MPs of the total number of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 9 October 2013, at 11 o'clock and five minutes, pointed to a violation of article 109 and in connection with article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -21, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154 MPs of the total number of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jadranka Joksimovic, at a session on 9 October 2013, at 11 hours and eight minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -66, against -13, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 96 MPs from all 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24263	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The first session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 10 October 2013 (Third Day of Work) (The session began at 10.35 p.m. The session is chaired by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24264	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Let us determine the quorum. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 103 MPs are present, i.e. at least 84 MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Thursday, based on article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, shall have the right to request information and explanations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24265	Thank you. I would like to request this opportunity from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy a notification of a reaction to the illegal and politically motivated suspension of workers in Novi Pazar. Workers of the New Pazar City Construction Directorate have entered a fully justified and legitimate five-minute strike, protecting their company's assets from abuse and demanding their profits and better working conditions. Instead of meeting these conditions, 14 of them received suspensions. On 17 May this year, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy ordered the employer, i.e. A construction directorate to pay workers all the profits and fees, and the management of this company didn't do it. This is not the only public company in Novi Pazar that has been brought to a complete collapse and these are not the only workers who have been denied the rights that belong to them under the Labour Act. The alarm is in the waterway, cleanliness, sports center. New Pazar's regional television has become a party bulletin and a travelogue of the mayor of Novi Pazar. Workers in the City Administration are issued invalid stamps for health books, although they are legally entitled to health insurance, they are forced to pay medical services in hospitals out of their pocket. I've already warned the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy about this. Just days before the beginning of the heating season, the city's heat disaster was so much that it drew attention on its own and forced the Ministry of Energy and Minister Mihajlovic to treat this problem as particularly serious and particularly alarming in Serbia. The city authorities instead of feeling responsible for this condition, they achieve dictatorial methods, dealing with all those who seek what they belong to. Now I ask – what should workers from other public enterprises who have not received salaries after seven, eight months, who are not paid pension and health insurance for years? To whom and how do they draw attention to the disaster that the city authorities have made in their businesses? Therefore, I ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to protect workers in Novi Pazar against the will of the city authorities, so that they do not have to strike and risk suspension or loss of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24266	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24267	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask a question, i.e. a request to clarify the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance and the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, as a competent ministry. What is the problem and what has been one of the topics at the meeting of the City Assembly of Šapca, which is a major problem for people from Šapac and the environment, is the situation that since the beginning of the year in Šapco over 500 people have conducted a procedure for liberating, i.e. to get out of agricultural insurance, or 500 families have a problem with insurance at the PIO Fund, and they are all in charge as farmers. So I would ask a few questions from the Director of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, which is – how many, according to the latest information, farmers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? How many of these persons conducted the procedure for the withdrawal from the record of the Republic Fund PIO? How many of these people have succeeded with the request to step down from their records, and what are the most common reasons that farmers cite as reasons to step out of the register, or register of agricultural insurance companies? How many persons who have conducted this procedure, or how many insurance workers, are in one household at the same time, or does the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund know how many agricultural insurance companies pay two or more contributions to pension and disability insurance as farmers? Why did I ask all these questions? We need to know how many in the Republic of Serbia, and in the spirit of these new reforms that have been announced in our country, how many people are engaged in agriculture, how many people can calm down contributions to agricultural insurance. We have a situation where at the same time someone has to pay at the level of 80,000 dinars per member of his family, he's a user and a social aid. Does the Republic Fund PIO know how many people in charge as farmers at the same time exercise the right to social assistance through the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy? I think our farmers are in an unequal position compared to the people living in the city. You have a situation where young people who finish their education and do not continue that schooling at the age of 18 or 19, the very fact that they are living in the country are in charge as payment bonds of agricultural contributions, regardless of whether they are actually engaged in agriculture or whether they make any income from that farming business. We have a fact that in one small household in the village around Šapca you have seven family members and all four full-time family members are bonds of payment of contributions to the PIO Fund. At the level of the year, this implies a commitment of over 320,000 dinars for a single household. If you take a similar family living in the city, you have a situation where they have no obligation. The question arises – is living in a country of privilege or punishment and how does our administrative system view it? Is there any possibility that this problem could be seen in a more serious and responsible way and entered into an amendment to the rules on pension and disability insurance, so that the situation, i.e. the fact of life in the country, is even with the fact of life in the city? I note that the PIO Fund owes all those who live in the country to farmers, no matter how much property they have, what property they own and what type of activity they are engaged in. If they live in the country, and have more than 50 acres of land, whether or not they deal with agriculture, they are bonds, and if they have less than that, the PIO Fund assumes that they deal with bees, bear farming, mushrooms, California glysses or the like. I ask you to get this information in a short time so that we can properly look at their problem and solve it. I note that when these persons are bonds of the PIO Fund, they are also responsible for the payment of a health contribution, and therefore cannot have a certified book and cannot be treated. I think they've been denied their elemental rights, so I'm asking for a quick answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24268	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24269	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a few questions. My first question is the newly elected Minister of Agriculture. Serbia's agriculture has lost more than 30m euros since the beginning of this year, only because the state has not invested sevenm euros in anti-urban protection. It has been estimated that the damage from the city is over 45m euros and that sevenm euros have been invested in anti-building protection, at least 70% of this damage would not have been suffered. Since the beginning of the year, the city has damaged nearly 70,000 hectares under agricultural cultures, and at least half of this land is completely destroyed. It suffered three times as many crops as it did last year. These are, of course, huge losses and alarming data based on which the state should react, because the SPO says this not the first time, every time before the beginning of the year we present this data and nothing happens when it comes to budget increases, just for this kind of purpose. On the contrary, we are constantly dealing with the consequences, and in no way prevent them from doing so. If we have in mind that one euro is invested in anti-building protection to return 10 euros to the country's register, it is simply amazing that we haven't solved this problem yet. Soon there will be a draft budget law before us, and I think it's a good time to finally talk about this seriously, to stop this practice. Absurd is even bigger if we have the knowledge that plant subsidies are granted that are not covered by a protective net that is not in plastics, that in fact there is no protection from the city. It's an additional waste of money with a practice like this, of course, that should stop. My question is what will the Ministry of Agriculture do to make this state, i.e. This practice changes? The second question I want to ask is, too, a question about agriculture, but I'm asking it to the Justice Department. After two and a half months of holding the extraordinary Assembly of Shareholders, the newly elected leadership of the PP "Alexa Shantic" did not enter the business circle. Former director Aleksandar Marotic continues to act as if nothing had happened. In line with his party comrades, in the first place with Mr Sinis Lazic, otherwise an MP in parliament, influences the judicial authority and does not allow proceedings against him to be brought to a dead end. Namely, although the AD "Alexa Shantic" has 900 hectares of land, and a total of 3,500 hectares, the latest financial indicators are extremely poor and show that the company's duties are higher than their total assets. Courts are a special topic, and that's why I'm talking to the Justice Department. The Court of Commerce is calling incompetent. In the Court of First Instance, games are played without borders, i.e. They play games with the truth. Although the APR site clearly contains the names of the newly elected leadership chosen by the state, judges, one after the other, are looking for an exception, i.e. They buy time. Probably by order of those who took them to the so-called so-called. Justice reforms and choices. In the end, they transferred the subject to Apatin, which is one laugh and nonsens, because Alexa Shantic is a village in the municipality of Sombor, which is the center of the district. They probably don't have any more opportunities to do what they've been doing so far, and this is, let me say, a desperate attempt. I am speaking because there is chaos in Shantić both in the company and in the village. There's people lurking at each other. The situation is unsustainable. People from the same party on each other are even scrambling at each other. We're requesting an emergency response from the state authorities. My question is what will the ministry do and when will it make legally elected state authorities enter state property and finally start doing their job? This is what the entire Sombor knows about. Even those who suffer terrible pressures talk, and it's enough to look at criminal reports and a financial report, and I think it'll all be clear. I simply no longer have the opportunity to deal with this subject as an MP. The only thing I have left to do is to be at the service of the ministry and to name names of people who, in this way, protect themselves from crime and try to stay in positions as long as possible, to bury all the bad things they've done. If you'll excuse me, my third question is for the Minister of Business and the Minister of Finance. We've had opportunities to hear recently that we are being followed by measures to recover the economy, to recover the economic situation, and my question is more than concrete. If we all will, firstly MPs and all those elected by the citizens, i.e. who are in positions where we can decide and make some improvement for citizens, agree that we have fewer salaries and that we first show how much these measures affect us first, why is it allowed for individuals like Srdjan Sredjan Sredkovic to be employed in state-owned companies with a salary of several hundred thousand dinars, with gold cards, and who allows it at this time when everyone's salary is reduced and only individuals get paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24270	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, we are all aware of the depth of the economic crisis in which we have found ourselves as a society, and we are witnessing the efforts that the government is making to put this economic crisis through and that as easily and as painlessly as possible, we are going through it. Of course, such measures are always very dramatic and are not easy to express, but if we are aware of what the goal is, then we will overcome this moment. She has had Serbia both more difficult and painful moments in her past. However, my question is addressed to the finance ministry and the finance minister. In fact, the crisis did not arise briefly, it lasts for a long time and lasts all over the world. It was transferred to Serbia by a system of merged courts. A few years ago, a very transparent and very gratefully announced really advanced steps were announced by setting up so-called. economic diplomacy. This is a question I've been asking the previous government. So, no matter how public and then aware of its poverty, it warned that economic diplomacy, the duplication of existing diplomacy that already has the task of dealing with the country's economy, were also introduced by economic ambassadors who had only one task, to be Serbia's outpost in other countries. Of course, they were paid, chosen to compete with some of their abilities, and to bring as many investors and more investment into Serbia as possible, that Serbia will indeed go so well after that that everyone else will probably prescribe the recipe from us. The recipe was not prescribed by other countries, they remained on their diplomatic representatives as they had done before. We didn't get any effects, at least in society we don't see them at all and they're nowhere to be advertised and presented. If there were, we'd probably be shown in public, but we're interested in how much money in the name of economic diplomacy has come out of this humble and poor budget of the Republic of Serbia? How much they cost Serbia, because there is a speculation in the public that they are withdrawn. I wonder if they've been withdrawn, if they have, how much have they spent so far? If they're still there as much as we are, what are we interested in how much they've spent so far, how much are they costing us and how specific they are, and what are the concrete effects of their work abroad? We expect that response from the finance ministry, we expect a full analysis of it. This is what the public of Serbia expects. I think only an analysis of this segment will help the new finance minister see how much easier and even better the current crisis in Serbia can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24272	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24273	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions, one more, that often the representatives of the biggest ruling party say that I should express my consternation by the fact that we remain the only country in the modern world that has not seriously discussed the economic crisis in the past five years and the best measures to overcome the cause of this crisis. A few days ago, new economic measures were announced. They practically fell apart through the interpretations of ministers and government's biggest officials these two days. They're relativized to the point where we don't really know what these measures are going to be. The Liberal Democratic Party insists that the government's representatives, and the highest political representatives, those who lead the government politically, the Prime Minister, the prime minister, the first vice-president and those who are truly in charge of these measures, come to parliament and talk here normally. The public has already created an unacceptable atmosphere in which there is a constant demand for a statement on these measures, that at this point in fact we do not know what are concrete measures or that we cannot normally discuss why they are so different in so many different ways selective. I'm going to ask a few questions to the government, to individual ministers in it, which I'm actually going to show how fundamental the reason for these governments is actually unsustainable. This is the first question to the Prime Minister and the Government. This morning we saw the Minister of Finance in the Government, Mr Krstic, who directly admitted that the government through this parliament, I assume, will give a new guarantee for the new responsibility of "Serbiagas", on the grounds that we cannot leave people, began the warm season, to freeze. It is an inhuman, dishonest blackmail of Serbian citizens, and then this parliament, which is below all levels. So my question is -- what has the government done for the past 14 and a half months that the situation in "Serbiagas" has changed and that we are not coming into a situation where we are giving them the guarantee again probably of several hundred million euros? What is the chance to succeed any reform, any belt tightening if "Serbiagasu" is given a new guarantee? First, that guarantee is not foreseen in the budget. No serious fundamental reform of the restructuring of "Srbigas" has been taken. I am not interested in media discussions between the energy minister and the director of "Srbigas". You are the same coalition and solve your problems among yourselves. The second question - did the government initiate a procedure for abolishing the mediators in gas imports? A few percent of the commission is a couple of tens of millions of dollars each year of direct loss. It's been six or seven years now. Before asking parliament for a new guarantee for "Srbigas" which some people will be returning early, and I remind you and the Serbian Government that these are loans that are already being charged at an interest rate of about 10%, has the government taken any steps to make this kind of savings? The second question is about another public enterprise. It is called "Serbian Railways". As a result of the government's announcement of austerity measures, railway director Dragoljub Simonovic and members of the company's leadership were visiting Vrbas on October 4th this year, according to information I have received. My question was addressed to the minister of traffic to provide us with an explanation here "Serb Railway" – which were business reasons to go to Vrbas nine days before the local elections were held and what exactly are the costs of the trip and what exactly are the positive effects for "Serb Railways" of the trip taken by the company director who has an annual subsidy of around 130,000 million euros? When we discuss increasing VAT rates from 8% to 10%, when we talk about the government going to raise VAT on school textbooks, on thermal energy, on heating wood, on basic food, then we see how the money from the subsidy is spent by "Serb Railways", the biggest direct beneficiary of the subsidies from the republican budget at this point. The third question is about the question of the justice of these measures. There's always talk about the fact that there's no data. I checked the PIO fund's data. At the moment, there are about 37,000 pensions in Serbia that are above this limit above 60,000 dinars. I understand these are acquired rights. Finally, I have nothing against these people. They worked and made so many pensions. But if we are now entering a situation to reduce all other salaries, then even if the government owes a political explanation – why is that not true of this category of income? That's 37,000 people. It's not that small, while at the same time the PIO Fund has three and a half thousand employees calling the tender. At this point there's a tender at the PIO Fund where they order files and the condition of the tender is that they have to be yellow, orange, blue, red and purple files. Can we get an answer to the question, other than the easy one, that it's an office business issue – why is it important for the PIO Fund to have very purple files?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24274	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24275	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as other measures for decentralisation of Serbia, direct choice for mayor strengthens local self-government as the constitutional right of citizens, strengthens the participation of citizens and their sense of belonging to their city, as experience and political practices show that a decisive contribution to local and regional economic development is. That is why, on behalf of the URS parliamentary group of all the members and volunteers of the URS, as well as more than half a million citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have given their signatures support to the RS legislative initiative for Serbia's decentralisation, I am asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia integratedly – is it ready to support the return to the assembly procedure of our draft law for the direct election of mayors? Of course, this question is an appeal, and of course this appeal is primarily directed at the political will of the assembly majority, which is decisive, but we believe that there is plenty of room in this request for each of the parliamentary groups and each of the MPs individually to respond to it and to respond positively. To remind you, two years ago, the URS launched the largest legislative initiative by citizens in the history of Serbian parliamentism by collecting more than half a million signatures from Serbian citizens for a package of laws on Serbia's decentralisation. The package included a draft law on the direct election of mayors and the president of municipalities in Serbia. Our then coalition partner, the majority and with us, the ruling DS did not want to support the adoption of this law at that time. It is not difficult to understand either the motivation which was political and probably based on an assessment that the authority of the then president of the Republic, his personal charm, the DS-named list and local elections will be more strongly recommended than the authority of local candidates. But neither the opposition SNS at the time, even though it had the same interest to advocate the direct election of mayors, wanted the proposal to, we assume, be understandable again, so that it would not participate jointly in the initiative of the ruling party, because then the SNS cared about a distinct opposition character. Two years have passed, and the relations of these political parties with the issue of direct elections have changed completely, not because of decisions by party parliaments, congresses, but because of a replacement in the position of government. Now the opposition DS seems to us to see clearly the advantage of the direct election of the mayor. We do not think the ruling SNS has lost track of the issue, but it explicitly said that local elections in the city of Belgrade should not change the law and should not be changed immediately before the elections are held, which is true. For this reason, the URS makes up a compromise in its legislative proposal, respecting the DS initiative of a similar kind, although we also want a direct selection of the president of the municipalities when conditions arise. Our legislative proposal will discuss the direct choice of mayors, for now, and in line with the SNS initiative on not changing the rules of the game ahead of the election game, in the transitional and final provisions of our proposal we are introducing a norm, that the law enters into force one year after the adoption. (President: Time.) ) I call on you to support this proposal, because it does not favour any list, not before any local elections in Serbia, but improves the political system. And last sentence, it does not improve the position of any candidate, but rather the position of citizens in the political system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24276	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking the question of the Minister of Justice. On October 1st, a new Code of Criminal Procedure began to apply, despite a series of newspapers that the code makes, he also envisioned the existence of a prosecutor's investigation. I must point out that as of last Tuesday, the law provides that instead of the investigative judges who have conducted the investigation so far, that's what the state's attorneys and their deputies are doing. The application of the law, whose bad solutions, counter-constitutional solutions I have spoken many times in this House, has been causing huge difficulties and huge problems with its very beginning. Namely, judges and courts, or prosecutors and prosecutors, are not ready to apply this code. I can only say one example, what happened in the highest court, the Court of First Instance, is in Belgrade. By the end of last week, no judges were even appointed for the previous trial. Then the question arises, for example, who was working for them, for example, the solution to determining detention. It's a very important question that raises doubts whether such a law, which we voted here, is respected or not. The more important question is whether prosecutors are ready to comply with the new rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, given that the scope of their jurisdiction and how it increases. It also raises a new question -- how much training, education, seminars, simulated trials have been passed by prosecutors and are they ready and able to take on such a major professional challenge at the moment. According to my information, in the First Basic Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, only two lectures were held and organised, at the end of June, of all hours, which I personally believe is not enough, but rather not enough to talk at all, that prosecutors, after all these powers at their disposal under the new law, will be ready to do their job in quality. I have to remind you that so far the prosecutors have played quite a passive role, that the new Criminal Procedure Act will also play an active role, that they will carry out investigations, that they will have a much more active relationship in the main search. Then the question arises – will they be so untrained and unexperienced in the ability to carry out the task that lies ahead of them. I responsibly claim that their inexperience and unpreparedness will be one in a number of reasons that will lead to a stalemate in action. A new question is also raised – whether material and technical conditions have been provided for the application of the new Criminal Procedure Code. So far, the investigation in the First Basic Court has been conducted by 22 investigative judges and so many other associates. I have to remind you, they've all been listening every day. Now from the Court of First Instance to the D.A.'s office, he's leaving about 9,000 cases. For a reason, I am concerned and I am asking the question – how it will be possible for 70 people who are working in the First General Prosecutor's Office to be able to solve those 9,000 cases within six months, as it stands by law, if they have only one day a week at their disposal for the hearing. My question is at the same time the answer – material and technical conditions for the application of the new Code of Criminal Procedure are not provided, and how to be provided when prosecutors do not have a hearing room available. Prosecutors are also expected, at the same time, to be heard in the investigation and to be active in the main search and on duty if they are on the watch list. Then a very logical question is asked which practice will show that it is very common, and that is – how is it possible for a prosecutor to be present physically at different places at the same time? That's the situation we'll have in the near future. If, for example, the prosecutor has scheduled the hearings in the investigation, he must be present in the main search on that same day, if the judge has scheduled an emergency case and is in custody. These are questions we need to get answers to, and the practice has not yet been developed. So I don't break time, I'm going to ask one question at the end. Based on what I've just said, it's more than certain that we don't have trained today, we don't have experienced judges, that we have very few people who are employed in the prosecution, given the huge amount of jurisdiction that the new law puts into work. On the other hand, we do not have secured material and technical conditions and it is certain that there will be a risk of efficiency and delay in criminal proceedings. I'm asking my question, Minister of Justice. I'm primarily interested, given that this is already a certain scenario... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... - What will the Justice Department do to prevent that outcome?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24278	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24279	Dear colleagues, I ask the question of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, given that the sector to which the issue is addressed is in the ministry, it is logical to ask the question to the Minister of Resort, and it concerns that the work of the Department of Combat-Inhabitation within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has recently been reduced to the implementation of these audits of the rights of martial and disability, primarily to military people with disabilities. In fact, several hundred, let me say a thousand citizens of our country, who have exercised the right to a military disability, are slowly losing that right by making a solution to this sector, primarily as a second-degree body, by abolishing solutions, by abolishing adjudications, thereby eliminating people with disabilities, which is something that is fundamental to these people's existence. There is no possibility of reviewing the rights acquired, that the rights should be abolished. However, in principle ministries, Mr Ljubisa Veličkovic, in violation of all possible norms and laws, simply signs solutions, people remain without permission, remain without disability. In the Administrative Court where disputes are initiated, almost all of them receive back the same rights, and the same disability, and thus Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia are largely damaged, paying for judicial costs, legal services, etc. I ask the minister to answer me - what will he do to bring order into this sector, in order to apply the law and regulations, and not the authority to make decisions and decisions? The second question concerns the same thing with the Ministry of Labour, first of all for the minister – how long has the investigation come about building apartments for wartime wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters? Three, four years ago, a project was completed where the government of Czarevina Japan donated six million dollars to the government of Serbia, to build over 300 apartments for families of fallen fighters and wartime military invalids. This was largely done, however, almost most of these apartments are now empty, because first of all work on those apartments was done in a wild way, unsuitable for housing, small squares, etc., without talking about the division itself, how the discriminatory rule that the ministry had previously adopted and which made it impossible for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all those born in Serbia, to be able to compete at all in such a single contest, to get an apartment and resolve their housing issue. Of course, I am aware that the MUP is in the process of carrying out activities, when it comes to investigating this, about the quality and the way it was done. Since it is 12 cities in Serbia, I ask the question of the minister – when, how and how far did this investigation take? I ask the third question to the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. It is in some way related to these previous two questions. That is to say, when will the Assembly's session agenda set up a law on combat-involvement protection? We are the only country in the region that has not properly solved the protection of disabled fighters and families of fallen fighters from past wars, but we are relying on the 1998 Law, which largely devises everything these people have done defending this country. The law has been in the process for a year and a half. He's been renewed, of course, in this new council. The law was also supported by citizens of Serbia with 30,100 signatures, as an initiative for civil life, plus my signature as legislator. Therefore, I expect this law to be on the agenda in the coming period as soon as possible, and therefore all of these previous issues raised from this domain will simply lose its meaning because everything will be legally arranged and transparent, visible to all built-up Serbia, and above all for the benefit of the users of the fighting and disability protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24280	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24281	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Agriculture. On January 22nd of this year, when we discussed incentives in agriculture, then Minister Knezevic announced the development of a national strategy in agriculture, saying it was just in progress. We haven't heard anything about it since. I wonder if the new minister's option is to make that strategy and when it will be in front of the Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24282	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24283	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions for all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The other day we heard new measures to save the government of the Republic of Serbia, which I need not know how much money they provide in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Yesterday we had a chance to see in practice what new austerity measures look like. A hundred cars from the government of the Republic of Serbia and public enterprises, with all rotational lights, of which at least five-sixths have no right to those rotational lights, headed to Vrbas. One hundred cars times 45 liters of fuel, as spent by an average car from 4,000 cubic metres to Vrbasa, times 152 dinars, how much is a liter of fuel, times eight weekends, as long as it's done uninterrupted, it's five and a half million dinars. In the state of Serbia, where there is no money for stents, there is no money for cytostatics, there is money for the SNS campaign on the cost of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Then what is the play and sketch of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, who says at the same session – you will not pass those trips, this will not pass under paragraph eight? "What are these BIA members doing, why are they going to Korea? “ I guess they find a lecturer for the safety academy. But why does everyone go in this number in Vrbas, we don't know that, and we didn't get that answer. Unfortunately, not only is the government complete on the cost of Serbian citizens, and for the SNS account, in the form of a criminal expedition, visited Vrbas, but today the president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia goes there, as he likes to say, Tomislav Nikolic. I have a question for him, too. Why is he going to Vrbas today? To strengthen the SNS campaign, because there is a billboard waiting for him at the entrance to Vrbas "Welcome, President, your SNS". Where's the Anti-Corruption Agency to see taxpayers spend money? Is that why the austerity measures are? Is that why the policy of blunt knives is after the politics of rusty spoons? I must tell you that the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Vrbasa see it, but I demand that the Anti-Corruption Agency see it as well. I have a question for the Anti-Corruption Agency – what will the people who work at the Anti-Corruption Agency do and will they follow the campaign costs of local elections in Vrbas? I believe that this is an irrational pairing of citizens of the Republic of Serbia at a time when Serbia is struggling to raise money for our young people who have been killed in America, when the rightful father of this young man asks – there was money for Miladin Kovacevic, and for my son there is no money, when people in Vrbas are waiting for stents to be installed, waiting for the order to arrive at the cytostatics. Will those citizens of Vrbasa be better off when they see a wagon of 100 armored vehicles with rotational lights in Vrbas? Will it be easier for these citizens to endure health problems, while they are on endless waiting lines, when they see a column of 100 armored cars led by Aleksandar Vukic, who wants to save? If that's how you want to save, then don't do it in the interest of the Serbian citizens, but say what you're doing in the interest of your party. Not to mention that extraordinary press conference at the FK "Red Star", where you brought Dragan Djajic at midnight and then we saw what it looks like to stabilize the opportunity in "Red Star", but you also took that "Red Star" to Vrbas to play a football game. This has not been seen in the history of parliamentaryism. I underline it once again – I hope the Anti-Corruption Agency sees it. Of course, I expect the insurmountable Acai Lukas to be there. I'll just remind you, when there was a campaign in Zajecar, they couldn't have police interceptors stopping your armored jeeps that were chasing over 200 an hour, with all the rotations they had no rights to. Am I lying? So look at the reports of Saša Mirkovic stopping on the highway at Jagodina. I saw it myself. Not to tell you how many armored cars flew 200 an hour yesterday to get there in time for the start of the Vrbas campaign. I demand an answer from the Anti-Corruption Agency to the question – are the campaign costs followed and what does the President of the Republic and all citizens, Tomislav Nikolic, do today in Vrbas and whose expenses he travels there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24284	The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24285	Thank you, Chairman. My parliamentary question is addressed to the Ministry of Health, and it concerns our fellow health associates, experts in the field of clinical chemistry and laboratory medicine. The question is – when will be the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 057 from 2011, art. 198a and 198b, regarding the issue of a medical associate license employed in medical laboratories with higher education? Does this profile of higher education work on the same jobs as doctors and pharmacists? If it works, when will it be looked at in terms of validation of the results of the treatment, as regards fellow health profile, pay grade, licensing, feelings of mobbing, etc.? Since we are pursuing European standards in all spheres of life, I hope that a European standard will also be introduced in this sphere, which is a standard of multidisciplinaryism. I would further ask, seven days ago, I personally saw Mr. Pajtic and former Belgrade Mayor, Mr. Gilas, as well as the province officials with official cars and security, so I ask - were the costs of staying of the DS officials being financed from the province budget of Vojvodina or from the city budget of Belgrade City? I am very glad that my colleague from DS, Milivojevic, was at a gathering in Vrbas, so he heard and learned something from the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Finally, I would say, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today is the World Day of Mental Health. World Mental Health Day is a time to remind ourselves of the need for psychiatric reform and humane treatment of psychiatric patients, which began several years ago in Nis. The Serbian Progressive Party strongly supports reform and advocates the introduction of a concept of protection of mental health in the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24286	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milorad Stosic. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that I am in addition to the representatives of the motions Dr. Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, invited the sittings to attend both Stevan Nikcevic and Stefan Lazarevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, Mr. Ljiljana Stanković, Dusan Protic and Bojana Todorovic, Jelena Marjanović and Nebojsa Vasiljevic, Assistant Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, Milan Dobrijevic, Head of the Foreign and Telecommunications Ministry of Foreign and Telecommunications, Jasmina Roskovic, Head of Foreign and Telecommunications Department of Foreign Trade and Telecommunications and Ljiljana Milić, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Telecommunications and Telecommunications and Jasmina Kostic, adviser at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Telecommunications. We continue our work with a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in points 2 to 8 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and joint search on drafts of the agenda under points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which shall be attached. There's plenty of time in the material. I ask the MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately, with the order of Members of Parliament on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle-based Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Transport Intermediation and Immobilisation; Proposal for a Law on Export and Import of Goods of Double Purpose; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade; Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Competition Act; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the field of Information and Communication Technologies; Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of an Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on Mutual Encouraging and the Protection of Investments and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Morocco on the establishment of a Mixed Trade Commission on Trade, Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation. Does the President of Proposer Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24287	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you have heard before you, are amending two laws, adopting two brand-new laws and three ratification laws. Let me give a very brief explanation of some of the legal proposals we're discussing today. The first law on intermediation and transport and the law on immovableity, we make a whole new law, that this is an area that has so far not been legally regulated, although estimates say that some 110 billion dinars are on an annual level, that the total value of the immovable market is. That also estimates that one half, up to two-thirds of waste on illegal traffic or non-registered traffic, are legal agencies operating on the market. We in Serbia today have about 300 businesses operating in the real estate market as well as 800 entrepreneurs, and the number of agencies operating illegally is assumed to be significantly higher. This makes it clear that the state has no data, not even on the transactions made, that I am not talking about the damage that is done to the Republic of Serbia's budget because of not charging revenues, and also huge cash transactions are not in any way within the legal cash flows. Therefore, there was a need to regulate this area in a comprehensive manner by adopting such a law, whose primary objective is to ensure legal certainty for citizens and legal persons in the use of services of transport intermediaries and the lease of immovable property. In other words, the legislators sought and sought to put order first and foremost in the work of the agencies on the market, while respecting all EU standards in this area, although I must say this, this is one area that is not subject to harmonisation with the EU because this is primarily the obligation of the national legislation of the EU member states, but there are relevant standards that all countries respect. In this way we also try to reduce the black and grey market as much as possible, and on the other hand to facilitate the work of the agencies that are legally operating on the market. We believe that by adopting this law, we will increase competition and competition on the market among economic operators dealing with real estate traffic, thus creating as much as the conditions for the arrival of foreign investment and investors. I'll talk very briefly about some legal solutions. One of the basic legal solutions concerns the conditions for the exercise of activity, and this precisely defines that only business operators, therefore entrepreneurs and companies that are registered in the register of intermediaries, can carry out interventions. So we're introducing a register of intermediaries that will be conducted in the ministry, regularly update and that every participant on the market, whether it's a buyer, a creditor, a seller, will be able to see which agencies are legally operating in accordance with the laws of this country and, of course, with this law that I believe we'll pass. Also, in order for the entrepreneur to carry out the activities of the intervention, he or the person working with him to have a professional examination for the interventions. What is important from the point of view, above all, customers and co-owners and all other market participants. With this law, the intermediary will be obliged to pay the annual insurance premium for possible damages that can be caused to the employer by carrying out mediation operations. You will see in the legislative proposal the exact amounts of the insurance funds paid which can be provided by the intermediary so that it can be entered in the register. After the law has been passed within six months, a sublaw must be adopted. It's about seven regulations that the ministry will be obliged to bring in within six months. However, there are certain provisions of the law that will have a delayed start of application. You're assuming it's those parts that concern register registration and insurance payments. These provisions of the law will take effect 18 months later, we assume that that is enough time for the agencies to adapt to the new conditions of business. The first attempt to pass this law was in 2009, then in 2011, and then public debates were held where there was no agreement between those who were directly interested in the adoption of this law. We have now had a two-month public debate with the participation of a large number of stakeholders. The bill was forwarded to 119 addresses, professional public, various organisations, agencies dealing with this job, NGOs, other state institutions. We got 42 suggestions with suggestions. A good part of these proposals is included in the text of the proposal for this law. As for the Law on Exports and Imports of Double Purpose, this is the Law that was also adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in January 2012 and forwarded to the Assembly, but was withdrawn from the assembly procedure due to the elections. With more legal-technical changes, you have the text of the law before you, which has already been adopted once by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then Serbia proved to be the only country in the region that still has law from the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which was a law that regulated the area of foreign trade, arms, military equipment and dual-use goods. All other countries have passed special laws, separated the trade of double-use goods from arms trafficking and military equipment. This law is what we do. On the other hand, the need to comply with EU standards and the relevant conventions and rules Serbia has either joined or intends to join has been evident. Therefore, the first law was passed in 2005 at the level of the state community and was practically new in the sense that the first time the area of trade, arms and military equipment was separated from the military to the civil sector, i.e. transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Trade. The essence of these changes, in addition to this harmonisation that I was talking about, on the one hand with EU standards and on the other hand with international conventions and agreements, is to ensure a firm control system in this area and eliminate the possibility of unwanted exports and trade in these products. It was one of the basic requirements of the EU as well. I'm also going to say something about new legal solutions to the current law in this area. In fact, the concept of a comprehensive clause is introduced, which is defined in a modern way. What does that mean? This means that the list of goods which may serve double purposes is extended and for which the authorisation of competent institutions must be sought. This was one of the provisions on which the EU specifically insisted. An obligation shall be introduced to obtain authorisation for the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance services. The period of validity of the permit has been up to now for a year, and now it leaves the possibility of an automatic extension for another six months, which is also a newspaper. The deadline for deciding on export requirements is 10 days from obtaining special consent from the Ministry of Trade. So the total deadline to respond to the request is a month, and within that time period they must give their consent to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Foreign Ministry and the BIA. From that date on, within 10 days, the Ministry of Foreign Trade must give a final solution, i.e. an export licence or an import licence. The paper is that it is possible, in certain situations, to issue a licence in a reduced procedure and without obtaining all consent from the competent authorities, which are situations where exports or imports of goods for the purposes of the Republic of Serbia or other State, or when it comes to providing humanitarian aid or donations in emergency cases. Also, the paper is that, in addition to refusing and withdrawing the licenses issued, the possibility of a change has already been introduced. The other solutions are more or less solutions taken from the applicable Law in this area. I must say that representatives of the European Commission participated in the draft law. As I have already pointed out, we had absolute agreement on solutions, because they are in line with the current EU standards as well as the current conventions in this area. As for the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition, it is an extremely important law, and I do not need to stress this in particular. The first law in this area was adopted in 2005, when the Competition Protection Commission was established as an independent regulatory body. After four years of work, a new Competition Protection Act was adopted in 2009, where the Commission was strengthened competences in terms of instruments and mechanisms that the Commission could intervene in the event of market infringements. However, and now, four years after the application of this second law, some ambiguities, obstacles, problems have been observed, above all, in the Commission's functioning. The European Commission's latest report highlighted exactly the problems in its functioning and pointed to some provisions of the law to be amended. In this way, we completely remove those obstacles. Here we have three groups of changes. The first concerns harmonisation with EU directives, the second concerns procedural issues that will increase the efficiency of the Commission's work and the third group of amendments concerns strengthening the capacity of the Commission itself. In the first group of amendments concerning compliance with the European Commission's remarks highlighted in the annual report, the first amendment concerns the limitation and implementation of the procedure before the Commission and will be extended from three to five years. In practice, it has been shown that the three-year deadline is often insufficient, due to the conduct of complex procedures, the procurement of often extensive documentation, that certain items were very complex and now we have practically eliminated this irregularity, uncertainty or remark by extending the time limit to three to five years. This deadline is renewed with every action in the process, but it can be the longest 10 years since the time of the injury. Also, the definition of the dominant position of market participants is specified. You know that so far, the rule of law has been that some of the market participants, if they have 40 percent of the participation, are believed to have a dominant position. With a new legal solution, this will be only one of the parameters and that someone who has and less than 40 can have a dominant position, as well as if someone has more than 40, does not have to have a dominant position, because they will take into account other parameters, such as the financial force of market participants, technological advantages, market structure and other parameters for which everyone together will decide on a dominant position on the market. These changes also remove the mechanism for the collection of tight interest on the Commission's assets. So far, in the event of her decision being shot down in court, the commission has returned the money it took, and not only that, it has been returning from its funds and interest. The European Commission considered this to affect the independence of the commission, even making it difficult for it to work, and this was one of the very frequent remarks we could hear in the past. So now interest funds are being charged from the budget, not the Commission's funds. It is intended to increase the commission's responsibility in making decisions. The deadline for conducting the procedure and testing the concentration under official duty has been extended from three to four months. You assume the same reason, which is very often the need to conduct complex economic analyses that take a lot more time than these three months, which has been so far. Also, newspapers that are burdened with proving that there is no dominant position instead of market participants are now being transferred to the commission, because so far entrepreneurs, companies, businessmen, not only have they had to prove that they do not have a dominant position, they have to pay for all these analyses and the whole process, now the commission has to determine whether anyone has a dominant position and they have to prove it, not a market participant. It was one of the demands of businessmen, which is also in line with European standards. As I said, the second group of amendments concerns some procedural issues, in order to make the Commission's work effective. This introduces the possibility of terminating the procedure in case I am a market participant whose business commission is being examined, removing irregularities to which it is indicated. EU practice has shown that 60% of the cases of competition injury are solved this way, and I think we have introduced an effective mechanism to solve these cases. The third group of amendments concerns strengthening the capacity of the commission itself. As you know, the current composition of the Council of Commissions has been such that it is composed exclusively of lawyers, given that it is a problem that has more to do with the economy, perhaps than with law. We have come to one balance that at least two lawyers and two economists are members of the Council of the Commission. I won't talk about other minor changes concerning the adoption of the Ethics Code on Payment. In fact, it's changing the institution of a procedural penalty. What is also an important change, which I must say, concerns the provision of an amount that must be paid by one who violates the rules of competition. So far, it has been up to 10% of the company's total global income. If a large multinational company is operating in Serbia, if the commission is fined 1%, it must pay 1% of the total revenue that the company has made worldwide. It now covers up to 10% of the revenues achieved in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that these legal solutions will greatly strengthen the capacity of the commission itself, but also make its work more effective, because the experience so far shows that of the 16 decisions made by the Commission, 12 decisions have fallen in court. We are not saying that this is about irresponsible, unconscious business, first of all, and decisions of the Council of the Commission, a large part of the problem lies in the current legal solutions that we are doing away with. As far as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade is concerned, here are, in fact, the least of the changes. We also had an old law that was passed four years ago that fully complied with all the standards, above all with the EU directive, on electronic trade, and here we have two groups of changes. One concerns legal and technical editorials of text and clarification of some formulations or erasure of unnecessary formulations. The essence of this part of the amendment is to facilitate courts, in the case of possible disputes, and this judicial protection is actually one of the key motives for amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade. We here explain some of the solutions that were, perhaps incorrectly formulated in the previous text of that law. Some of these newspapers, for example, give opportunity to a market inspector, or to a market communication inspector to prohibit the provision of services to an information society in the event of breach of the provisions of this law. That wasn't the case until now. In addition, the provisions of this law will have to be respected by traders who do business and who do not have headquarters in Serbia, who sell their goods on the Serbian market, which is particularly important given that every 25 online trade is conducted between domestic market participants, and that more or less, that all other online stores are registered outside Serbia's territory. Here the amounts of individual penalties increase, in some cases up to five times. Some provisions are also deleted, such as parts concerning the electronic signature, because it is an area regulated by the e-signature law. Opinions on the establishment of businesses and the functioning of foreign businesses are also deleted, which is also defined in detail by some other solutions. This is one reason why this law is passed, others are, as in most other cases, harmonising with the e-commerce directive and the previous law has been in line. Meanwhile, the EU Electronic Trade Directive was also amended and there was a need to bring it into line now with new solutions to the e-commerce directive. In other words, this law should, in other words, actually provide legal certainty for participants in this kind of trade and another name for this law is actually the law on legal certainty in electronic business. As far as the Ratification Act is concerned, we have a mutual incentive and investment protection agreement with Morocco. More or less, it's a type agreement. In 2007, the government adopted a model of a type agreement on which all other agreements are made and negotiated. We have 50 of those with 50 states. This Agreement shall, in two points or provisions, differ from those type-approvals. The point is to protect foreign investors and investors, in this case with Morocco. Unfortunately, we once had a developed trade that went up to 80m euros with Morocco. Today it fell to less than 10m euros. We believe that this legislative proposal, which is only one small incentive for the development of these economic relations, as well as for the other law that we bring into co-operation and the formation of a mixed committee, will contribute to the development of this co-operation in a satisfactory way and using the potentials that both countries have. It is the agreement to establish a mixed commission for trade, economic co-operation and scientific and technical co-operation with Morocco that aims to define areas where Serbia and Morocco are able to develop, solve the problems that exist in trade and all other areas of economic co-operation between the two countries. We already held a meeting of the Mixed Committee here in Belgrade in June, where we defined five areas where these two countries can make co-operation better than it is today. Finally, an agreement on co-operation in the field of information and communication technologies with Azerbaijan. This is one of the, I'd say, newer agreements. We have this year, I must say, signed several agreements of similar or identical content, first of all with the United States, Great Britain, China. Before that, we have agreements with Korea and Egypt and this is a new agreement that we sign with Azerbaijan, which, I believe, will create assumptions for better co-operation, above all, companies in the field of information and communication technologies, which will also enable our joint performance, when it comes to the World Postal Union or the International Union for Telecommunications. So we defend our interests against those international bodies. It will enable the cooperation of experts and experts in this area, the development of electronic administration and what is particularly important, as I said, eventually create an opportunity for joint investment in this area. This Agreement shall be concluded for a period of five years and shall be automatically extended for the next five years only if one of the parties requests and informs the other party that it does not wish to extend this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24288	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) The word is given by authorised representatives, i.e. representatives of parliamentary groups. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24289	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a joint review of the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and the lease of immovableity, export and import of goods for double purposes by amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade and Competition Protection and three proposals of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, first of all, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group, in the voting day, will support these bill proposals, mentioned above. My presentation today, in the first part, will focus on the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and on the lease of immovable property, and in the second part, depending on the time, I will also focus on the agreements mentioned. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group supports the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and on the lease of immovable property, because the application of this law regulates this area that will ensure legal certainty first for the citizens of Serbia and also for the legal entities, the higher quality of services according to European standards, the strengthening of competitiveness and information on professionalism and the reduction of gray or, as you say, the black economy in the area. It certainly needs to be honest, so to say that the application of this law will have, as a result, a higher income from the state based on taxes. Was there a need to pass one of these laws? Of course, some are wondering, but I must say that there was, from our population, the adoption of one such legal solution based on a large number of problems and based on the opinion of relevant factors, i.e. intermediaries who are legally involved in this business, and also on the comparative analysis of countries in the environment and certainly of the EU. Also, the question arises whether it was possible to supplement the existing Law on Liaison and put such a solution into effect? However, we think that based on the large number of problems that have been, such a solution was not possible. When we talk about problems that are evident, let's say what these problems are that are evident in this area. First, the high participation of the grey economy in this area; not the quality service of intermediaries; fees are often paid in cash, not through an account, which raises the control of money flows and taxation; the contracts on the intermediary are not concluded, and even if they are concluded do not contain all the elements; there is no liability insurance; there is no professional provision; intermediaries do not have the obligation to collect all the documents relating to immovable property and to preserve it and the state does not have an adequate source of data on the transactions carried out, especially in the immovable transport. So the size of these transactions, type, value and by territoriality. It is now to be said that in 2000, the real estate market practically lived, which, logically, resulted in a large number of real estate intermediaries dealing with this business. According to official authorities, about 2,000 businessmen were registered, you said there were far fewer now, and were legally involved in the business. About 3,000 people were involved in the business, and this was in the face of market immovableity between 2008 and 2009. Since there is no legal regulation in Serbia to regulate this area, part of the mediators operate according to European standards, but the other part does not respect or adhere to the usual rules of business. We have to be honest and say, as far as this area is concerned, there are problems with registered economic operators. There is a problem of market distortion or reporting non-existent properties. According to the data that you have just provided, a group of immobilisers, one third or one half of registered transactions on the immovable market, shall be carried out with the intervention of illegal companies or illegal operators. Although there is no real data in this area, the cluster association says the total annual turnover on the real estate market is three million euros. We're a little different from that data. You said something different. Out of that, only one million euros in traffic achieves about 500 registered, between 300 and 500, I don't know exactly what it is now, intermediaries who earn about 3.3 million dinars of commission. What made me, getting ready for this topic, worried, I must say, from this can be assumed that the amount of a year's tax not charged is moving between 600 billion and two billion dinars. It's not a small number. These laws also provide for legal provisions, which are unpopular, but indeed exist and move within the limits of between 50 and 500 000 dinars depending on whether the offender is a legal or natural person to the protective measure of banning the exercise of activity between one and three years and the safeguarding measure of public publication of judgments. Finally, about this bill, I didn't want to do much, and for all this, there is a need to adopt such a legal solution that will provide a high level of legal certainty for all participants in the intervention, transport and lease of immovable property and a higher quality of services in the field of intervention according to European standards. At the same time, the competitiveness of this sector is strengthened which is currently underdeveloped and, you will agree, cannot compete with countries in the environment and certainly not with EU countries. Certainly, regarding this legal solution, the JS parliamentary group, in the voting day, will support this bill. Now, as I said, I would say more about the agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Azerbaijan and Morocco. First, speaking of a bill to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of information and communication technologies. At the very beginning, I will say that in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support this bill and this legislative solution, whose validation creates an incentive for development through the application of studies and projects in the field of information and communication technologies. It also provides technical assistance to experts, professionals specialised in training domestic staff of telecommunications companies, as well as to encourage joint investments in the field of information and communication technologies. To say that the justification of this legal solution lies in Article 3. The Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan signed in Baku on 13 May 2010, which entered into force on 8 January 2011, which defined that the activities of this Agreement can be realised through the signing of other agreements, contracts, programmes or projects. I like to say about what co-operation there is between the countries with which we sign agreements and what it looked like in the past tense. There must be plenty of room to improve co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Azerbaijan. The current level certainly does not meet our needs or the needs of Azerbaijan. So, there's a big space opening up to improve that. What is significant here in the agreement and should be noted is that Azerbaijan is one of the few countries, I do not know how well it is known, in which Serbia is more exporting than it imports. In addition to increasing exports, there is also the possibility of attracting investors from Azerbaijan. I'll give you some concrete information. The foreign trade exchange, for example, since 2010, will be tied to that year, was between Serbia and Azerbaijan, $6.4m in 2010. Exports to Azerbaijan are worth everything, compared to possibilities, $5.74 million and imports $735 thousand. The total trade in goods for the first three months of 2012 exceeded the 2011 score and amounted to just over $4.3m. It is certainly possible to increase exports of products from Serbia to the Azerbaijan market. I will say what areas these are, which are significant, the food industry of fruit and seed material, medicines and medical equipment, organic food, and certainly the Azerbaijani companies are also interested in buying Serbian furniture, floor coverings and machinery for agricultural production, etc. What I want to tell you here, JS always gives support when we make agreements. We think any agreement with a country can contribute to increasing co-operation and signing new agreements and new jobs. As we say, every job in Serbia today is worth gold. It should always be noted here, I think, for people who come from abroad who want to invest in Serbia, that Serbia also has significant free trade agreements with the EU, then in the Balkans region, within the framework of the CEFTA Agreement with the Association of EFTA States, Turkey and for the Serbian economy, I think, a crucial and important Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. This is certainly a significant advantage and invitation for investors and foreign investment. It is certain that Serbia and Azerbaijan's overall co-operation provides a good basis for strengthening future relations and I have no doubt that we will go that way in the coming period. The JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this agreement. At the very end, two draft laws confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on mutual incentive and protection of investments and the establishment of a mixed commission on trade and economic and scientific technical co-operation. Of course, the JS parliamentary group will also support this bill, which, on the one hand, guarantees investors of contracting countries the national treatment of the most senior nation, as well as the full protection of their investment, and on the other, represents a significant contribution to improving bilateral and economic co-operation, as it creates a legal basis for maintaining regular meetings of mixed committees, both on the one hand and on the other. You mentioned earlier, but here I am saying that the Kingdom of Morocco to the former Yugoslavia was one of the most important partners. The co-operation, which was very important at the time, was somewhere between $60 and $80 million. It was the '80s, if I'm not mistaken, so we can see from this side that there's a huge prospect of co-operation with Morocco. As for Serbia, the largest trade volume was in 2008, when the total value of the trade was $25m. Unfortunately, it also proved here that Serbia exported everything $4.3m, and imports from Morocco were $20.6m. In 2012, the value of exports was only $1.7m and the value of imports of $8.7m. In the first six months of 2013, an exchange of 5.5m was made, out of which exports were 1.2m and imports of $4.3m. I think there's a huge space in exporting our products to the Moroccan market, so here, and based on what I said, the first data that existed was between $60 million and $80 million in the old Yugoslavia. The Kingdom of Morocco is important as an economic partner both because of existing opportunities to develop bilateral and economic co-operation, and because of the country's influence in the region it belongs to. From all of this above, these agreements are an important element of future co-operation with the Kingdom of Morocco, as there are opportunities for greater co-operation, for greater engagement of our businessmen in co-operation with this country, for investing Moroccan capital in our market and for improving and expanding overall economic and trade co-operation. At the very end, from what I've said, the JS MPs' group in voting day will support all these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24290	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24291	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Law on the Protection of Competition is one of the laws that are essential for creating a functional market economy in Serbia and for further progress in the European integration process. The legislative framework is a key element of the business environment and, in this respect, harmonisation of rules with EU legal assets contributes to improving the business and investment environment, thereby increasing competitiveness and full integration of Serbia's economy into the EU's common market. I believe that these changes and additions will improve the quality of the rules, which will have an impact on increasing productivity and raising the quality and diversity of supply of goods and services, so that benefits will be given to the entire business community, consumers, as well as the state through the expansion and strengthening of the tax base. Raising the harmonisation of regulations with EU legal assets is a step further towards achieving European standards on economic functioning, as the European integration process should be seen as an instrument for implementing and speeding up the transformation process into a successful and functional market economy that will be able to resist competition pressures on the EU's common internal market. It encourages the fact that this regulation has arisen in a certain way from the Commission's practice of protecting competition, i.e. the result of the observed shortcomings in existing legal solutions that have had negative effects in application. Smart regulation means not only the creation of regulations, but also the monitoring and evaluation of its implementation, especially in a dynamic area such as the protection of competition. The government, as a proposing and resolute ministry, recognised the importance of the regulatory body's initiative to amend the law and then created a regulation in co-operation with the body that will also implement and implement it in practice, respecting the opinion and recommendations of the European Commission. In particular, I would single out the importance of the following changes: a different approach to establishing a dominant position based on the market power of entrepreneurs and companies, which is determined by law of the prescribed and precise economic criteria. This creates a predictable business environment and increases legal certainty, as parties are in advance aware of how the Commission will act in all individual cases requiring the establishment of a dominant position. Depriving the assumption of a dominant position in the case of 40% or more of market participation may make it difficult for the Commission to act in order to protect competition, but on the other hand, it will also require and enable it to see the true situation of things on the market and all elements affecting or affecting the domination. It is also important to sanction the cartel and abuse of the dominant position and punish the percentage amount of income achieved, as this represents a modern achievement of competition rights and policies. It is not enough to determine that a competitive injury has been committed, but it is necessary to punish a participant who has misused a dominant position or participated in a cartel and so that a certain sanction has a deterrent effect for other market participants as well. The amount of the competition protection measure is paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget, allowing the government to exert a return positive impact by rationalising these funds in order to boost the functioning market economy. It is therefore clear that the public interest requires the extension of the limitation deadlines for determining and the possible mandatory collection measure, in order to achieve full and effective application of the law. The existing limitation deadlines, three years in which a period should be discovered, e.g. The cartel, process it, pass judicial control, decisions and enforce it, is a really extremely difficult task and enables perpetrators to avoid paying the measure by prolonging and delaying the procedure. In the EU Member States, as well as in the process before the European Commission, deadlines are such that perpetrators cannot avoid sanctioning only because of the free fact of time. This change achieves compliance with the rules applicable in the EU. At the same time, the extension of limitation deadlines to a reasonable extent increases the responsibility of the Commission to protect competition, which will now have enough time to take over all actions and full and full application of the law, which creates the necessary legal conditions for sanctioning acts and actions to limit, disrupt or prevent competition. Also, this change leaves more options for meeting the party's hearing principle and the principle of truth in the process, which increases the legal certainty of parties in the process. On the other hand, punishment is not and cannot be a goal alone, but is only a necessary necessity. It is essential to remove the conditions under which competition has been injured, to prevent its re-emergence and eliminate the real and possible consequences of such business. Practice in the European Union has shown that an effective mechanism to achieve this objective is a provision introduced by these amendments in Article 15. – the new concept of termination of the procedure, the examination of the infringement of competition gives the party the right to propose and offer obligations which it is willing to carry out. This concept favours parties in the process, but at the same time empowers the Commission to assess whether the proposed obligations are adequate and appropriate to remove the injury done. Their competitors, suppliers, buyers and all other market participants can give their opinion on the issue, and the commission is obliged to take into account the results of this market test, when making a decision. These two amendments, which extend the period of limitations and the obligation of the party to terminate the proceedings in a certain way, are complemented by each other, as they make a fine balance between punishment and giving parties the opportunity to repent and repair what they have done. However, if so, the question arises – which is why the provision of Article 15 relating to the voluntary proposal of a party's commitment begins to apply immediately and in the procedures already in place, and the provision extending the limitation period for determining and charging the measure will only be applied in the procedures to be initiated after the entry into force of this law. I agree that the interest of the party's legal certainty is in the process, which states that its position does not make it difficult to amend the law, but it is a big question whether, in a particular case, it is necessary to give a primate interest to the party in relation to the public interest. When we talk about public interest here, I believe that we are not only talking about the interests of the state and the social community as a whole, but also in the interests of all small and medium-sized enterprises, which make up the business community of Serbia and in the interests of consumers, because effective protection of competition primarily has an impact on them. I would also like to ask for an clarification of the transitional and final provisions of Article 22(2) and whether the domination provision is applied in all the procedures which will begin after the entry into force of this law, or only to be applied to those situations and market relations that will only arise after the entry into force of the law. The attention draws attention to the provision of Articles 6 and 16 in the third paragraph. It is a change that looks at first sight as a termological and that the word “refund” is replaced by the word “tax. ” I would ask the Minister to explain whether this change in terms means changing the funding regime of the regulatory body, or whether fees will be paid in the Republic budget or at the expense of the Competition Protection Commission. I think it is important to get an explanation of the legislator on this issue, primarily because of the obligation Serbia has under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Article 73. The Agreement, which is the existence and exercise of authority by an operational independent body. Of course, when talking about an independent body, it is understood that this is about independence from executive power. The Competition Protection Commission is a regulatory body, which corresponds to the National Assembly for its work, and I think it would be extremely important to improve the relationship and co-operation of the Commission and the Assembly, and above all, the Committee on Trade. In that regard, I would present an initiative that, if the other obligations of this committee are allowed to form a group of fellow Members, members of this committee, who would follow the work and be in constant contact with the Competition Protection Commission. The Serbian Renewal Movement – The Democratic Party of Serbia supports the passed changes to the law and will vote in voting day to adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24292	Thank you. The word is Dr. Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable State Secretarys, Assistants, Councillors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Transport Intermediation and the Hire of Immobility, I cannot help but say that it would be great if we had this law before, because many of our citizens would be spared from bad experiences, when buying or selling their immovable property. The worst experience certainly had citizens who bought or paid for an apartment that later turned out to be sold to another, or which was not a rare case, multiple sales. The destruction of these people and the uncertainty of whether they will be able to recover their money were the shortcomings of our legal system and only in 2009 when the additions to the Law on Transport of Immobilities were adopted, the possibility of the same immovableity being sold at the same time to different persons was removed. However, one proverb says that the current minute is even better than minutes later. So we express great satisfaction that the area of real estate intervention will also be governed by a special law. Practice has shown that the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations were not enough because life goes faster and changes are daily. By passing special laws in the area of real estate mediation, both states and citizens will be won, but also agencies involved in this business, i.e. agency employees. Consistent application of this law provides legal certainty, competitiveness and development of the immovable market, as well as professionalisation of persons engaged in mediation, which raises the quality of services. This Proposal for a Law lays down the conditions for the provision of intervention, the register of interventions, if the conditions for erasure from the register are also laid down. It is also required that the intermediary always have a valid liability insurance contract, for any damage it might cause to the employer. The intermediation agreement shall establish mutual obligations between intermediaries and the authorising officer, advertising mode, level of compensation, special contractual clauses and termination of the contract. It shall also have detailed information on the parties and the subject-matter of the transaction. I would especially like to set aside the obligation to issue an account for the services performed. The bill regulates other relations between intermediaries, employers and third parties. I therefore consider this law to be a really good regulatory framework for the regulation of the area of immobilisation, and the most important thing is to adopt good records and the register of intermediaries within the prescribed 18 months. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in further presentation, I will talk about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition. In short, the most significant newspapers adopted by this bill are a changed way of determining what is the dominant position of market participants, the concept of concentration, the conditions for selecting the president of the commission and members of the council, the adoption of an ethical code, complementing the provisions of the procedure before the Commission, as well as the measures and the right to appeal. The law also complies with the Law on the Budgetary System and other laws. In particular, in the proposed changes and additions to the criteria for determining the dominant position of market participants, the market power of market participants is based on the prescribed criteria, individually and in their interdependence. The established market share percentage of 40% can define the dominant position of market participants, but only within other criteria. This means that in order to declare the dominant position of market participants this percentage can also be lower, i.e. that the higher percentage than 40% share does not have to directly mean a dominant position on the market. The burden of proof is on the commission. Furthermore, it is also specified that the concentration refers to control over the share, i.e. the shares of other participants. The next news is that two representatives from the field of law and economy will be on the council, as well as the adoption of an ethical code to preserve the commission's reputation and independence. An additional reason is provided for repeating the procedure in the case of an individual exemption from the prohibition. A special appeal to the conclusion is allowed in the situations to which it relates. The Commission's conclusion, which has been imposed on the provisional measure, is also prescribed to appeal to the Council, and to decisions on administrative measures set out by the Commission, are in line with the European Commission's remarks on the annual progress report and a necessary enforcement of the competition protection measure has been established. In particular, the established institution shall terminate the procedure on the basis of the party's commitment to the procedure, and these obligations may be measures of conduct or structural measures. The deadline for the termination of the proceedings was extended from six months to a maximum of three years. Otherwise, more than 60% of cases have been resolved by the application of this institute in practice by the European Commission. A new provision on a specific basis for abolishing or repealing the individual exemption solution has also been introduced. The deadline for a solution was extended in the examination procedure from three to four months. It is clear that the start of the deadline for the Commission's accession is to file a full application. The measures to protect competition in the form of a payment obligation of 10% of total annual income will be determined in relation to income achieved in the territory of the Republic and the payment deadline extended from three to five years. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will conclude my presentation on the Bill's proposal that the rules on the protection of competition and state aid control are the most important rules for the creation of the EU single market. Today, this area is regulated in Articles 81 to 93. The Treaty on the creation of the European Community, as secondary EU acts. EU competition policy is left at four points. Under one – ban on business agreements aimed at market division and price bargaining; under two – abuse of dominant position; under three – control of company merger and under four – state aid control. Therefore, any agreement on price levels as well as price fixing is prohibited. It also prohibits the division of the market, restrictions on production or sales, exchanges of information on price developments, fixing of the minimum selling price, setting up an export ban. When it comes to state aid, which is closely linked to competition protection rules, only those State aid subsidies that can benefit a large number of companies, for example, are allowed to build scientific and research centres. However, there are exceptions to the general ban on state aid in cases where culture is being promoted, for the development of economic activities if such aid does not adversely affect trade conditions for projects of common European interest, but also for improving economic development where living standards are enormously low and where there is serious unemployment. It is doubtless a series of rules and individual exceptions that our country has gradually accepted on its way to the EU, starting with current economic opportunities and business environments. We must also behave in this area by attracting foreign investors, instead of rejecting them, which was rarely our practice in Serbia. Now a few words about the remaining two draft laws. The proposal for a law on imports and exports of dual-use goods is proposed to pass a special law, and provisions that have so far regulated this area are removed from the Foreign Trade Act. As explained by the Bills of Laws and countries in the region, they have special laws in this area, which is in line with EU legislation. The provisions of this law relate to the control of exports, imports, transit, provision of brokerage services and technical assistance relating to dual-use goods. Criminal provisions for offences for legal persons and entrepreneurs carrying out these tasks, fines and safeguards have also been prescribed, thus providing a sound control system in this area. Finally, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade, which after three years amends the provisions of the Law on Electronic Trade, which was normally adopted in 2009. New solutions have been proposed aimed at bringing this law into line with other system laws, the Law on Trade, the Consumer Protection Act and the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. The paper is also that the scope of this law has been extended to service providers who do not have a seat in the Republic of Serbia in relation to the area of consumer contracts and unrequested commercial messages. It is also prescribed that, under certain conditions, the court imposes a measure of restrictions on the provision of information society services and that financial amounts for violations of this law have been increased. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SDPS parliamentary group in voting day will support these amendments and amendments to the law, as well as agreements that are on the agenda today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24294	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached the agenda, given that the autumn session has begun with one agenda, so the session has been suspended twice. Two sessions have been in place since the opening day of this first session to this day. In this way, it has actually been shown how this government is not able to manage the state, propose laws, and actually organise the jobs it has committed itself to as soon as it has formed a government. This is unserious if the Government is unable to organise itself, and allowing itself to propose certain laws to parliament for this second regular session and to lose sight of that some deadlines will be interpreted in relation to public enterprises or the winter semester has started, and the rights of students will be threatened because they have not taken certain steps in relation to the submission of certain legislative proposals, in order to avoid all the unpleasantness and adverse consequences of not passing those laws. It is unserious. Unfortunately, we are not even aware of what led the government when it proposed these laws as the first laws to be discussed in this autumn's session in parliament. What were the criteria, and why did the government just think it was a priority for parliament to discuss the proposal for a law on possession, import and export of dual-use goods, on electronic trade, on the Law on the Protection of Competition, as well as certain ratifications? So, what led the government to make such a decision that these legal proposals were quickly put forward without any other laws being passed? When the state is in a crisis where it is primarily economical, and we will not rule out all other crises of society and state, in which case it must be much more serious to consider what is wanted and what laws we will put first in the assembly procedure. This all looks to me like the fact that you have one step forward when it comes to government and two steps back, and then one turn and you're actually managing this country like you're playing tango. It's just inadmissible, if you want to change something seriously. What is the view of your desire for change? In the fact that you don't know how to organize yourself in terms of law-making, you don't know how to organize yourself on priorities that are most important to get out of this country's crisis. When we talk about the agenda, we can't not mention the proposal for a law on mediation, which really, when you look at the explanation why it was necessary to propose the law, we don't have any objections to those reasons, to the objectives. So we could support these intentions that have been expressed in the light of the law. However, what is the problem with this mediation? We really support legal certainty, support competition, support the introduction of order in the functioning of mediation. We really support quality and expertise, everything that should be adorned by one intervention. But, first of all, if we are already talking about real estate intervention and the lease of immovableity, we cannot leave out one very serious issue, as far as the intervention is concerned, which is the intervention in imports of gas from Russia. So this is about huge assets that somehow go past the government's attention when it talks about what it means to do about solving the crisis in the economy. It is very important to intervene in the transport of immovable property, to regulate the law, and it is very important to know how much money can be taken on behalf of the tax in that legal intermediation business. It is also important to know how much the price of gas increases due to the existence of an intermediary in the legal business of gas imports. Millions of euros are paid at an annual level when gas is imported from Russia, only because we have an intermediary that exists on paper, which only moves paper from one corner to another. Nothing else works and takes millions of euros for it, tens of millions of euros. And you're talking about the value of this real estate law, the billion euros of immovable property that are the subject of this legal transaction of intermediation, and you're talking about how big this three billion-dollar fee is from a commission taken by agencies, and if that goes into legal flows, how many countries can have benefits, based on taxes. You forget that the state is completely losing sight of tens of millions of euros, precisely in the name of mediation, and you are ready to increase VAT from 8% to 10%, including the price of gas, to basic products that will largely endanger the existence of citizens of this country. So, so much for how serious you are when you say that you want transparency, the public, legal certainty, order, regular tax pay, etc., because while you're so repressive on the one hand and so much you want to introduce order, on the other hand, you leave the entire area of mediation unguarded, uncontrollable, non-transparent, and that's why we all suffer damage. It's just another proof that the laws you're proposing that can apply to these laws, that you're literally emptying the form with content. You are left with empty form, floscule remains, general places for legal certainty, for equality, for strengthening the rule of law, and for introducing order in the functioning of the state and the relations of individuals, legal persons towards the state. It's so clear, when we're discussing laws, and we just have to repeat this fact to you every time, because we don't come across a proper reaction from the authorities. You do not show ambition to respond positively in any way, in terms of accepting our suggestions, our recommendations and our criticisms. This isn't about us criticizing you just because you're the government. We're criticizing you because in 14 months, since you've been in power, you've done nothing concrete to move things, not from zero, but from minus. So when you say that it is necessary to introduce expertise into this area of immovableity intervention, we cannot trust you to think responsibly that you are taking it seriously. Because how can we take you seriously if you achieve this expertise by satisfying the fact that employees of the agency, or entrepreneurs, of the one doing the mediation, have the lowest professional equipment, high school, and in some other provision of that law, you are asking for far greater obligations than those that he is capable of fulfilling, if he really only has a medium professional arrangement. When you call for a professional exam, you forget that we also have expert exams for public notaries, we have expert exams for both the state auditor and the bankruptcy director, etc. and these professional exams have shown all their shortcomings, all their potential sources for some kind of corruption, trade in influence and so on, because it is up to the government to determine what conditions it will be for the passing of these expert exams and whether this expert exam will be able to mate to the Faculty of Law, when we come into a situation where the intermediary will intervene in the traffic of some immovable property that was built without a building permit, they do not have the use of the permit, and real estate in the immobility cataster, which is otherwise another serious nonsensus produced by this government, when a law on the registration of such properties in public books was passed here a few months ago. How do you think a professional exam can be enough to give legal certainty to citizens who want to sell or buy some real estate? How do you think that in this way you are going to introduce such order, that the more concept of real estate intervention does not really mean the great possibility of different frauds, abuses, from being damaged by a citizen to being damaged by the state, by not paying taxes. So these are some facts that you had to seriously consider when you proposed a law like this. Otherwise, to be clear, this type of regulation does not exist in the EU. Moreover, you say that there is no need and no obligation to comply with the provisions of this law with EU rules, since such rules do not exist in the EU. So when you refer to European standards, then you have to be clear about what standards you mean. I agree with you that these are all European standards, it is irrefutable, and legal certainty, and expertise in intermediation, and tax payments, etc., but it is simply not about that this is one law that is being reviewed, that is, seeking its support in some European regulation. I understand that you have prescribed a lot of provisions from the Croatian law of 2007. That's not the problem either. So, we don't think that every time you write laws, you need to invent hot water, but first of all you have to take care of the context, take care of the conditions in which this law will apply in Serbia and what anomalies that this law has to fix in order to actually be implemented and to regulate a legal certainty in the state. The competition law was passed in 2009, four years ago and, behold, you found it appropriate to amend some of the provisions of that law, which is legitimately the right of the government. However, when these changes are working, it would be good for them to be primarily in the interest of the entire state, including those against which a certain procedure will be conducted in the procedure of determining the violation of that right to protect competition. So when we read this law, we can find some viruses that are inserted into the very text of the law. It's an independent threat virus. By introducing a fee instead of a fee, you are in fact jeopardising the independent work of this national regulatory body, which is really not commendable, because the tax is charged under the Administrative Tax Act and it is not a fee, it goes directly into the budget, and from the budgets is transferred, to the extent desired, by the Executive Authority to the Competition Protection Commission. Then, in fact, there is a violation of your right to a fair trial, when you abolish the right to appeal for a conclusion which is governed by the procedure. Then there's your repression, because you're increasing largely the fines that are really huge. There is also retroactiveness relating to the application of the provisions, i.e. the application of this law to procedures which have been found and are not completed before the adoption of this law, and are governed by the 2009 law. So these are serious shortcomings, which may not be so noticeable at first sight, but are a problem for implementing this law. When we talk about supporting the laws that are on the agenda today, we always point out that we are ready to support all good changes, all good proposals, if we really find in them the potential for what you promise and what you claim in the bill and policymaking proposal. However, rarely when we find that there is one fundamental policy in terms of strengthening the rule of law and in terms of strengthening the steps taken to get out of the general crisis in which the state is located. Therefore, when we talk about the proposal for a law on mediation, we can tell you that we cannot support a law that has such anomalies that it will really not improve this kind of business, regardless of what you have shown a certain willingness, but that willingness through this law will not make you realize. We can also say that we will not be able to support these amendments to the Law on the Protection of Competition, if these solutions I have listed remain, which, to that end, threaten the Commission's work on the protection of competition. In any case, for these laws on electronic trade or export and imports of dual-use goods, we can say that we really agree that in this area the law is regulated and we do not have a political problem in support of these laws. But once again, it's one thing to promise something and talk about something, and it's quite another when you do something, or you don't realize it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24296	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24297	I thought I'd call at the end of the debate, but allow me just a few words, not controversy, but perhaps clarifications. As far as hasty is concerned, we have prepared a draft of these laws and passed from the congregation. We really don't determine when we're gonna get here. We were ready for last Wednesday, as we were told, but due to some changes and passing the law by emergency procedure, unfortunately, we are eight days late. As far as the ministry is concerned, we absolutely don't set priorities. None of these laws are in an emergency procedure. We came here when we were practically told on the agenda of the Assembly itself. As far as these apply to the laws of passing an expert exam, and regarding the Law of Intervention, you're partly right, but we had to respect some real state. In large numbers of agencies, a large number of people are working precisely with medium professional equipment. The only thing we could do was, in a way, legalize this existing situation and go one small step forward and ask for a professional examination just for the work of intermediation and contract making, for which there are professional people in the agencies to do so. A large number of agents, a large number of people with medium professional training, and we fear that with new obligations to those agencies, they would put them in an even more difficult position. Of course, that doesn't mean we won't raise standards. This is one first step that is consistent with some of the realities that we respect today. As for that, it is true, I said myself that this was not an obligation towards the EU, nor is there an obligation to comply with EU standards. What we could do, is with compatible markets and markets that are actively working there, which are the Slovenian and Croatian markets, where the mediators themselves said they had the most business contacts and contracts with intermediaries in those countries, and therefore we used experience in most of the countries, Croatian law, Slovenian law, as well as, of course, laws from other countries of the region. We have applied most of these solutions in this bill, respecting some of our specificities. As far as the Competition Protection Act is concerned, Mr. Jugovic made similar remarks. So the introduction of a fee instead of a fee, the only thing we could do and what we had to do was comply with the law on the budget system, which speaks of taxes, not fees. But the rules on these fees will be written by the members of the Commission. Thus, this really does not endanger independence. I saw Mr. Jugovic's suspicion. As far as we're concerned, there could have been compensation, but we got a comment and a suggestion from the legislation that we had to comply with the law on the budgetary system, and that's why the word "tax" was introduced instead of "refunds", but it doesn't essentially change anything. As far as retroactiveness is concerned, the start of proceedings ends with the provisions of the new law only in that procedural sense, in a material sense, the start of proceedings ends according to the model or the provisions of the old law. This also applies to the dominant position, according to the criteria laid down in the previous law, to obsolescence, etc. There are really no elements to retroactiveness. This was pointed out by the European Commission and, finally, when we came to such a solution, there were no objections. But there was doubt, I understand that, and others pointed to that suspicion. I am counting on us to remove this and finally, the highest score has arrived from the European Commission, which has been insulated from the very beginning in the making of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24298	Thank you. The Republic has Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, let me get this straight. When I spoke to you, I spoke to you as a representative of the government. As far as your ministry is concerned, I wouldn't be very particular about any of this, but, in general, we do have a huge problem with the work of the government as a whole, and that is why whenever I address you, Mr. Minister, that applies to the entire government. And the government has proven to be a great illusionist, which is that it creates illusions of doing something, doing something good, actually creating fog. Behind that fog and behind all these illusions, there is actually a very unhappi reality. It is slowly becoming, I think, much more visible and for an increasing number of citizens, especially since the first vice president publicly said that the state is facing bankruptcy. Good morning. It took 14 months for Mr. First Vice President to see what this is about when it comes to the economy in Serbia. So that's what this is about, Mr. Minister. In 14 months, the government hasn't moved things from a minus. We can't expect, you haven't given us hope that something more important will change in the future. So, with this disorganization that you've shown by proposing the law, by removing the law from the agenda, by a new session, it's unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24300	Time, Mrs. Popovic. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'd just like to take a few of my observations on the Transport Law proposal and the lease of immovable property. The draft law, which is now in front of MPs, for the first time in the Republic of Serbia, regulates in a comprehensive and thorough manner an economic branch that has been in significant expansion in recent years, but in which all time operations have been carried out in a orderly manner and without proper regulation, which would set the rules of business uniformly and give equal and fair conditions for all market participants. This, above all, is why, as the legislator himself stated in the reasoning of the bill, few entities dealing with the provision of brokering services on the market provide quality, transparent and in accordance with the Law, while many of them are being waste on so-called. A grey economy, where there is no control of money flows. Services are provided under suspicious circumstances, and the state and citizens are cut off for large sums of money in the name of an unprotected tax. The proposer is believed to say that the annual amount of unpaid tax is between 600 million and two billion dinars. The proposed law seeks to impose order in this area, in terms of the regulation of the rules of business for the protection of general interests, means the introduction of brokerage services in both legal flows, the registration of service providers, better tax charges, and the individual interests of users of intermediate services, a quality intermediary service from that professional person, insurance against professional liability of intermediaries, banning over-compensation of over-indicator obligations, etc. The law defines a brokerage service in immovableity by relying on the subsequent application of the Bond Relations Act. As two important newspapers that have not existed so far in our legal system, the law introduces the licensing of intermediaries and the introduction of a register of intermediaries. The authorisation of intermediaries means the submission of a professional examination for the conduct of traffic intervention operations and the lease of immovable property. The introduction of a register of intermediaries shall include data on companies and entrepreneurs carrying out intermediation operations in accordance with the provisions of the laws. The law stipulates that interventions can be carried out by entrepreneurs who have passed a professional examination of the conduct of traffic interventions and the lease of immovable property, i.e. that these transactions can be carried out by a legal person who has been employed, at least one person who has passed such an examination. Also, the law imposes a ban on conflicts of interest by prescribing that one person with an intermediate license may carry out mediation operations for only one registered mediator. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the real estate intermediary may only be the economic operator entered in the register of intermediaries with the competent ministry. This is even more important because the law prescribes a strict ban on the exercise of activity of traffic intervention and the lease of immovable property to those economic operators who do not have this property, which is a derogation from the general principle that one registered activity of an economic operator is too heavy while the rest are allowed. The law also introduces the obligation of registered intermediaries to ensure professional liability for possible damages which, by breach of a closed service contract, could be applied to users of services. For the first time, the law introduces the mandatory conclusion of the intermediation contract and prescribes mandatory elements for the fullness of the contract. As a mandatory form, the law provides for written or electronic form. The rights and obligations of the employer, i.e. the beneficiary of services and rights and obligations of intermediaries, in addition to the explicit prohibitions of the contracts of certain clauses which would be made available to the subject contrary to the basic principles of civil law. The permitted clauses to be agreed on shall be the exclusiveity of the intervention as well as the means of termination of the validity of the intermediate contract. The law also regulates the control mechanism by prescribing the authority of the Ministry of Trade to oversee the application of the provisions of this law through market inspectors. We believe that it is a good text that for the first time in a thorough and complete manner regulates the business area very important for all the overall economic opportunities in the country, meaning that the role of brokers in the market placement of construction facilities and the percentage of public revenues collected by the state. So also for citizens who solve one of their existential issues, for example, the housing issue for the engagement of brokers in traffic immovableities. With a minor correction proposed by the amendment, regardless of whether it is accepted or not, the parliamentary group will support the proposal for a traffic law and the lease of immovableity, because such a law is necessary for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24302	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24303	President-in-Office, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are talking about several legislative solutions that we are discussing in a united debate, and usually when the debate is united, the question is what was the fundamental reason for the unification of the debate and the debate of several legislative solutions. In addition to the fact that the Resort Ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, is a proponent of these legal solutions, I think that the common denominator for all these legal solutions, the fact that they refer to unregulated areas at certain times, that order goes into the area of chaos, and that it is necessary to regulate the area as soon as possible. These areas concern, of course, the entire country, primarily its citizens. When we literally pronounce the names of the titles of these laws, the Law on Electronic Trade, the Law on Transport Intermediation and the lease of immovableity, then the Law on the Protection of Competition, I'm not sure our fellow citizens know exactly what I'm talking about. But the moment they face problems in these areas in everyday life, they will understand that they are totally unsettled areas. Anyone in Serbia who tries to deal with electronic trade is trying to sell, whether in the country, and especially abroad, will realize that they will encounter a large number of obstacles. Anyone who makes one risky decision of life to risk buying an apartment in our country will suffer a high degree of risk, a high degree of responsibility to be deceived. Each one, at the end of his shop, in the market, with his neighbour of merchants, will realize that product prices are disproportionate to its quality, and will know and see, especially who traveled to some neighbouring or foreign countries, that these prices are much higher and in those countries that are much richer and where the standard of residents of these countries is much higher, on a much higher level. That is why I believe that a united debate of these laws is not because they are not compatible, but because of their importance, they should not be united, but what is there. First of all, the Law on Transport Intermediation and Immobilisation. In recent years, I haven't had days when we don't read in the media that someone has been wronged when buying or selling an apartment. We've already heard in the debate so far, I don't want to repeat, that the number of these frauds is large, in the whole area, but in the area of traffic intervention and immobilization. What is it that characterizes this area? It is characterized by uncertainty, high participation in the gray economy, some say intricacies. There are certainly a large number of professional, professional persons, companies and entrepreneurs dealing with this area, but on the other hand there are a large number of those who are not in this area legally, and who thus not only cheat on their clients, but also cheat on the state, because they are in the gray zone. So they're not in the control zone, and there's no mechanism to monitor money flows and mandatory taxation. This situation, of course, does not suit all well-intentioned, neither does professional agents, nor those people who want to buy some real estate or sell it, except for those who are in that gray zone. That is why this law, of course long expected, is unfortunately the only country which, of course, in the environment and in Europe itself, has not been resolved in this area. Of course it's necessary for this area to be regulated as soon as possible by law. It is already said that a register of intermediaries is being introduced, conditions are being prescribed for the registration of companies and entrepreneurs, thus gaining the right to perform their duties. Also, conditions are prescribed for who can be an agent, with which school equipment, in which way, but what I find very important is that a written contract between the employer and the mediator must be concluded in the business of real estate transport. At the same time, mandatory liability insurance is introduced for damages that may be caused by the intermediary. As I said, it is defined professionally prepared and it is clear that, when writing this law, the experiences of the countries in the environment have been implemented, I think that the most Croatian law has been copied, which is not bad and it is clear that this one totally unregulated area must be dealt with as soon as possible. The data says that currently around 2,000 people are legally working in this area, and that a much larger number of those who are black is between seven and eight thousand and the participation of the gray economy is about 80%. I have nothing else to say but that it is necessary to pass the law, but what I think is during the public debate, that it was not good and that there should not be practice in the next period, we must not say that the main culprits are intermediaries in the lease and traffic of immovableity. A great responsibility lies with the state. All these years, the state has been silent on the sidelines and watching as citizens have been cheated. So, even in the next period, certainly this law will regulate the area, but there will be no key solutions. The state has to carry out it consistently. As for the Law on the Protection of Competition, competition is not its own purpose, but it is one important element of the market, it is one incentive for the development of each country, it is one institution of inventivity, productivity, market development, quality raising, price reduction, job creation, and it is not necessary to say how important the Law on the Protection of Competition is for our country. How much in this area of water accounts, the EU, all the countries in the EU, in America, of course their supranational commissions, and what theirs is, to say credibility in these countries, clearly tells these communities how they treat large planetary world companies such as Microsoft, such as Intel, which have been hit by these commissions. It is already said that the law is currently current, in this assembly adopted in 2009, and that by this law, of course, the Competition Protection Commission has placed three of the four key areas of competition policy, protecting competition. This is to prevent restrictive agreements, prevent abuse of the dominant position on the market and control the merger of enterprises or concentrations. As stated in the fourth pillar of competition protection policy concerning state aid, it is regulated by another law. The changes and additions, already said several times today, are due to certain procedural problems and what has been seen in the course of the previous work since the adoption of the law to date, but also the result of remarks by the European Commission and the latest report on Serbia's progress, clearly indicates that the area of competition has not been seen and that the area on which more attention has to be taken into account in the coming period, and to which more attention must be paid. So, I would remind myself, of course, that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has taken over certain obligations, but I always stress that we should not stress this as a priority, that we are doing it for the sake of harmonisation, not because of EU accession, but because of our citizens who suffer in everyday life, all these anomalies in the area of lack of competition. In general, when we talk about reports by the European Commission, a term which is usually not used by the European Commission in all its reports, as regards the protection of competition, is a mild progress, so it is a diplomatic term, where we are clearly aware that we have not done enough in the area of competition protection. I would say that at this point, it is necessary to amend, which is, of course, the law and the procedural matter, which means that there is a clear definition of the criteria for determining the dominant position of the market participants, extending the concentration procedure from three months to four months, amending the provisions on termination of the procedure, extending the ageing period from three to five years, extending the conditions of application of the procedural penalty, setting deadlines for handling the administrative dispute under the Commission's ruling. Of course, these are all the problems that the commission has seen during its work, but there is another side that will certainly improve the fight in the protection of competition, that is, strengthening the commission itself. It has already been mentioned here several times the way of funding the commission and, of course, it is very important for the commission to be financially independent first in order to be independent in its functional work at all. There are two ways that financially, let's say, we could solve this problem of financing the commission. The first way is to fund the budget commission. In this way, they would take the risk of bringing this independence down to some lesser extent, but they would disburse the commission itself to care for its incomes. As we see in the bill itself, the proposer is defined as another option, which is an option to enable the Commission itself to create a reserve of money, which we see only in the legislative proposal, where all those funds that would represent, in some way, the surplus funds of the difference between expenditure and income, the commissions could keep to themselves for a future period, not to return them to the budget. The legislator opted for the possibility of forming a reserve that would be used for the commission's work in some future period. It is known that the commission is the most profitable of the concentration procedures, but we should also point out that these compensations are the largest in the region itself. In all countries, the environments are much lower than in Serbia itself, but it is fair to say that all these countries are funding their commissions from the budget. Also, in the context of the financial strengthening of the commission and the abolition of the current provision that interest and other costs resulting from the reduction of the amount or elimination of the administrative measure are paid at the expense of the commission. Of course, another one of the European Commission's remarks. Also, the second measure or proposal for a recommendation is to improve the Commission's expertise and organisational capacity. We see that the promoter predicted that economists also had legal participation in the work of the Council of Commissions, which is good. I think it should have been thought, which was also a recommendation from professional circles to think about the participation of IT sector experts in the Council itself. I think maybe that's what you should have thought about. So, an expert in the Information Communication Area. Also, when we compare the organisation scheme of the Commission itself in Serbia and the scheme in the environment, but similar bodies that are national, we see that our commission does not have the position of the main economist. It is one place to consider and analyse all those procedures carried out by the commission, but that would prescribe a methodology for working on the monitoring of procedures. It's a recommendation from a comparative right. Also, what could improve the work of the commission and reduce workload is certainly a reduction in concentration cases. I've already said that concentration cases are dominant in the commission's work, but mostly for reasons because, let me say, they're very low marks of concentration itself. So, because of these low thresholds under the panel's head, there's a large number of cases. What's going on? Of course, I understand that it is the Commission's main income and I've read some statements from the Commission's representatives that the thresholds are not low, but when we compare them to the countries of the environment, they are certainly low. These clues can lead to a lack of attention, so to speak. ‘first-class errors’, more specifically, that the concentration in the future to be considered can become a concern and a danger to competition. The point of the story is to consider whether the thresholds in the concentration processes are too low. So, the commission pays great attention to minor cases, there's no time to pay attention or, let me say, the possibility of paying attention to some more significant cases and thus wasting both time and energy in its work. I would also stress the importance of the Commission's guidelines, I see that the commission is coming out with some guidelines, I think the need for this is even greater. In this way, the Commission explains its actions and warns some future situations, to say, by notifying entrepreneurs and economic operators what they should pay attention to and in developed systems in other US competition protection and the EU is paying great attention to the guidelines. The next recommendation is the training of the Judges of the Administrative Court. We know that the Administrative Court is a higher instance, but first of all, I would like to say that in one of the first draft amendments to this law there was, I think, a proposal for the Administrative Court to be replaced by the Commercial Court of Appeal. I think it's a good thing that it's for a number of reasons, which is not done, that the suggestion of the profession has been accepted, but I believe that the Administrative Court, of course where they come to consider all the final solutions of the commission, has three options either to accept, or to annul or to order the Commission to repeat the procedure. In the last two cases, of course the argumented Administrative Court must give a clear interpretation, but on the other hand, it must go deep into the analysis and consideration of that decision. So, the recommendation is that the judges of the Administrative Court, who in this case decide to appeal to the final solution of the commission, are first educated from the field of competition protection. Otherwise, it is not only a problem of Serbia's fight to protect competition and in much more developed legislation, it is a problem. Then, co-operation with other bodies, I see that the Commission is working with other bodies and I think that this co-operation could be even better, of course with the National Bank, the Republican Radio Diffus Agency, the Stock Exchange Commission, the Energy Agency, the Republic Telecommunications Agency, the Public Procurement Agency, the Commission for State Aid Control, but also with Consumer Protection Associations. I guess that's what it's all about, but I think that should be improved. Also, as regards the public promotion of competition protection, those countries that began to fight this battle long before us pay great attention to public promotion, and I think that the government and the commission themselves need to do much more. As far as the Law on Electronic Trade is concerned, we should not even say that today one of the most pronounced global consequences of the revolution of information and communication technologies is precisely electronic trade and there is not today a single country in the world that does not deal with electronic trade and how far the story of electronic trade has gone clearly says that in the past year the figure of retail traffic has crossed a million euros. So at this point in time, the countries that are most electronically trading are the region of North America, that's somewhere over 360 billion dollars, which is 13.9% more than last year. Then, Japan, Britain, China, China, is expected to raise its turnover from e-commerce to 180 billion this year. With us, unfortunately, this is much less, about 180m euros last year, about 600,000 of our citizens were e-commerce. The average value of these transactions is about 50 euros, while in the EU the average is around 170 euros, so at this point our country is at the beginning. However, not only is electronic trade our problem, in general, the problem of trade in our country is expressed. At the very beginning, electronic trade concerned only data exchanges, but today electronic trade has more models, it is electronic communication between companies, then transaction between sellers and consumers, communication between consumers, is meant by auctions, electronic transactions between state authorities, public authorities companies, as well as between consumers and state authorities. There is no need to speak of the benefits of electronic trade - cost reduction, faster business, greater competitiveness, faster consumer response. After all, it is much easier to open an electronic store, provide hosting and domain and one payment system, than in a luxurious part of a city to open up some boutique, or anything, a department store. So there's a huge advantage. Unfortunately, we're not all represented yet. Just a few sentences at the end. Certainly, these amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade, I would say, are minor, but on the other hand are a prerequisite for further progress of electronic trade in Serbia, which is necessary. However, it must also be worked on the technical development of electronic trade, meaning that only through the development of good internet, good communication technologies, we can come to this. On the other hand, the development of legal solutions, not only in electronic trade, I would especially like to emphasise this, Minister. People who deal with electronic commerce have significant objections to other laws that are compatible... (President: Time, Mr. Mitrovica. )......................................................................................................... Here I go. So it's the Customs Act, the Post Office Act, the Payment Transport Act and all that. You know it well, and only in a complex way, by looking at this area of electronic trade, can we get an increase in electronic trade in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24304	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24305	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a debate on several very important laws and several agreements. At the very beginning of my presentation, I must conclude that it is a good thing that at the beginning of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the first point was the Law on Legalisation, and now we have this law on the regulation of the area in the intermediation and transport of immovableity. What makes me say that? Because both the laws and the Law on Legalisation and the Proposal for a Law on Transport of Immobilisation aim at affirming the real estate market in the Republic of Serbia. For the affirmation of the real estate market in Serbia, legalisation of the facilities, registration records of these facilities, legal certainty, but, of course, regulation of the profession of real estate intervention, which is also the primary objective of this law. Anyone in their life who finds himself in a situation to buy or sell a property has had a "sharena" experience and is not a small number of cases that people have been unhappy with the indirect experience of real estate agencies, which says a large number of complaints in this area in the previous period, as a large number of clients have been damaged by the unconscious and irresponsible behaviour of intermediaries. Actually, I'd say a number of middlemen. Therefore, it is certainly good that this area is finally regulated by a special law, and I am glad that the motionary, that is, the ministry you run, Mr Ljajic, has taken into account the profession here, the proposals of the profession, and has been heard about what they have proposed to this law. Of course, the aim of this law is that this profession is affirmed by the example of many EU countries, and I cannot mention this opportunity not to mention the UK and the fact that whoever was in a position not to be in London, but in a smaller city in Great Britain, could see that in the best, busiest places in real estate agencies, or legal offices, at their exhibitions, photos of houses and prices can be seen. It's such an impression that it's the most profitable profession in the world, and in fact it's just well arranged. I would truly be pleased to see that, after this law and our real estate market, this level, such as that of a country like Great Britain, where all immovable property and recorded and listed centuries ago. Among the problems that you have listed here, as reasons for the adoption of this law, I would particularly like to single out the fact that a large part of the profession has remained in the realm of the gray economy, as well as the unquality service of intermediaries, with no legal responsibility regulated. I must say that I was particularly surprised by the amount stated that the total annual turnover in the real estate market in the Republic of Serbia amounts to three billion euros, and that the intermediaries earn 3.3 billion dinars, with a further perspective that the amount of unpaid tax is between 600 million and two billion dinars per year. These numbers are for last year. In a situation where the real estate market is pretty dead and waiting for some better times, then we can only assume how much money was left outside of legal cash flows, during 2007, 2008 and 2009. I expect that this law will practically eradicate its provisions, which insist on transparency, dealing with this business on black. In that sense, the provisions of Art. Four to ten. The draft law provides for the establishment of a register of intermediaries that will be absolutely accessible to all interested parties under the same conditions. Potential entrants in immovableity transport will have insight into what intermediaries are authorised to deal with intermediation operations, in accordance with the provisions of this law. Also, Article 12, in a very clear way, prohibits persons who are not included in the register of intermediaries to deal with this profession. In the same article, I think it is extremely important that a solution that prohibits a natural person, which otherwise meets formal legal conditions for dealing with interventions, is at the same time doing these jobs for two or more intermediaries, except with explicit written consent. I think this was really necessary. The newspaper is also a member of the 13th to which the intermediary must enter into a contract with the insurance company. In this way, I believe that this law will have a very clear definition, when it comes to solving a problem that would be a direct consequence, the reckless conduct of intermediaries in the traffic of immobility. Also, Article 14ust, in my opinion, to further raise the professional level of dealing with this activity, prescribing the elemental conditions that real estate agencies must have, in particular, business space in which intermediaries are located. In the case of Article 16, the obligations of the intermediary are specified precisely, where I would particularly draw a few, giving an objective opinion on the price of immovable property, then warning the client of potential risks related to the recording of immovableity, distracting the client of any existing rights, or burdens that exist on immovable property, as well as informing clients of all known circumstances of importance for this job. This is very important, because in practice so far, we have had a case of both the buyer and the seller representing both the buyer and the seller, and it abuses their trust and denys credible data, and all of this was in order to obtain as much benefit to itself as possible. Article 18 paragraph 2 also states that the intermediary must not advertise real estates for which the traffic does not have an intermediation contract, which has not been a practice so far. As regards the indirect fee, i.e. commission, I consider that in order to further protect the client a good provision in Article 20(2). A bill that prescribes that the intermediary cannot require partial payment of the commission in advance, i.e. prior to the conclusion of the contract, i.e. the pre-contract. In that sense, the provision of Article 24, which provides that the client is not obliged to conclude the legal business with the person found by the intermediary, is, in my opinion, perfectly fine. On the other hand, it is also correct in the interest of the mediator himself and the provision of Article 26, which gives the intermediary the possibility to contract with the client an exclusive mediation clause providing potentially unfair competition. At the same time, the provision of Article 27 specifies the substance of the termination of the intermediation contract and under this provision is protected by the intermediary from unfair treatment of the client himself, which explicitly obliges the client to pay the intermediary an agreed interim fee if, within a month of the termination of the contract, he concludes a legal transaction directly resulting from the intermediary's previous engagement. I think that the criminal provisions in Article 32(1) are also very clearly given here, because the criminal provision that is defined in the range of double to five times the value of the usual intermediation commission really obliges intermediaries to keep an account in the future of how they will perform their service. As far as the transitional and final provisions are concerned, I assume that here you have well timed out to apply the provisions on the register of intermediaries and the obligation to pass an expert examination. As for the proposal for a law on exporting and importing dual-use goods, I believe this law was necessary for two reasons. The first is, I simply can't believe that since 2005, we haven't had a law in this area, that it was within the framework of the Law on Foreign Trade, Arms, military equipment and dual-purpose goods, and that it was brought back to the time when there was a common state of Serbia-Montenegro. Of course, I totally agree with your argument that we need to pass a new law as an independent state, but I'm saying, it's incomprehensible that we haven't had a regulated law in this area so far. The second reason is that it is also necessary to bring national legislation into line with the new rules and procedures adopted by the European Union, so the proposed law is fully in line with the provision of Article 3. SSP. I think it is a good thing that Article 2 of this law defines the establishment of tighter controls in the areas of exports and imports of dual-use goods, in order to protect and achieve the defence security and foreign policy interests of the Republic of Serbia. The government is in Article 5, which, on a proposal from the ministry, determines the national double-use checklist and which list should be in line with the relevant EU-level list. Also, members 7, 8 and 9 regulate the transit of these goods through the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as brokering services and providing technical assistance on this matter. It is important to mention that, in the case of brokerage services, as well as in the provision of technical assistance, it is necessary to obtain prior authorisation from the resolution ministry, which in this domain fully strengthens the control of the state when the goods that can be used are also used for military and peace-making purposes. When it comes to the control of the state, I believe that a good solution is also included in Article 13 of Article 1 which provides for a cross-response of jurisdiction so that the resolution ministry does not decide independently on granting a permit, but also includes the Ministry of Defence, Internal and Foreign Affairs, as well as the security structures of the Republic of Serbia. Article 26 provides that the competent ministry shall keep a database of all issued, rejected, withdrawn and amended licences which have ceased to apply, and shall report on a monthly basis to other national authorities and customs authorities on all rules and, of course, that the Ministry, in order to better control, has an obligation and to prepare an annual report on the implementation of exports and imports of goods, as well as other activities of this domain and to deliver it to the Government. When it comes to this Article 26, Mr. Minister, the New Serbia parliamentary group has responded here with an amendment, all in order to raise the supervisory role of parliament, because we felt there should be a precise deadline within which the ministry and government should deliver a final report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As regards criminal provisions, I consider as well as the Immobilisation Act, that the fine is provided for in the amount of up to 20 times the value of the goods adequately measured and that it will certainly deter potential infringements of these norms from their infringements. As regards the agreements that are before us with the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan and Morocco, any interstate agreement in the domain of the economy is generally beneficial for the Republic of Serbia, i.e. its citizens and I think both colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament agree with the agreements that you have proposed here with the Republic of Azerbaijan and Morocco. It is clear that there is a mutual desire for both countries to grow investments, for joint investment in projects of common interest that will contribute to technological development and allow for greater trade in information and communication technologies, particularly when it comes to agreement with the Republic of Azerbaijan. It is very imperative that the Republic of Azerbaijan has made significant progress over the last ten years when it comes to the IT sector and it is clear that there is a mutually mutual interest here, because regardless of the natural potential the Republic of Azerbaijan has, they obviously still lack sophisticated personnel when it comes to high technology. With regard to all that I have stated, this Agreement provides for the provisions of Article 3 of Article 2 to enable the parties to perform jointly their experts for the purpose of applying acquired experiences in the introduction of telecommunications in rural areas, digitisation and so on, which is in any case commendable. As for the proposal for an agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco, I think that the basic motivation for signing and confirming this agreement, as well as the Agreement with Azerbaijan, is to create such an environment that will benefit the new wave of foreign investment in our country, but at the same time give our companies a chance to prove themselves on the markets of these countries. At the end of my presentation, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will also support the proposed laws and agreements in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24306	The word is a folk letter from Gorica Gajević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Government, respected colleagues and fellow Members, in today's united principle debate, I will refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Competition, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Buying and, if the time allowed for the Proposal for a Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose. First of all, the draft law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act since 2005, and so on in 2009, so far, the objective of these laws that we are adopting is to legally regulate the area of competition protection and the prevention of Serbia's monopoly on the market. These amendments and additions to the laws on the agenda today are primarily the result of the harmonisation of our legislation that regulates this area with EU directives and legislation, but certainly also the reason for these amendments and additions and individual ambiguities or the lack of clarity of this law that have been demonstrated in the course of the application of the law itself in practice. The modern market today involves free market access to all participants, free flow of goods and capital, free market price formation and, above all, the ban on making various agreements, agreements and contracts that disturb the principle of protection of competition on the market and the creation of monopoly. Of course, it is not easy for us in Serbia to preserve the free market, to prevent monopolism, and only to pass laws that will regulate this area is certainly not enough. A number of legal solutions should be changed in other laws, which rely on this area, and above all many conditions and preconditions need to be met from the area of macro-economy to say one day that we have complete control over our market and that we have absolute or at least as much protection as the competition of market participants. When we say competition today, we often think about retail competition even though the law regulates and covers the traffic of all goods and services and the participation of all the participants in that traffic. That's probably because that competition or even the notion of competition is the most visible in small trade. But when I say little trade most visible, it's the most visible in that legal little shop. What about unfair competition in the gray area of trade which is and how great a competitor to legal traders, whether they are small independent trades or large trade chains. After four, five or six years or already since the adoption of the basic Competition Protection Act, today we can rightly ask the question – how many effects have the law had on the problems in our market when it comes to competition and the creation of monopolies, and also ask ourselves how well has the Competition Protection Commission been doing since 2005 when it was established until today, when again with some amendments and additions to the law we also touch the Council of Commissions? Judging by what we have today, as we have on that most visible market, the retail market, the fact that we all know. Today we have a duopoly on the retail market. On the one hand, "Delez" with bought "Maxie" with 370 retail facilities. On the other hand, “Idea”, i.e. “Agrokor” and “Merkator” which is at a concentration of 310 or however many, is held by over 800 retail facilities. The Democratic Party of Serbia only asked the question here a few months ago – what will the government do and what will the Competition Protection Commission do about this concentration? We got an answer that we're partially satisfied with, but we'll see in the next two months, or three. The Commission will have to make a decision and decide whether to give the green light or not for this concentration. For the sake of information from all of us and the public, I would briefly cite some examples of work or work, good or bad, however you wish to define the Commission's work to protect competition. In 2011, when the first decisions on penalties for a monopoly position began on the market, 36 companies with 3.5 billion dinars were fined. The first sentences were felt by milk producers, the Veterinary chamber, retail chains, coffee producers, insurance companies, drug manufacturers, and mainly by the concluded restrictive agreements. In 2012, here is the problem, the Commission returns 74 million dinars "Imleku" and "Molekari Subotica" for the wrong decision and the wrong solution for the dominant position on the market, which at that point was more than 30% of the total expenditure of the Commission for the Protection of Competition. Another example, in early 2012, the Commission adopted a decision in January on the ban on the merger of sugar “Sunoko” and “Helenik Šugar” in order to annul this solution in June of the procedure, although the Commission did not agree to it and rather complained that it did not participate in all that the Administrative Court was doing. However, the Administrative Court has made such a decision. Also, the decision to punish seven of the best drug manufacturers and six majors with 20 million dinars has been delayed for a month due to antiquity, precisely due to the flow of time of these three years. The Commission's balance sheet was once again a new cost. Today, when we consider these amendments and the additions to the law, I will not go into principle much, but I will look first and foremost at those members where we are reading and analysing these changes and supplementing deliver some of our proposals and our amendments, and we hope that you will study them in detail. In Article 1 You specify the criteria of the bill and there are nine of them to determine the dominant position on the market. So far, the law has not regulated it. We have now given the Commission a range of criteria to determine market power, a dominant position on the market, and we hope that when more criteria are crossed, it will be much easier and much simpler for the Commission to determine who is in the dominant position on the market. At point 2, you kept 40% for one market participant to be able to be and should be in a dominant position. But through the amendments and additions of the law, you deleted the definition – when two or more participants who are economically connected in a dominant position. In basic law, it was 50%, and now in this law, we don't have that definition as much as it is. That's where we responded with the amendment when it came to collective domination. In Article 3, we have amendments and additions to the composition of the Council of the Commission. The bill now provides for two economists and two lawyers to sit in the composition of the Commission. These are experts with relevant knowledge, especially from the field of international law, from the field of competition protection. There have been remarks that so far there have been more lawyers and now there's been a balance and you take the key two plus two. We ask you, we understand that they should be experts from both professions and professions, why two plus two, why not one plus three or three plus one? When a public call is issued by the president of the National Assembly and the prominent experts compete, eight very good economists will appear who will have all these qualifications to be among the first three or four, and perhaps slightly worse experts from the field of legal profession. So when two plus two are elected, I say good experts will fall off that list to meet criterion two plus two. Is that the happiest solution? I don't know. Speaking of the list formed for the selection of the Council of Commissions, where in the law is specified or explained which determines the criteria on which an expert, if he considers himself an expert or if someone considers someone an expert in these areas, reports and who will point him to say so, to take first, second, third or already which place on that list? The law does not specify that. That's where we responded with the amendment. We believe that this should be done by the competent ministry, because when the Committee on Trade resolutes a proposal to the Assembly to choose the next day, it must have some criteria and must have some explanation before the Assembly if it chooses those members of the Council, which is why they took the place on the ranking list. Article 5 The bill introduces the Institute of Ethics. It is good that there are some rules that will adhere to both the members of this committee and the employees. However, here we put an objection which applies the code, when applied, which are the consequences, as they are determined, whether all the provisions of the code have the same meaning. It's simple, there's a misunderstanding, because whenever we make some rules, we have to stick to them, especially when it comes to ethics and morality, it's always a questionable thing to anyone whose morals and their ethics are determined. Article 6 of the basic law regulates the financing of the commission. This is a very important and essential question and other colleagues here have referred to the question. The basic law says that the commission is financed from fees, donations, revenue from the sale of publications. Now the term "refund" is changed by the term "tax" and we understand why, in order to comply with the article. 17 and 18. The law on the budget system that clearly states what taxes are and what fees are. Let's just say it's okay because of the synchronization. However, what is the second question is and often mentioned here, what is independence and what provision of the law determines whether the commission is independent and whether its independence is disrupted by what and who. According to the current Commission financing concept, we can freely say that the commission is a profitable organisation. She works on the market and incomes from the market, literally like some profitable company. As much as he does, so much money. We think the commission has to work, judge, be detailed, do a job of general interest, not pursue a job. Imagine courts that also judge and imagine the President of the Court chasing a job on the market. The question of the independence of the Commission's work and the costs of the commission is now being raised – should it be independent of the government's budget and of the Assembly that chooses it or should it be much more independent of the market participants against whom it conducts the proceedings? You yourself say, i.e. the law says - the Commission's revenue plan and expenditure plan is being adopted and passed on to the competent ministry, entering the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If we want to know whether the commission is independent, regardless of EU objections, we think it should be a classic budgetary institution. You know what? We say that these regulatory bodies, commissions and agencies, are independent and we can't interfere with what their costs are and what their salaries are, etc. Newspaper reports these days say that the salaries of the Competition Agency's director are more than 300,000 dinars, that the salary of a cleaning lady or a coffee cook is 50, 60 or 70,000 dinars. We have data that this commission pays a very high lease, not to say it's eight or nine or ten thousand euros a month to private companies, and we're not seeing if all of this can be reduced because it's an independent body. They're not independent bodies. They pay the report to this Assembly every February and how we should draw attention to all these phenomena when it comes to the commission. Another major change is the amendment of article 68. A law extending the limitation period for the pronunciation and launch of the measure of protection of competition. I gave an example just before we had to pay back the huge money, i.e. The Commission, because it was one month late in view of the complexity of the procedure itself from the conclusion to the decision-making process, to the examination of the court's regularity of the solution, to the possible court charge or to the mandatory charge-out measures. Three years goes by. It's good that it's extended to five. It's good that every procedure breaks up eventually gives five more years. For a maximum of 10 years with effective commission work, we think these five years should be enough for these procedures to be completed. Finally, we also had this remark with Article 22, where it is said – all those proceedings before the Commission which are not terminated until the day of entry into force of this law continue under the provisions of this law, but are exempt from the processes of determining the dominant position and the limitation of the measure of protection of competition. We made that remark. I think you've explained that a little while ago, because if the fundamental amendment to the law is to set criteria for a dominant position and extend the time limit for the collection of competition protection measures, why exclude them under this law and continue to work with the old law? Just another remark when it comes to this law. Now we have a new finance minister and new proposals for measures. One is an increase in VAT from 8% to 10% for basic provisions of life, not to count which ones they are. I hope that this increase will affect higher prices mostly for goods purchased by the poorest of the population. We will see how monopolies will behave on the retail market, whether they will find space in their margin to bear this burden, not to increase prices, because it will certainly not be good for the widest layer of the population. So, and it's one of the commission's tasks, and we'll certainly follow that work. Let me take a brief look at the e-commerce Act. And he was brought in in 2009. We have before us amendments and additions to the law. The development of AT technology has been accelerated. Its faster application is introduced into business, hence trade, as well as EU harmonisation, i.e. with EU directives. Short analysis. A previous colleague said, and I have prepared to illustrate, that the electronic trade in Serbia last year was somewhere at 180m euros, that some 600,000 Internet users participated, which is about 15% of the total number of internet users, and that it was certainly three or four times more than in the previous years, and that this volume of trade reached about 10% of the total trade that was happening in our market. If we compare this with EU data, where the 300 billion-euro figure is seen in total, of course we will conclude that we are far behind for EU countries. They're here somewhere with us and the country in the environment, but it doesn't have to comfort us, it should be much more. Of course, the reasons for that are multiple. First of all, there is still no trust in electronics. There are still a lot of ambiguities on the Internet, and still citizens with the right don't dare step much more into electronic trade. Another reason is, unfortunately, the weak computer literacy of our population, especially the older one, 45 or 55 years old, that I am now not taking the liberty of determining what an older population is and how written it is. Of course, still legal regulation, yet it is not enough just to change the e-commerce law and dress it up. The Law on Payments, the Law on Accounting, Payment Services, the Law on Electronic Archive, the Information Security Act should also be touched, and the content of electronic documents, dispatches, receipts, invoices, etc. should be defined. In the light of the changes and additions themselves, I will only briefly, you have deleted the concept of the law in terms of terms - the data and the illicit information, with an explanation that there is no meaning in the future text of the law. However, Article 20(2) maintains that the service provider must notify the competent state authority if it is reasonable to suspect that the user of its service has provided unauthorised information. So that's the term "unauthorized data". Article 2 provides that a natural person can also be a provider of services under the Law on Trade and that is fine. By deleting Article 11. - e-signature, I think you left a legal void here again. It is a regulated matter by the e-signature Act, but we think it is not too much to leave in this law. One of the important newspapers is Article 21a, according to which the competent authority may impose a temporary ban on the provision of information services, in the event that the service is not permitted, that it is already inadmissible from various aspects to appear and that we consider it a good solution. By increasing the fines you had in mind that you would discipline information service providers, that they would be more responsible to users. We hope it will result in that effect, but it is still a repressive method, so we'll see how they respond to the repressive method. When it comes to this law, unfortunately, they are not covered by us, all the changes and additions they could, when we have already considered this Law on Electronic Trade. The law did not clearly distinguish obligations, responsibilities and rights of the service provider, if that is the intermediary or producer. Here's one of the ideas for the next changes and additions. Furthermore, in Article 7, it may have been necessary to specify what is considered and how the moment when the service user receives a commercial message is indicated. Since I'm running out of time, Mr. Minister, I have a need to do a digression. In addition to the goods and services market, a political market is opening in Serbia. They are part of the transfer, trading to the committees in the local congregations, MPs in our assembly. I'm gonna make a little joke, but I'm gonna be a little serious. I think that our Commission for the Protection of Competition and how competition should be taken into account and protected in relation to the violation of the ruling party's dominant position in the coalition. As of yesterday, we were taken to the DSS by a councilman, the Serbian Progressive Party of the Democratic Party of Serbia. You know what, according to public opinion research, they have 41%, they have a dominant position on the market. (President: Time.) They can pick up all the councilmen from that position. Please consider that, too, that the open and political market is open and that we, who get our votes deserved on the market, are exposed to a party's monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24308	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we'll be back at 15.05 hours. The first speaker is Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24309	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24310	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have today an extremely important set of legislative proposals, which are proposed in the form of new laws or as amendments and additions to existing legal solutions. These proposals aim to achieve better regulation of existing laws, but also to remove observed irregularities during the application of existing laws. That is why my address today will cover all the bill proposals, within which I will pay particular attention to the proposal for a law on intermediation, transport and the lease of immovable property. The first in a series is the Double Use Export Act, which aims to enable the creation of a legal framework to ensure a stable control system and eliminate possible unwanted exports and trade. The second draft law concerns the amendment and addition of the Competition Protection Act, whose adoption will improve the framework for the application of competition rules and also remove the observed shortcomings in the current application of the law. The Third Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade provides for certain formulations with the EU Electronic Trade Directive, erasure of certain definitions that create confusion in application and introduce further clarifications which specify the relationship with other system laws, the Law on Trade, the Consumer Protection Act, the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. The following proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of information and communication technologies confirms the good political relations between the two countries and also confirms the Agreement on Economic and Technological Co-operation of the Serbian and Azerbaijani Government of May 2010, which regulates the justification of this agreement. The next draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on mutual incentive and investment protection confirms the two countries' desire to establish a legal basis and a framework in which additional investor attraction will be ensured. Accordingly, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the establishment of a mixed commission on trade, economic and scientific technical co-operation confirms the intention to restore, further develops a specific institutional form for monitoring of economic trade and scientific and technical co-operation by the Contracting Parties. The proposal for a traffic intervention law and the lease of immovable property is important for all participants in transport and the lease of immovable property, but also for the whole country. Resources in the real estate sector are a serious factor in the development of Serbia's economy, and hence fosters the public sector's interest in law-making that would regulate this area, as well as in establishing good practice and institutions for the positive development of the real estate market. With the abolition of social property, the real estate market literally broke down overnight and a large number of those involved in the sale of real estate had emerged. The core activity of real estate is made up of transport agencies and the lease of real estate. Since there is still no legal regulation in Serbia to prescribe who and under what conditions can deal with traffic interventions and the lease of immovable property, a number of agencies usually do not respect even the basic rules of business. The lack of legal regulation governing this area has led to the emergence of many problems on the real estate market and on the part of the consumer services of intermediaries, as well as on the part of the intermediaries themselves. An unfair competition, needy intermediaries, avoiding payments to the state, the appearance of different forms of gray economy, such as black labour, not paying by law-set public fees, agents who do business on the street, clients who avoid paying a brokerage commission after work is done, are only part of the real problems that exist on the real estate market. Buying or selling immovable property is a serious job for all the participants of the job, primarily because it turns large sums of money, but also for the reason that this transaction provides or solves the existential issue of citizens. This is precisely the kind of situation in this business that requires extra caution. Given the existing market problems, as well as the awakening of tangible real estate market potentials in Serbia, serious reform of the system and the establishment of discipline and control on the real estate market is urgently needed. The adoption of this law will not immediately solve all the problems that exist. The adoption of this law will establish order on the real estate market, but only if strict control measures are taken over those who will definitely continue after the adoption of this law with the old practice of street sales of real estate, avoidance of all obligations towards the state, etc. The proposal for this law lays down penalties for infringements committed by intermediaries, registered legal persons and measures to control the work of those intermediaries. It's okay, and that's one of the reasons why this law is passed, but I have to say that sanctions are for natural and legal persons, who deal with interventions contrary to Article 12. The bill, i.e. working on black, is small in relation to the damage these persons have done in their illegal activities both to the state and to those brokers who regularly deal with this business. In practice, the authorities of the market inspection, which are otherwise responsible for the control of the implementation of this law and the control of the work of the mediators, will also focus on the control of agencies that are included in the register of intermediaries, so that we will be in a situation that, for example, because of some small gap that the agencies are building, such as that. not pointing out the pricer services, the agency has to pay the fine. On the other hand, those who carry out this activity, and do not meet the legal requirements, or who do not have the capacity of intermediaries within the meaning of this law and who have the largest share in the gray economy and in the real estate market, will remain, so to speak, not sanctioned. For the first time, Serbia is given a special law that will regulate this area and for the first time an institutional framework, which will allow all market entities to deal with traffic-mediation activity under the same conditions and the lease of immovable property through transparent and clearly regulated rules of business. It is important that these rules remain not only rules on paper in order to respect the form or to give confidence to customers, but to really introduce order and security on the real estate market. The proposal for this law introduces an obligation that the intervention of immovable property will not be able to be dealt with by anyone who does not have a professional examination, i.e. a license to conduct intervention operations. The law does not stipulate from which areas intermediaries will take exams, who will examine these exams, how much money they will have to raise, and these are issues that interest all those who are now legally involved in this work and intend to do so in the future, in accordance with the provisions of this law, but also all those who are just planning to try in this activity. Passing an expert exam is a European standard that is applied in all countries in the region. The licensing achieves higher quality of services provided by real estate agencies, but also strengthens the profession – agents. The main job of the agent is that he needs to know how to sell real estate, to make an optimal offer for both the buyer and the seller, to know some basic things about the documentation. But given that both legal knowledge and experience are needed in the intervention business and that legal certainty is needed, the passing of an expert exam, that no one is offended, cannot provide an agent with medium professional training with all the necessary knowledge that is available to someone who has graduated from law school. You, Mr. Minister, said that because of a large number of those working in this area with medium professional training, it is decided to work in this way, by passing an expert examination, to improve the services that intermediaries will provide to clients. But, on the other hand, Article 16. The proposal for this law is prescribed, among other things, that intermediaries have an obligation to take into account documents relating to concrete immovableity and property and other real rights. For this reason, however, I believe that the law should have provided for the obligation of the real estate agency to verify the documents when the sale of concrete immovable property takes place, the Agency must have the obligation to hire either a lawyer or a lawyer, who will verify the documentation, draw up a pre-contract and draw up a contract, unless the owner of the agency is from that profession. You said it was understood that agencies have a professional face to do these jobs. Believe me, I've been in this business a long time, and I know that 90% of the agencies don't have the practice of having a lawyer, or a lawyer doing those jobs. Given that this law is also being passed in order to improve legal certainty regarding real estate market transactions, I think this member should have been processed more precisely. As for the insurance policy, which is also provided for by this law, that is also a European standard. The insurance policy shall provide cash coverage for the payment of the damage caused by the intermediary by the failure to fulfil the intermediation contract. So far, because of the lack of recognition of the rules, the parties were exposed to the unconscious business of intermediaries, which often ended in a dispute and no one was responsible for the damage. There's been a lot of discussion in the direction that all the double-crossing stuff that's happened over the past few years has been blamed by the agencies. I really don't want to defend the agencies, but it's not just the agency's fault. Multiple apartment sales are largely blamed by investors themselves. The introduction of compulsory insurance for the event of harm to the parties, providing the safety of users of transport services and the lease of real estate, while at the same time affecting that intermediaries are doing their job more securely and responsibly. I am sure that this provision of the law will, of course, be supported first by the users of brokerage services, but also by all those agencies and intermediaries who really want to do this job seriously and responsibly. However, when the level of the monthly or annual insurance premium was at stake, it should have taken into account the cost of small agencies operating in Serbia's interior. The operating conditions of the agencies in the interior and the profits that these agencies make are much lower than the profits made by the agencies in the major cities, Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, primarily because of the size of the business, the number of purchases made in Belgrade is ten times lower than in Smederovo, the value of the property is higher in larger cities than in smaller cities, and hence, the indirect commission in this proportion is lower, and I think the average amount of the indirect commission, for example in Smederevo, is 3%, and in Belgrade I think that 5% or 6%. Insurance of 45 000 euros will cost an intermediary company about 50,000 dinars a year, so the adoption of this law on the real estate market in Serbia will certainly create a new positioning of intermediaries, where the advantage will be large over the small ones and those who are longer in this business than the new economic operators in this activity. As another measure of protection, the law provides for the obligation of real estate participants to sign an intermediation agreement. It is a newspaper aimed at providing security and in some ways providing both the employer and the mediator. It is difficult to predict all the cases in practice that can arise for both sides of the contract, but here is one of the most common cases that has happened so far and which has been negative for the business of the agency is that the seller who did not have a contract with the agency, because it has not been required so far, after a months of efforts by the agency to sell the property, after all the costs that the agency has, simply decides to sell the property through another agency, give up the sale or avoid the agency in agreement with the buyer, make a contract past the agency. In this way, the agencies are damaged and I hope that this contract, which will be signed by the authorising officer and the mediator, will, at the very least, enable these problems to be avoided. Also, the law requires regulation and I think that the lawyers in this room may be angry, but it is necessary to regulate that law offices can deal with this intervention business, but only if they register for this activity and if they meet the conditions laid down by this law, among other things, that they have an employee agent with a passed professional exam. Otherwise, so far, the law offices that were involved in the provision of legal services and the work of mediation have been the largest intermediaries to agencies. So I believe that this law either needs to be denied, or it is possible for the attorney offices to deal with this business, but only with the fulfilment of the conditions that apply to traffic intervention agencies and the lease of immovable property. Article 20, which contains provisions relating to the right to an intermediation commission, is impeccable because it does not foresee who is obliged to pay the intermediation fee, whether only the buyer, or only the seller, or the buyer and the seller per half, provided that they are the employer and the buyer and the seller. Also, no minimum or maximum fee can be charged by the intermediary, so too much freedom has been left to intermediaries to set their own fees without a legal limit. It is also not prescribed any amount of compensation applied under the law if the commission is not agreed. What was really necessary to regulate the law and what would affect the security of users of intermediate services is a member of the law relating to the advertising of immovable property which provides for a ban on advertising of immovable property for which the intermediary does not have a signed service contract, i.e. sub-registration. This article will also protect customers and tenants from the unconscious business of certain real estate agencies who, by false advertising of real estate in attractive locations at low prices, have charged commissions or membership fees from clients, led them astray, taken them to apartments and other properties to show them what they were equipped to attract and cheat clients and thus charge membership fees or commissions. In the real estate sector, about two to three thousand people were legally employed... (President: Please finish your thought.) I can conclude that the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will certainly support all the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24311	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24312	Mr. Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister, MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have on the agenda seemingly diverse and different topics. This is to use the folk term, the cabbage session. I don't know if it's because the government organization is in that direction because we know how it formed. As for Mr. Ljajic, maybe we could talk about this yesterday. You weren't in Vorbas yesterday, were you? I hope you didn't go with the official cars and rotations. Anyway, these are important items. On behalf of the DS, I want to point out that regulation of certain areas cannot be a substitute for the successful management of these areas, because the situation, and I'm going to try to put it through various legislative proposals, it seems to us essentially that priorities are not well set, that instead of telling us today, it would be better to regulate the role of intermediaries in the sale and lease of real estate, that we are talking about the chaos and absolute death of our construction industry, because the fact that no investor is currently building and that this market is dead. At the same time, when we talk about the second law, it's called exports and imports of dual-use goods, it's weapons, it's all good, but at the same time we have to admit that "Krusik" in Valjevo and many other companies from that industry are in a very difficult situation again. It's great that we're discussing an additional little arrangement of the e-commerce law today. Mr. Vice President, will you and your party MPs and your Ministry support that VAT rate, as announced by the finance minister this morning, rise from 8% to 20% for information goods, is it software, hardware, and so is that produced software like all peripheral devices? To remind ourselves, Serbia is the exception, and since I am a negotiator with the EU, no one is going to sell us a story that we have to do everything in order to join the EU and respect each one. Some standards yes, but it is certain that in the VAT domain neither the Member States, the old ones, have complied. I'm going to give an example of France that has been able to lower the rate to the hotel, which you're also going to kill in these crisis times through an increase in VAT rates from 8% to 20%. This France has ensured that as far as their famous hotel and restaurant VAT rates are concerned, they are lower. I remind you, as finance minister, I have suggested, and I think your party and many parties in the then assembly have supported the abolition of the sales tax in the domain of information. There were at least three attempts to take that rate when the VAT was introduced to a higher rate and each time we managed to resist together because there is a political important message behind it, which is that the economy is the knowledge that is best displayed. Its discovery is that all our children have a computer, that in houses it is present as television, that software is less illegally copied, and in this domain, the fact that VAT is lower helps. That's what all those who make it told us. It just seems to me, and now I'm going to go into the details of these laws, that by discussing these things today, we're in some Titanic's cabin. Again and again, the general debate on the laws we've been having lately is like that. We're talking about postponing the Public Property Act, and then we're talking about putting down some points, but we're not talking about public enterprises making big losses. We are not talking about half of our young people not having a job today and today in these domains and in this highest home of Serbian democracy, we are not discussing the essence of the matter. Therefore, Mr. Vice President, we expect you to come to this house soon and discuss the essence of the matter, to talk about why and to wonder why traffic in our shops has fallen by 6%. By increasing the lower VAT rate you announced will fall further. It's not my place to talk about your strategy, but as a Social Democratic Party, I don't know how you can vote to raise a lower VAT rate that directly affects the poorest citizens, because there are both bread and milk and oil and communals. The finance minister wasn't determined until the end whether or not the textbooks, including those who deal with electronic commerce... And your MP recently published his doctorate in that domain, whether his book will be taxed by 8 or 20%. It's an appeal. It's a hard time. On the one hand, the government's public session on the catastrophic situation and bankruptcy that this government has led us to. On the other hand, the government comes to the Assembly and we talk about peripheral matters. It's not that they don't matter, but at this point when the government itself says we're one step ahead of bankruptcy, we need different measures and different laws, Mr. Vice President. As far as these laws are concerned, the Transport Intermediation Act and the Immobilization of immovableity, you said the previous government prepared it. Thus, we do not have any major dispute over the provisions contained in it and the truth is that much of this esnaf supports the adoption of such a specific law. We have to be careful not to enforce our own law for each profession because then it destroys the unity of our system, and one of our colleagues is right, it seems to me from JS, who said it might be possible to regulate it through the parent law on bonding relations. On the other hand, this is a specific activity, and many MPs said this morning, and I confirm what they said. There have been numerous problems and abuses and it is instructed that there is one public registry on the Internet that can all consult and see if the person representing himself as an agent for buying or renting certain immovableities is listed or not. There's a certain test behind that. We won't agree, maybe it'll surprise you, that it's essential that all those working in those agencies have passed a legal exam. I think there are activities where you don't need to have that qualification. I refer you to Slovenia where such a similar provision is voted and where today they have huge problems. In some ways, people with legal diplomas rent, rent, issue, if you will, rent their biography, and actually don't work because such qualifications aren't the most important, because it's primarily one commercial activity, the ingenuity that needs to be possessed. We must tell our citizens, who no longer have education, that they can and can deal with interesting professions. Otherwise, we'll have inflation of fake college diplomas. It's gonna happen and nothing else. These people are gonna buy diplomas. If some in high positions in the country were able to buy diplomas, they will certainly succeed. That's why we say, as far as this domain is concerned, the fundamental question is the fact that according to some estimates, there is no official statistics, unfortunately, the real estate market has fallen by about 60%. We've had a few interesting measures in the past decade. I'll mention, without any false modesty, the authorship of lifting taxes on the purchase of the first apartment. It had a certain effect. Young couples were able to sell smaller apartments of their parents or what they bought before they entered the marriage community to form a larger housing unit and be ready to have children, two, three, and somehow Serbia stops disappearing. The problem is that by budgeting this year, especially by rebalancing, the government has completely abolished funds for housing, from the promising first steps of social housing. When I talk about this second law on arms sales, the Ministry of Defence and other ministries have found a way to form a major project on Vozdovac. We can talk about it, but it was an opportunity to show up at affordable prices a number of housing units that our citizens, who are not wealthy, can buy. This government, if I'm wrong, tell me, has no single project in the domain of housing. Not only that, but yesterday in your position was the Minister of Science, provided money, 150 families of scientists waiting 10 years on a roof over their heads, 85% finished the building, never finished. The impact of this government in the domain of housing is zero, even where there is money, and I think that's the first thing you have to do, because it's learning not only at the economic college, which is that the building, or the housing, runs at least 16 other sectors. If somewhere we need to find a foothold to get Serbia out of this crisis, surely the building is one of them. Not to mention that more than 110 thousand of our people, as many as are left in that operation, are on the verge of functioning. Enough of this demagogy to say that not enough permits have been issued in Belgrade. Do you know, Mr. Vice President, that at this point, valid permits have been issued to build an additional two million square meters. Since there's no perspective, there's no customers, so there's no investors. It's all set, people won't, people won't, people won't, and since they don't build, there's no work to be done, and there's no work for the intermediaries we're discussing today. So much for this law. As far as the Export and Import Act is concerned, here's another example. This is an additional harmonisation, and let's remember that our country has had some problems in recent years because part of the weaponry, produced in our factories, has been found partly in some countries that have been sanctioned and not to be exported, and I'm not talking about it, in part true, and in part through the manipulation that later proved to be on our side, that it appeared in the suburbs of some Western countries. I think it's a good thing there's an additional arrangement of this highly sensitive matter. On the other hand, it is not good, even if it was a weapon, to add opinions to opinions. I know there have been major problems in the previous government in obtaining BIA opinions, which have been long awaited and sometimes never won. It would be good, with what's called the deadline you're introducing here, from the moment you get all valid opinions to the possibility of exporting, importing, to ensure in this law the maximum time limit, and not just the general one that exists, so that all relevant institutions give their opinion. Should I ask the BIA? You should. Do you often wonder about these things as other ministries? It's not a question. It's very important that we don't build a bottleneck here for important activity. I'd like to give some figures on the impact of the previous government. The previous government found our dedicated extremity industry. Her annual exports were $70 million. In all the years, from 2009 to 2011, exports were $250m. Not all arrangements have been implemented, we know some in Libya, due to very familiar circumstances. If today this government is able to go to Angola and talk about building a major medical hospital or forming new arrangements, it is enormously due to the work of the previous government and former defence minister. Some of these people have confessed. The problem is, it's nothing forever. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Vice President, it's nice that we're setting this up, but what you're going to do is "Krusik" in Valjevo, who fired hundreds of workers, doesn't shut down. The situation in Uzic, in Kragujevac with the weapons is just as much more difficult than it was two or three years ago. What's the perspective here? That we do not only have a regulation that regulates the additional collapse in one branch, where Serbia has gained strength, through some diplomatic activities that existed during socialism, to establish new ties that have become commercial. Now a few words about e-commerce. I said the key problem is that you're going to increase the VAT on what I'm talking about. The other problem is, it's a good thing we see here, that those who sell electronics on our territory must respect our laws. We're not the only country with certain problems in that domain. Look at the huge dispute that has a highly developed West with companies like Google or Amazon. They make huge traffic and profits on their territory and don't pay any taxes. This has led to a group of G20 most developed countries. We need to follow that trend and ensure what we want, which is that electronic trade is developing and that it remains firmly tied to our regulations and to our regulation. That's good in this law. The increase in VAT, the fact, according to our findings, is that today you haven't solved the question “paypal”. It's not possible to pay today. It's nice to be able to buy and pay theoretically. If we don't have the payment opportunities and the ability to do it, like in the rest of the world, if we're not recognized by big world traders in that domain, then it's a weak show and it won't open specific online stores for us and it'll all be an empty thing again. Not to mention that according to the information that I have received, which cannot be statistically very reliable, but people who are engaged in buying certain goods on the foreign market through electronic business, today our customs have very weakly founded practice in this domain, the hour pays for very high customs, the hour does not charge for anything. I see your experts nod their heads. That's a serious problem. Buy the goods and it can be 10, 20, 40% more expensive or nothing more expensive than what you paid with your card, if you're lucky to have an international card that can qualify for purchase, because many of ours don't qualify. Mr. Vice President, you can do better. We're talking about the essence of things. The most important law here is the Competition Protection Act. What I'm saying is that DS disagrees with these changes for three reasons. The first and key reason is Article 15. Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Government, you said, I am grateful that you officially confirmed that out of the 16 important decisions, the punishments, this commission, as many as 12 have fallen to the courts. I ask, honourable fellow MPs, if you have a body that decides on behalf of all of us and for various reasons, it has shown that its decisions are not something that confirms our judicial system, do you really think this is a moment to give them an additional dose of discretion? Absolutely not, you don't need to give them extra freedom at this point. We know well that it exists, that in some America, in some Hungary, not a small number of things are solved. But I will tell our citizens what it says in Serbian in Article 15. It writes – that firm you have a reasonable suspicion of being a monopoliest or that it has misused its position on the market, if it suggests itself some conditions to pay you a sum, to remove some shops, to close this, the commission can accept it. Not only that, but the procedure is not arranged at all. This is much worse organized than public procurement, and we know that there are important things. It says those who are interested can make remarks. What about it? Nothing. The Commission is totally sovereign. There's no other degree, there's nothing here that could, except for some very long court dispute, lead to an overrun like this, given enormous power to any limited commission that hasn't yet shown that it's particularly hitting the target. One more thing, the other, so how come all of a sudden this and just this, processically, since you said in your presentation, it's worth it right now and the items that started earlier? We're waiting materially for our legal tradition and don't be surprised if we're expressing suspicion that there might be an object that's very important. Some wrote about the merger between "Merkator" and "Idee". That's right, there's another big salesman forming in our house. Soon, if this merger is approved, we'll have two 30 players and a change of interest in our market. And now you're giving the commission a chance when this comes into effect, to decide for themselves if those who join together make a good enough offer. I don't think that's the time. I think this might be good in five to ten years, but every good law is a law that allows real progress, fast, but not by giving enormous power to those who make a lot of mistakes. The last thing, the DS has proposed in this house a law requiring additional regulation of banking services, because we have established, and the media has also confirmed by many independent analysts, that in recent years, especially in the area of compensation, our banks charge a lot more than those in the region... (President: Time.) ) This is why we are asking the Competition Protection Commission to gain competence and over the financial sector, because this too close link between NBS, banks and banks in all things, from regulatory to competitiveness and competition is not good at the level of Europe. In Europe, it is not the European Central Bank that decides whether there are violations of competition between banks in the EU. It is the European Commission and it is the same commissioner who deals with the problems of anti-monopolis policy and for the real sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24313	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24314	Just a few clarifications in relation to both this exposure and the previous one. There were remarks that the penalties in the Law on Transport of immovableity are small given the size of the damage that can be done. Those penalties are in accordance with the Law on Violations. There were objections that they were too big. We heard the one you brought out, but they're completely in line with the law I was talking about. As for who is investigating and everything about the expert exams will be regulated by a special regulation, as the law says. Seven regulations should be passed within six months, among other things, and everything you've talked about. We felt that this should not be the subject of this law, but a special rule that is much easier to change. As for the amount associated with the insurance policy, it is at an annual level of about 70,000 dinars. There's been a debate about this. Large agencies have proposed that it be at least 1,500 euros. They're responsible for being stronger and more competitive than these weaker ones. This is some kind of solution that I'd say is a compromise. In Croatia, it is about 500 euros, but given their stronger competition, I am counting on this price to fall, which will be the real estate market for us to recover and increase the number of agencies. Could this area be regulated by the Law on Bond Relations? Was it even necessary for a law like this? On some more normal occasions, I guess. However, we have reacted to the fact that the situation we have is booming in the gray and black market. This is one answer to this very catastrophic situation that was created on the real estate market. We felt that in a comprehensive, united way this area should be regulated. As far as BIA's opinion on consent in the Double Purpose Act is concerned, so far has been a month. We wanted to keep that formula for a month of the total period when the permit was to be issued. We will also seek to be all within a month, but we have only limited ourselves to those 10 days from the moment of obtaining the last consent of the Ministry of Trade, for the only reason, because it was a recommendation from the European Commission experts who participated with us in the drafting of this law and that it was not good because of the complicated procedure, complex procedures, often complex cases, that this deadline should not be limited. As far as PayPal is concerned, we are in the talks on leadership and the "recieve" options, in addition to the "send" option already introduced into Serbia. PayPal requests additional guarantees and explanations from the NBS. The National Bank considers that there are no legal obstacles anymore, and that legislative regulation is also sufficient for the management of "words" options. We passed that explanation on to PayPal. We expect their response, but they have expressed their willingness to introduce the "recieve" option very quickly. It's usually a practice with PayPal, in every country they've come to, to start with the "send" option, and then with this one. As for the additional amount of discretion we give to the commission, I've told what's true. Whoever it is, I'm not going to be in charge of the commission at all, but the fact is that a large number of cases of the commission have been brought to trial, in part probably because of some of the wrong decisions of the commission, but it's not up to us to judge it now. The court has spoken. It's partly due to some of the misunderstandings we've had in our current law. But this has nothing to do with giving them extra discretionary rights. In the case mentioned above, this is not a concentration study, in the case of Agrokora and Mercator. The procedure can only be interrupted in procedures when it is established that one of the participants has corrected the infringements of competition. As far as concentration is concerned, it absolutely can't come to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24315	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24316	Thank you. We still haven't heard the point. Thank you for PayPal, but it's like everything with this government -- here we are, just not, here's a being, now they say it's okay, so it's going to be "words". This is the 14 months you've been saying that PayPal is moving. When? On the other hand, you didn't say anything about other elements. Whether you will be fought as resolute vice president, because it has not yet been decided that VAT, as we wish, will have DS support, will not be raised from 8% to 20% for the first time since 5 October for software, for hardware i.e. for the laptop, for the deck top and for all peripheral devices that go with it. I believe that if you care, and you have in your portfolio an information society, you will agree that at this point in time of poverty when additionally subtracted from the purchasing power of middle class and many other people, and the poorest, increases in the rate of the lower that it is very important to leave that space so that people can team up, because our country continues to helmet, if we compare it with some of our neighbours, in this very key domain. What I didn't understand best by reading Article 15, as far as we understand you're giving the commission a new opportunity. You're giving the commission the opportunity to accept some party's unilateral proposal. It wasn't a practice until now. We know it exists in many of Saxon countries. You make the arrangements. We'll figure out what kind of punishment you'll pay. But I repeat logically for an organization that has shown that it is constantly missing the target. Do we have any reality and any certainty that this institute will give any better results? We don't believe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24317	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24318	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is today a very important set of laws, practically in a procedure that took a lot of political will to come to order at all. Obviously, we have today on the agenda laws that have been prepared both in 2005 and in 2009 and 2010, and have never virtually come to the congregation procedure for consideration as a topic of agenda. This shows that this government, in addition to its reform measures relating to cost cuts, i.e. budget drains, has decided in one far responsible way to put one set of laws in the assembly procedure, which should also enable financial resources to flow into the budget. Of course, it took political will, but also courage, because there were obviously a lot of problems in the sector that covered these four laws. In addition to this, what you need to say right away, it is that you should give support to each of these legal proposals. Whether those in the global world are now the best to work out will ultimately show themselves amendments, will show and practice, because in many parts we have amendments and additions to the law. It's no big deal. In the end, it should exist, especially when business activities are at stake. The first law that practically leads to resolving the issue, at least partially grey economy issues, is a law relating to traffic intervention and the lease of immovableity. The problem of the construction industry today in Serbia consists and can be seen with more aspects. The fact that there is no developed construction today, and there is no sector at all in that part like three, four, five years ago, is primarily the reason that we as a country are in the form of consolidation of finance in a very difficult position, which is the result of a past where we didn't know that we were adequately guarding this sector. First of all, because some power centers had a monopoly, especially in decisions relating to the area of building permits. We had five amendments to the Construction Act in 2004 to 2008. Therefore, each of these changes and additions occurred that the period of issue of construction permits was extended, investors existed uninterested, and on the other hand the monopoly on the market of some workers, such as "Bellville", had to be protected, and therefore city secretaries did not issue construction permits for two years at all. Of course, there is a slowdown in real estate market traffic, and it's natural that there are problems at all that affect every citizen of this country, when it comes to investment. We come to the fact that for the first time now you have the introduction of this law in which every citizen should be somehow protected, primarily from fraud, one, and two, from that part of investment that will somehow try to reduce that price of squares that every buyer or tenant pays. Now we have one dead-end real estate market, and that's the result of one policy that ruled, and as you can see, such a policy is tangling two and three laws, especially this one on real estate, so it's including this law on the protection of competition, so it's tangling even the part that applies to electronic business. From that we can see, that means even problems aren't that simple. What is good, and that is that very many agents have participated in the market for real estate and real estate. A lot of people in this transformation have found their place of work, someone and an additional profession. They say, there are also a lot of pensioners who have done this job, and therefore many people who have exclusively dealt with this area have been in some way deprived of their traffic, or all that they respected the state. Thus, simply tax in a way, for all activities of the economy, the state was denied for it. This is now the moment to sort out this market, try to put it into some legal flows, that people who work are legalized, approximately statistics say that two-thirds of the agents didn't have any record of doing the job, nor did the state have that record. In a way, now we get that those who are really going to do this job are these people, but they're going to sort of respond to their clients and the state and they're not going to be able to trick anyone. That is why we want to send as a country a good message to investors that this sector is being regulated. This is what the Transport Intermediation Act and the Immobilisation Act are all about. The part relating to the import and export law of dual-use goods shows that the need to comply with our regulations with European standards and harmonisation of regulations shows the ministry's readiness to speed up some period of obtaining certain consent, paper and in some way to make the state apparatus more efficient. That's very good. Therefore, it should be said that this reduction of deadlines that will give all those interested permits within 10 days should be stressed as one of the signs that the state is beginning to function in a much more efficient way than before. It should be advocated that how we have import, so there are both export licences and consent and that the state thus fully controls the flow of goods and services. That control is very important because of what we talked about, where we said in the previous law that it wasn't under control, so there are certainly many areas covered by your ministry that need to be controlled, precisely for budgeting. The e-commerce law has shown that it is necessary to regulate certain legal aspects, especially in terms of the negotiation and the part relating to the development of the information market. He shows that Serbian citizens are very untrustworthy of this sector. With the adoption of this law, the state should slowly pour that trust into all its users, thereby raising that quality of services and showing that we can deal with the world in this area. This will, of course, also cause many educations, the need for people to be educated and educated in this area, to inhale in a way as large a range of economic operators as possible to fill this sector and not to get around 180m euros in annual traffic that was in 2012, rather than being significantly higher. The most interesting part that we have today, the Law on the Protection of Competition, is a law that has, in some ways, shown that it seems to abuse the work of an independent state body, which, in the end, also votes. We had reports from the late Verice Barac, who sent Prime Minister Cvetkovic on 15 December 2010, in which she was decidently saying that practically this sector, or the commission itself in this part, had functioned in an entirely inadequate way, that privatisation at the time was a practical centre of events and in some way of taking over the market and taking over certain power centers in all economic activities. We had the privatisation of "C Market", so we had the privatisation of "Luke Belgrade", and on that basis we saw that certain centres of power were directly negotiating with the state, not asking for the opinion of the Competition Protection Commission, which was not even responding at the time, and therefore we saw that what it was founded for was simply not doing its job. It happened in 2010. Later, in 2011 and 2012, we came to the conclusion that from 16 of their decisions, 12 practically fell, and in some ways all those legal entities who served, may have been wrong and may have caused their decisions certain financial costs from the budget, so that the budget was damaged by 750,000 euros due to its bad decisions, on the basis of certain judgments, i.e. decisions. Who's responsible for that? In the end, it turns out no one. This legal solution was given to know exactly what the commission would look like. We had the absurdity that there are no economists in the commission, and it should prescribe decisions made by market economy instruments. We had the absurdity that such a function would transfer the right of signature to members of the council, that they would make certain decisions and are practically legally challenged – what these decisions are and that they were absolutely void before the court. So we can come to a structure, that maybe that commission or certain members will, in a way, issue their own solutions, for damage to the state and then work at certain centres of power. That is why it is very important that this ethical code of conduct exists, because it should be a strict control of the work of members of the council. Anyone signing these documents must bear great responsibility, not only materially, but also criminally and materially, for the simple reason that we are issuing certain papers causing certain material costs that ultimately go beyond the back of all Serbian citizens. It is therefore necessary to support the first professionalisation of such a commission, secondly, instruments, or regulations to which they will behave and ultimately, and this budget given to them is somehow controlled through reports submitted to the ministry. What is interesting, and what should really be, I support my colleagues who have made the proposal, that these reports should also come to the Serbian Parliament, in the end, for the simple reason that we, if you are looking at in some legal sense, am not a lawyer, but the Assembly is some second-degree body, or to whom these reports should be submitted. What to say in the end, as far as these legislative proposals are concerned, is that there will certainly be a lot of amendments on the board, in terms of our colleagues who have made certain proposals. There are also too many proposals, for the simple reason why they say that some details have to be defined correctly, because if they remain undefined, then they give opportunity, a big space for certain abuses. Therefore, it is very important that the details relating to the Commission's own decisions to protect competition should be precisely defined and should be precisely limited, in that sense – what if certain problems arise in the Commission's work, i.e. in defining and analysis, since the Commission is now doing an analysis of it – who has a monopoly, and who does not, means that part, the way it will work, to prescribe it correctly. Finally, I can only say that these laws should be supported because they are on that reform path of our economy, that they will surely experience a few more changes and additions in the next year, two days, because practice will show what was good in them, and what are the shortcomings in which we will have to react. I hope that in this part of the law that we had on the agenda today, we will get the results through the budget, i.e. the final part of the 2013 budget, and for the following year, because these effects of these laws and the implementation of these laws are best broken through the budget. What is still to be said is that the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, which practically has control over the work of the Competition Protection Commission, will certainly help that, if you think there are still certain instruments to be introduced, in terms of controlling the work of such a body, we will support you. We thank you very much for having time today to respond to these details that, I see, all the MPs are extremely responsible for reviewing all these laws, because there are a lot of these details that try to tell us that everything that was in the past is essentially showing us what it looks like when you don't have something defined, when you simply come into a situation that you can't implement and then suffer the most budget, of course the citizens of Serbia and at all the economy of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24319	Thank you, too. Since all the authorized representatives have taken advantage of the time, we're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list is Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2001, the European Commission recommended that Serbia pass the Competition Protection Act, as one of the most important laws on market business and as a law that should have taken a step in step with the Privatisation Act. In the days when it is marked, in some way, or we remember on October 5, 2000, 13 years after that, we can, for who knows which time, realize that we still haven't built a competition and even conditions for the competition of all market participants, which, as a right-wing party, we stand for equal chances for everyone, that we still have big monopolies, that the Competition Protection Act only came in 2009, to make his changes and additions now, and we will support this anyway. However, we still do not have a fully equal status of participants in the competition, we still have monopolies, especially in electricity production, some modes of traffic, especially the monopolies are seen in the functioning of public enterprises, and these are mainly state-controlled public enterprises. Once again, we come to a conclusion that the state is the worst employer, because regardless of the monopoly position, many public enterprises are doing business with great loss. The Anti-Monopolitan Commission, it seems to us, for a number of objective reasons so far, has not given us the results we could objectively expect, and it seems to us, given the ambience and the state of society, that it is still unimaginable for us to, like in America, the Anti-Monopoly Commission, if I am not mistaken, has punished the great Microsoft with almost a billion euros due to the monopoly position on the market and the abuse of that position. I believe that if we had a tycoon of ours, at least until recently, in such a way as to warn, that at least we would have hired a sniper, or if Brankica Stankovic in Insider was doing research on the monopoly position, that her head would be in the bag again. It's just that the state, as well as the real estate, has not played its part. What we stand for and what we expect from this government is that the government will start to build the institutions seriously, that everything the previous governments have not done will do. Because, no matter what, after 5 October, there are many shifts, above all in foreign policy, in relations in the region, etc., on those big things, such as privatisation, monopoly position, criminalisation, weakness of institutions, this is the least done. That's why, as a result of the bad laws, bribery, corruption, poor police work, justice, poor regulation, we've had a number of frauds in the traffic of immovable property. Somewhere around 25,000 citizens have been deceived. One broker from Novi Sad has sold one apartment 40 times. The value of fraud is over 100m euros. Who's responsible for that? It is a responsible state, because it did not regulate it by law, because it did not impose on investors the obligation to have licences to be investors and did not impose on them the obligation to have bank guarantees. In that case, if he cheats on potential customers during construction, customers would be compensated by banks, and the bank would think hard about which investor he would give a bank guarantee. Who pays the ultimate price for irresponsible state conduct? A citizen. But this same citizen, for some small matter, will quickly get to prison and the front page of the newspaper, and all those responsible, above all, I think of people who have abused the traffic of immobility and are most often labeled as intermediaries. The mediators were involved, but the prosecutor's office was involved, which was not responding in time, and the police who did not respond in time, and the state that did not regulate this in time, but among other things, the mediators. That is why it is good that such a law is passed and that we, in the text of the law itself, have no specific objections on its part. It is good that for the last two or three years, this number of immovable frauds has fallen significantly, especially due to networking and because one contract regarding the same immovableity to verify multiple times. But in order for us to fully introduce one legal certainty for citizens who most often, on average or on average twice in life buys a huge immobility, often working for one, two or three generations, and then a state appears to watch with its passive relationship that an organized criminal horde cheats on that ordinary citizen, however, it is our conclusion that, as we stand for a strong state, for strong institutions, for a serious and responsible state, responsibility on this rather than on cheated citizens, but above all in the state. The responsibility is also not for investors who, of course, use a monopoly position, bribery, corruption, way of obtaining locations, permits and how the state allows them to make the most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24321	Thank you. I don't know on what basis, Dragan Nikolic answered. It's not? I don't see it in the O.R. So someone switched someone's card. The word has Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24322	I'll use the first ten seconds to remove that card, because if someone is registered and not in the O.R., that means that his card is in the system, and he's not physically present, so please, I'm not pointing specifically at Article 128 to solve it. Mr Ljajic, a colleague Popovic has already talked a lot about these laws, and in a few minutes I will concentrate, of course, on the issue of amending the Competition Protection Act, especially motivated by what counterpart Tomic was talking about. There is a lot in our discussions and in the light of the laws of appeal to European standards and European practice. What counterpart Tomic said in part in her presentation would be absolutely unimaginable or impossible in any European country that has a similar system of competition protection through some kind of independent regulator. Such very frequent insinuations as the commission did, whether it violated the law, whether someone in the commission made a certain decision to cause material damage to the state, are very worrying. I understand that this is in the heat of political struggle, but I think that the most important issue on the path of European integration and standardisation, or the harmonisation of our standards, is to advance if we realise that this issue is not a matter of day-to-day political struggle, but is the most important issue, on the one hand, the development of the economy, and on the other hand the protection of the position of citizens of one country. We are all, no matter how much purchasing power falls, especially after these latest measures of government, consumers above all, and this should be a key criterion when we think about such laws. You have partially amended this proposal by law that Article 15. The law on the protection of competition and set up something different, something more flexible, so to speak, to assess the most common situation in the dominant position. The classical monopoly is much rarer, incomparably rarer situation, even with us, and in other countries much more. But these amendments to the law and in general our Competition Protection Act don't regulate one very important issue or regulate it in an adequate way. This is a question of competition protection and state aid. It's a key issue in reforming our country and our economy. I always believe that some concrete examples are the most effective. So, what is the position of Simpo, Mr. Ljajic, at this point in the domestic market? It's clear and without questioning, I don't think she has anywhere near 40% of the market share. The question is whether it meets some of these other conditions that you state here as a reason for determining or as auxiliary reasons, the auxiliary criteria for determining a dominant position. Is the rule of competition in the domestic market violated by the state's decision to first forgive part of the debt to the company, and then to give part of the taxpayers' money so that the company can rescind the violation of the laws it has made in the past? In our public, the most common thing about this case was whether money was given. There was no talk from the point of view of competition. You are from Sandzak, I know that in that part of Serbia there are several serious private companies dealing with it, so my question is: is the competition rule violated when these people's money was taken as taxpayers or part of the money they took by charging the price for the goods they sell, and then from the state budget given to their direct competition? It's pointless to talk about these other situations, whether someone has 42, 23 and perhaps the most attractive situations of trade, trade in a little bit. It's peripheral stuff, they'll be solved mostly by market development, but these things directly affect. This example, Simpa and some other examples directly affect investor rejection. You keep talking about it, but I'm not sure that Ikea or anyone else responded positively to the fact that their competitors or potential competitors have such generous state aid, which is not even an aid to some kind of investment or development, but to protect illegal behaviour on the market. It happened under this government, colleague Tomic. It didn't happen under one of the previous ones, and it wasn't decided by the commission. Another question that may be important and perhaps we can, Mr. Ljajic, talk about it. There is a significant part of the economy or economy at this point where you couldn't even determine, or where the commission couldn't determine the existence of some of these other elements. One of the elements is economic and financial power. It also implies an assessment of the value of the property, i.e. the assets of a market participant, and then its market power is assessed on that basis, as you say in the law. The MPs of the majority passed a law here a few days ago allowing state firms to avoid the obligation for another year to enter their own property, or their own property over the funds they use. How will the commission assess their strength? Based on the right to use that only exists here in some form? There is no European court ruling that tells you about how this issue is treated since the first countries came out of this socialist past, transformed their legal order, transformed among other things the concept of property rights and ownership rights, and only then began to develop these practices that are spoken of here. This morning, in the part of the session, which was dedicated to issues, I raised a question that is also important to us where the question of free competition is deformed, etc. It is a matter of public procurement in different segments of the state. says counterpart Tomic -- he will feel in the budget for this year the positive financial effects of this law. They won't feel like they didn't feel any laws, or the effects of so much praised Public Procurement Act. So, not that there are several hundred new million euros, but we are going to do another budget rebalance because budget revenues are too low and savings are not achieved. For example, I've pointed out purchases and, say, pension disability insurance. When a public tender is opened and it is said that this part of the state buys, orders a job, or purchases a folder, folder, register, etc. and prescribes that they must be in six colors, thereby limiting competition or not limiting. What's the business reason the PIO Fund has files in orange? I know you'll say there are other regulations, there's a rule of archiving that obliges you to specify the color that must be the office material, but that's our country's problem. We can adopt the most modern, harmonised Competition Act and continue to have dozens of other regulations deforming its application and returning us to some period of 30 or 40 years and ultimately no one will care. And through that part, it actually collapses the market, it puts the state in a position to have, which is the most dominant in the market with us, unfortunately, that's the biggest problem, Mr. Lying. We have debated here for years with the Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, especially. He's always talking, and here the MPs of today's government are always talking about how some wild privatisation destroyed us, and then the next phase of neoliberal capitalism destroyed us. Then Minister Krstic came and said two days ago that the state here affects 50%, businesses or 50% of the market. Well, there's no liberalism or capitalism, it's almost a planned economy. You won't be able to protect the market or competitors by law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24323	Replica, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24324	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, since I was directly called for the question of the Commission's general protection of competition. Based on this presentation and my predecessor, I can only conclude that it is justified, that there must be half an economist, half a lawyer on the commission, because obviously we will never agree in that part of what is economic, and what is a legally practical part of the work, especially the works related to the protection of competition. The retroactiveness of this law, for example, in Imleka, has brought out 750,000 euros simply from the Republic of Serbia's budget. If the agreement under which the Simpo and the state signed on the debt reprogramme falls within a certain part of the competition, then the commission should have come out with a certain opinion of the decision and simply said so. So, I was talking about the past how the commission worked, how the market acted, and it was known that there were one or two power centres in terms of the market in general for goods and services to Serbia. Until the moment Mr. Miskovic went to prison. That was clear. From that moment on, it is simple to adopt new system reform, new laws, consolidation of public finances, and to establish mechanisms as it should appear, as EU standards have been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24325	Mr. Djuric, you have no right to a replica. You have challenged her, and you know well that you cannot address the MPs directly under the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24326	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-President, Deputy Prime Minister, members of the resolution ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is now naturally in a process of dynamic, primarily economic reforms. I must primarily indicate public sector reform, fiscal reform, reform of the monetary system, and what is the country's goal is faster and more dynamic integration into European integration. One of the main conditions of how European integration of our country but also what is most important is the creation of a competitive, market economy. I believe that some colleagues who have discussed before me are the right that we do not have a market economy in the right sense of that word, in that full capacity, but I believe that they amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Competition and that it will affect that job and that goal. One of the main objectives of the SDPS interest is primarily the overcoming and turning Serbia from the one official society that we now have. We heard the other day that in the public sector in our country, about 660,000 people were employed in an entrepreneurial society, in a society where everyone would be able to deal with private businesses, all able to enter the market and leave it at their own discretion and will, as it is in all developed democratic countries of this world, whose examples are well pursued. I can say that competition policy has, and today, a central role in the development of the EU has been built since 1957 from the Treaty of Rome. Not to mention the United States of America, where the same policy, the law, the Competition Protection Commission has existed since 1890, on Sherman's Law, Clayton's 1914 Law, where the fight against monopoly, the fight against cartels, and any fight against any kind of player being able to participate equally in the market. This is completely in agreement, the interest of the party's objectives and the parliamentary group I belong to, that one is an equal, market match, a company, a company, whether they are from the public or private sector and the introduction to what is the greatest value of democracy today, and that is a free competition of human abilities, human ideas. In this way, through the realization of this idea we will be able to achieve and make one quality and flexible and labour market and capital market and, of course, what we are talking about today, the market for goods and services. Here, some state-of-the-art or some sort of analysis when it comes to the state of competition and competition policy in our country. I will state the weakness, this is the private sector's participation in the gross domestic product, insufficient price liberalisation, high degree of state interference in the economy. What is good and what has been done during this government that was formed last July is that it is a high degree of trade liberalisation, a high degree of trade integration with EU countries, which this government and this ministry have come to bear in mind that 60% of trade relations and trade exchanges are taking place with the EU. So, one very important trade and business integration with the EU member states our country is seeking. What is very important is weakness and what we need to fix in the next period, it is that the private sector participates in the gross domestic product with only 60%. In Albania, it is 80%, and 82% of Albania's employment is defined naturally by the private sector. I think that globally we can all see where the problem is, and that's market development, competition development, and that's the development of the private sector. The creation and what SDPS has been up to since its establishment, the creation of a start-up nation in which young people we talked about in the past few days when it came to the Higher Education Act, will not as an imperative of its thinking have employment in state institutions, ministries, local self-government but the launch of its own business and an open game on the labour market and competitiveness it will show in relation to its colleagues. Since there have been some criticisms about it, when it comes to what defines the law on the protection of competition, which is, of course, a policy of protection against concentration, a policy of protection against market domination, here are data from the UN Conference on Trade and Development, and that is why this is precisely the effort of this ministry and these amendments and the additions of the law to fix this picture, in 2010 65 recorded concentrations, in 2011, 94, 2012 105. We have the most drastic example in those years of growing concentrations on our market. When it comes to abuse of Serbia's dominant position, we have slight growth. From three in 2010, to five in 2012. Nothing so significant, but there's an alarming rise in one violation of the competition law that, of course, these amendments to the law only the ministry that I see has the support of one great majority in the National Assembly, we want to get in the way. Many speakers before me talked about what and in which segments this law defines changes. It's a legal term of obsolescence. The implementation of the procedure shall be extended from three to five years. The Commission no longer has the cost of interest due to the reduction or elimination of the competition protection measure in the court proceedings. It is no longer the only criterion for assessing the dominant position on the market 40% of the market's employment, but it includes other parameters and other criteria. The burden of proving the status of the dominant position falls on the commission. For the penalty of income, the company's 10% refers to income on the domestic market, not on the global market, which is, of course, also one of our country's major interests, which means that in this way we will encourage foreign direct investors to invest even more here and make one more quality environment and climate for their investment, and this definitely represented one of the biggest obstacles. As for institutional capacity, I don't think there's any dilemma here. Of course, an economic analysis is needed, an economic analysis within the framework of the Commission's work on competition protection and that it was neither logical nor good situation for the Council of the Commission to operate four lawyers, that it does not exist and that no economists work. There have been proposals here that we can support and we can appeal to the minister and the ministry itself to consider, in the next phase, the establishment of the Commission's Chief Economist for Competition Protection, which I think would improve and improve the capacity of this commission in this aspect of economics and economic analysis which, in our opinion, is the most important aspect of this fight and protect competition. The ethical code, in terms of corporate, good corporate governance, good practice, is not controversial. It is good to introduce it and simply it represents an introduction to a better solution and better promotion of so-called. a competent lawyer, or a good vote on the fact that such a single commission and the state itself are ready to protect the market, to develop it, to bring it in and to create an ambience for as many competitors to be on such a market. What is also noted, and what can be the proposal of the ministry itself, the SDPS ministry, is the work to increase the capacity of the judges themselves in the Administrative Court and the Supreme Cassation Court in terms of economic knowledge, because there is one example that has defined many analyses that over a year some cases stand in those courts, precisely because there is not enough capacity and there is not enough economic knowledge to solve these cases. So I don't think there's any dispute that all those ideas, changes and additions to the law, anything that goes into favour, attracting domestic and foreign investment, will open up the market, which will develop entrepreneurship in our country, which will affect us making an entrepreneurial society, the SDPS in voting day, but of course, in the coming period every such constructive, and of course we will support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24327	Bojan Djuric, on what basis? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24328	Mr. Arsenovicu, I believe you've violated the article. 27 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I do not understand what your explanation means, or refusal to give me the word that I caused Mrs Tomic's reaction, and that's why this part of which you are now chairing is called the principle debate, and the MPs here are arguing, giving their opinions. I have to tell you that you interrupted a debate that I think was good. I won't answer again, because I don't have the strength to argue with you on these issues. You have a dominant position, to express yourself in the language of the Competition Act, and I don't know if this is the basis, access to distribution networks, because you control the microphone, but I'm afraid it's a matter of vertical integration. Next time tell me, I won't mention the PIO Fund, I won't mention anything else, just let us talk normally. Mrs. Tomic and I talked normally, and you interrupted the discussion for no reason. So I won't answer again, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24329	Mr. Gjuric, you know well that you do not have the right to address MPs directly under the Rules of Procedure. Please listen to me, you've called Alexandra Tomic several times, about her exposure, several times, and if you don't know it, and if you're not aware of it, I'm sorry. On this basis, I gave the right to the replica to Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic, who in a dignified way and explained her position on a certain matter, without mentioning you at all, nor your party, was anything offensive, and I believe that by that basis you had no right to any replica, and that is solely the right of Article 104 of my right. Therefore, you have the right if you want to ask to make a statement to the congregation. (National MP Bojan Đuric, from the post: I don't care. Judita Popovic, on what basis? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24330	Mr. Chairman, as I say, don't tell you the truth. You are not telling the truth, and you are chairing it in a rather unobstructive way. So Mr. Djuric mentioned Article 27 and 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24331	Mrs. Popovic, I give you a warning, not because you insulted me, but because you're not telling the truth. Therefore, I give you a warning because you use inappropriate expressions. Do you want to continue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24332	Article 27 and Article 107. Mr. Chairman, I am sorry that you are so sensitive to any kind of criticism, but Mr. Djuric did not address Mrs. Tomic directly. Mr. Djuric only mentioned her discussion. Is it forbidden to mention the name, or last name of the debater, in principle? I don't think so. That's why, Mr. Chairman, you violated the article. 27th and 107th. You have directly injured the dignity of this assembly and each of the MPs present, because you have spoken something that is not true, Mr. Chairman. You should have listened more carefully to Mr. Djuric's principled debate and not to be subjective when assessing how he discussed it. Subjectivity, most likely, stems from the fact that he criticised the PIO Fund to a large extent. We know that you are directly, as far as this fund is concerned, interested in the same, since you're retired. So, we can find out here, too, is that right, Mr. Chairman, the reasons for an objectivity. I really appeal to you next time be careful, listen to what the MPs say, and secondly, when you react, be as objective as possible. That is why I now recommend that you give Mr Đurić the opportunity to reply with a replica to everything that has been misread by Mrs Tomic about his discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24333	I'm sorry you're obsessed with the PIO Fund. I'm not a recipient at all. So if you think I'm running it, I didn't even notice that the PIO Fund was mentioned. He did mention a store, a shop, that's his right. It's not true to tell you, it's up to you. I'm sorry that you think, I listened very carefully to Mr. Djuric and all of you, therefore, the right to give a replica is exclusively my right, it's my assessment, you have to respect it, if you will, if you won't, it's another problem of yours. You may ask us to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Judita Popovic, from town: Yes. All right. We'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24334	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, respected fellow MPs, the Law on the Protection of Competition is an extremely important anti-monopol law and it is a good thing that we have today amendments and additions to this law, because if we have all closely followed the discussion today in the Assembly, no one is satisfied with the current situation on the market in Serbia today. We cannot say because we are satisfied with the work of the Competition Protection Commission, and if this has been contributed by unclear legislation, then it is good to make changes now. With some proposed amendments, we can agree as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, but we have also submitted a number of amendments to which we want to contribute to the improvement of this law. My colleague Gorica Gajic made some of our remarks on these proposed changes, I will look back on some more. Unfortunately, we were not in a position to bring an amendment relating to the definition of the relevant market, because these amendments and additions have not been treated, but I would point to that. We believe that the definition of the relevant market should have been clearer and more precise in the law itself, that it was not good that we left the Government to regulate the criteria, i.e. to determine a more precise and relevant market, since what is to praise this bill, these are changes that define more precisely the criteria for the dominant position on the market. We believe that the same could be done with a more precise and clear definition of the irrelevant market, which is extremely important for this area. Perhaps even the most significant proposed change concerns the extension of the limitation period, all my colleagues today talked about, to increase from three to five years, that is the practice shown, and that is how to look at the report on the work of the Competition Protection Commission, they also said that it was a problem because of complex cases and that this is a good thing that we have in these proposed changes, the extension of this deadline. When you look at the Commission's report on the work of the Competition Protection Commission, you can see that they consider that they have an insufficient number of employees working on cases. Whether it affects the quality of their work, whether things that are in front of the commission do not resolve faster, it is now to show time to judge, whether it is a reason or just unclear so far, legislation, which we are about to amend today. What they mention in their report on work is the inadequate business space in which they are located and for which they pay a high lease in private property, I believe that the state should provide the Commission and other agencies established by the Assembly and the Government to reduce costs, because whenever you pay private rent prices on the market shows and there is an increase in costs. Another observation, as regards these proposed amendments, concerns Article 22, which regulates procedures before a commission that are not completed until the date of entry into force. So, in paragraph 1, this is what we were talking about today – that these proceedings will be subject to this law when they enter into force, and then in paragraph 2, the procedures to determine the dominant position and limitations and the measures to protect competition are excluded. We believe that Section 2 should be deleted. We have also submitted an amendment simply to amend this proposed law. Due to limited time, and a number of proposed laws that are equally important, would refer to the e-commerce law. Electronic trade is extremely popular in the world, Serbia is still far from these trends, by some estimate 80% of our citizens have not yet used this type of purchase, so by electronic means. The reasons for this are multiple, non-trust and fear of money loss, fear of fraud, misuse of private information, all of these are reasons that still pose an obstacle to us making electronic trade more rapidly developed. Electronic trade in Serbia is also a problem of unclear customs regulations. Practice shows that customs regulations when customs goods purchased abroad are a problem for our citizens, they order goods from abroad, which is at a lower price, and I say our unclear, still customs regulations increase the price of these products bought by electronic means and we believe that they should move the customs limit that is now for shipments up to 50 euros is for commercial goods, and up to 80 euros is for gifts and to improve electronic trade if they increase the amount to which these goods are not customs. What is important and what is sure to improve this area, that is the arrival of "Pepala", they said today, that our citizens can use the "Pepala" service from recently, from April of the month, so that they can buy goods unlimitedly, will improve even further, of course, when our citizens and our companies are able to sell and so on. That they can charge our goods, and we have something to offer on this market. We've heard from you that we're expecting this in some foreseeable period, and it's really going to improve this area. Legal regulation is something that is still a problem in this area. These amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade are good, but they are not enough. As you know, we need to amend the Law on Payment Services, Payment Transport, Accounting. What is not good, what I would agree with Mr. Djelic, which is, if there is an increase in VAT on computer equipment, that is one measure that the government brings, which cannot speed up this area, i.e. To advance it, it has huge potential. What else would I look back on? I don't think it's a good thing today we only have amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade, and we don't have any amendments and additions to these accompanying laws that need to improve this area. I know it's not up to you and that these other laws are not in your ministry's jurisdiction. I think you need to work together at that level to see that the government is unique, to propose amendments and additions to laws and to improve certain areas, by the government, i.e. The resolution ministry comes out with bill proposals covering the area. These laws that I mentioned, which are needed to arrange this area, are still not in the congregation procedure. When they come into congregation procedure, which depends on the government, i.e. from the ministry, it is then the responsibility of the President of the Assembly to put all these laws on the agenda and, in my view, it is logical that we have a united principle debate on this principle. So, if we're setting up a particular area, then the principle debate is united for e-commerce laws, accounting laws, payment services, payment services, and that we know that we're done with something. This is how we have important laws today, and I don't have time to look back at everything, because we've been united in principle, and yet we haven't completed anything. I say again, there are good changes here, these changes on e-commerce will advance, there will be improvement, but we haven't finished, and we can't say we've done the job to the end, which is in our power for our Members to vote, and yours to suggest. Of course, we can propose amendments and additions to the law, but practice has shown that what opposition MPs propose in this House, unfortunately cannot come to the agenda and can't discuss them, so I leave that responsibility on you, you can do so and, in agreement with your colleagues, find a way to come here in front of us in the future and say, we are now promoting and rounding up this area, by changing all these laws that are necessary. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24335	Thank you. Natasa Micic, on what basis are you answering? (Natasa Micic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mrs. Micic, just to warn you, it's probably about the previous case. It says here in the Rules of Procedure that the MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the procedure of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury has been done. In the meantime, I gave my word to the People's Parliament to the Spirit of Morchev, and you were too late in that regard. So I wouldn't be so stubborn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24336	Mr. Chairman, I believe you've violated several provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Article 27 concerning your powers, Article 107 concerning the dignity of the Assembly and Article 109 relating to the statement of notice. Namely, before you gave the word to your colleague, you gave the warning to Judita Popovic, without any explanation, and I mean without any basis. Mr. Chairman, before that, you have injured the Rules of Procedure by denying the right of replica to MP Bojan Đurić. It is your discretionary right. I agree with you here, but I think Mr. Djuric was entitled to a replica. You denied him the replica because he addressed the MP Tomic directly, and he did not really speak directly at all, but commented on her discussion, mentioning her name. So we are not allowed MPs, and this is true, according to the Rules of Procedure, that we address directly the MPs or other participants, for example the Minister. I would not be allowed to say – Mr. Minister or Mr. Ljajic, why did you not mention in your explanation of the Competition Protection Act that Simpo was released from debt, but I am allowed to say – Mr. Ljajic, I think you missed and it is not good for this country not to offer a concrete explanation of how much it affects competition that Simpo is free of that debt. Do you understand? The difference is in indirect and direct speech. Therefore, although incorrectly interpreted, he had the right to receive a replica, Bojan Đuric was denied for it, and on top of that, you gave the MPs Juditi Popovic, who only pointed out that you had violated all these provisions, without any basis and reason, and did not violate the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24337	Just one brief comment. I claim it's my discretionary right to assess whether or not I'm going to give someone a replica. I've estimated that Aleksandra Tomic has a right to replication and I gave it to her. Aleksandra Tomic, once again, did not mention in her replica any of her words... (Nataša Micic, from the place: She misread, which is the second basis for the right of replication. Don’t let me give you a warning. You have no right to comment... (Nataša Micic, from the site: You made a mistake, you did not turn off my microphone.) It's your fault. Now I'm going to shut you down. As for the reminder to Mrs. Judith, read the stenogram, and you will see why I gave the warning. It's my right. After all, the Management Board will decide whether I was right or wrong. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24338	So you've injured Article 109, Mr. Arsenovic. It's not your right to give a warning like that. Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are prescribed to give notice. You didn't carry out this procedure. That part has both material and process aspects, that member. It's stupid to argue here that way. You must state the reason why you gave the warning to Mrs Popovic. It's not your discretionary right. Let's leave aside, discretionary law, replica, not mentioning that case anymore. Now I'm talking about Ms Popovic's warning. In accordance with Article 109. You do not have the opportunity to give notice without reason. You have to tell me what base you're calling on. You warned Mrs Popovic when she said - do not tell the truth. It's not an insult, is it, Mr. Arsenovic? It's not an insult. That's her assessment. You can discuss it, but it can't be the basis for a warning. Before that, you didn't warn Mrs Popovic if you thought... Can you warn Mr. Colakovic not to interrupt me while I speak? Please conduct the procedure referred to in Rule 109 of this Rules of Procedure. You can't act that way. Give notices to MPs who carry both financial and different other effects. That is why Article 109 is very precisely prescribed which are the limits of your powers and what is the procedure for you to impose sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24339	Mrs. Judith very insultingly expressed herself to the chairman, and that is why she was warned. I don't think there's any need to comment anymore. Mr. Colakovic, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24340	I'm reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't warn him. I haven't said a word now. I was just looking at him and I didn't say a word, and he was throwing someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24341	Mrs. Gerov, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24342	Article 107, Chairman. You have just violated the dignity of the National Assembly when you have now declared that you have made a warning to Judit Popovic because she has expressed herself very offensively. Mr. Chairman, repeat what Judita Popovic said and in a way that was offensive. That, Mr. Chairman, is one lie. She told you not to tell the truth. That's not offensive. We had a chance here yesterday to listen to how we were dilettantes, how we ignorant and you didn't give a warning about it. There is no good enough reason under Article 109, so there is no basis for Judit Popovic to tell the lie. It is offensive, Mr. Chairman, that you have now violated the dignity of the Assembly and the 107th member when you told the lie that Judita Popovic was insultingly expressing herself. I ask you to give us a stenogram, so right now, what Mrs. Judita Popovic said and to read publicly in front of everyone what offensive word she used.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24343	Mrs. Gerov, it is your right to have your opinion and opinion, and it is my right to maintain my position and opinion. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: She had a specific request. Please, I don't want to argue with you at all. Don't throw it away. Now I'm going to give my notices for a throw-off. So do I have the right to give a warning? I do. Are you going to say I have no right now? Then don't throw it away, so I'll give you a heads-up. You'll be sorry later. I know it itches your pocket, then be cultural, dignified. (Bojan Đuric, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You won't get it. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24344	Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the modern anti-monopol legislation, as well as a quality and adequate mechanism for protecting market participants and fair competitions, is a prerequisite for the normal business of all entities in terms of market economy. Since it is the state that provides the same position for all market participants under the Constitution, it is the establishment of an adequate institutional framework to achieve this task, the obligation to both its citizens and their companies, as well as the obligation to harmonise the domestic legal system with the EU's legal assets. Moreover, the public good that such a mechanism should protect against interest is for every citizen of this country, because monopolies are a threat to both the general business climate and the home budget of every family. The bill, which lies before MPs, does not deviate from the existing framework and the system of protection of free competition and fair game, but is promoted and completed in the essential segments. The proposed interventions are due to practical experiences and problems which are sought to address, which have emerged in the functioning of the Competition Protection Commission, as a central institution dealing with the protection and enforcement of the provisions of the law. At the same time, in certain segments, the law is brought into line with the rules applicable in the EU. As the biggest problems in the application of the law, the short procedural deadlines for the Commission's proceedings for the protection of competition, the length of proceedings in administrative proceedings under the complaints of the participants on the Commission's decision market, the consequences of the abolition of the competition measure in the court proceedings, and with particular regard to the return of the funds paid for the corresponding interest and the resources of the Commission, the ambiguity regarding the application of individual institutes in the procedure before the Commission and the need for sanctioning parties and third parties in respect of certain obligations imposed by the Commission. Also, the need for a more precise and adequate definition of the conditions for determining the dominant position on the market was seen by introducing corrective elements in relation to the basic, i.e. a fixed market share of 40%, which is the basis for the protection of the free market and for the increased competition. The short procedural deadlines before the Commission, as well as the length of the court proceedings, have been apostrophyd as key problems, which is not strange, taking into account the complexity of the material being processed in the process. Accordingly, the law provides for an increase in the procedural deadlines for the Commission's action from three to five years to 10 years, respectively. In addition, deadlines for the administration and Supreme Cassation Court's conduct are extended in the administrative court procedure and the emergency procedures, taking into account that the complex matter discussed in these disputes requires special expertise on the part of the judges concerned. It also intervenes with regard to the composition of committees, i.e. the professional profiles of the members, and in particular introduces the obligation to prescribe the code of ethics of the members of the Commission. As regards the consequences of the elimination of competition protection measures, the provisions so far which the Commission has been the one that has been the one that has the consequences of the suspension in terms of the return of the interest-paid funds, which has made it very difficult and threatened the Commission's work. As already noted, the proposal to amend and supplement the fruit is a practical experience in the Commission's work with an effort to improve it, and in this respect is a step further in the adequate protection of market participants and the achievement of the constitutional function of the state. That's what we think we need to support him. Our PUPS parliamentary group has submitted one amendment to Article 20, so we believe that the government will adopt it, and the minister will take a closer look at the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24346	Thank you. Articles 103, 107, 127 and 128. I think you know what 127 and 128 apply to. We have cards, and we have no MPs, in the electronic system. Second, Article 103. Mr. Chairman, whenever an MP asks for a word based on a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to allow him to make a statement as to what he sees that you, as chairman, have injured the Rules of Procedure. You didn't even allow LDP MPs to make a statement about what you hurt the Rules of Procedure. That's how you actually hurt the dignity of this congregation. This assembly has 250 MPs, and LDP MPs are among the MPs. I find that you are in an unworthy way acting as chairman in today's session. Not if you have made your decision hastily in terms of making warnings, it is the least of the problems, but don't apologize later in the towers for doing so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24347	Mrs. Judith, I suggest that this advertising of yours be made known to the Assembly. If the Assembly declares that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a violation of the dignity of the Assembly, as you claimed, I will apologize to you and resolve this problem. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24348	I think you've hurt Article 107. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24349	You've already called on article 107 three times already. - Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and you third. On that basis, you have no right, but I'll let you. Let me just say, right now I should give you a heads-up on the Rules of Procedure, because you're misusing the Rules of Procedure. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24350	Mr Arsenović, we have made it clear a thousand times that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which say that one injury, or one member of the Rules of Procedure, can be pointed out for any event that the MP is under the application of that article. We do not have time and opportunities in the Assembly to constantly elaborate the theory of the rights and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. You took 20 seconds away from me without need. I suggest you, and that's why I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, to give yourself a warning. Don't act like it. I don't want this debate to look like this. We got into all this without need. But don't have such rude and malice comments – you'll regret it later, it'll itch your pocket. Mr. Arsenović, don't judge my relationship to money. I'll pay my fines in the Assembly. I have no ambition to have both salary and pension and compensation and everything else. Please don't interpret whether I or anyone else will itch or it won't itch. It's beneath the dignity of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24351	Mr. Djuric, you have spoken to me with insults, that I am malice, rude. (Bojan Djuric, from the place: It is not an insult. What, then, is it an insult to be rude? That's why I give you a warning. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24352	I'm giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, since you've acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24353	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24354	Mr. Chairman, I have mentioned to you earlier the members I call on – 127 and 128. You have not responded to this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go and look at the benches where the members of the SNS and the others are sitting in that MP's club. Go ahead. You didn't react. Obviously, you reacted very quickly and quickly to everything that LDP MPs say, and thus you look lightly at everything they do, or miss the work of the other MPs, and they belong to the ruling coalition. Mr. Chairman, please consult with the other vice-presidents and the President, consult with the secretariat, and agree on how you think you are applying the Rules of Procedure, whether this will go exactly according to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure or by some ordinary law or by some ad hoc solution to the situation. I think we have a Rules of Procedure that should be respected, and everything else is too creative to interpret having a session in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24355	As far as the cards are concerned, I've already given a warrant to get them out. Now I call again on the Assembly’s professional service to take away the cards found in the electronic system. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24356	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with associates, we are now considering practically seven draft laws. To make it clear to everyone what we are talking about, these are: Proposal for a Law on Transport Intermediation and Immobilisation; Proposal for a Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose; Proposal for a Law on Exchanges and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Competition; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the field of Information and Communication Technologies; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on Mutual Encouraging Investments and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the establishment of a Mixed Trade Commission, Economic and Scientific Engineering Cooperation. Obviously, all these topics are extremely connected. There is justification to discuss the Agreement with Morocco together with the Transport Intermediation Act and the lease of immovable property. I tried to find the touch points and believe me, some things I've done. Unbelievable, but true. Namely, let's start with certain laws, the Transport Intermediation Act and the Hire of immovableity. A public registry of intermediaries that can be seen on the Internet. It has to do with the Internet, it has to do with IT technology. There are good things here, with regard to the professional examination, business space, insurance contracts, liability for damages, the introduction of order and everything else. It is good that the register of intermediaries will be available, however, if the government's economic measures are met and the IT tax increase, software and hardware technology from 8% to 20% less people will be who will be able to buy their child's computer, and enable it to use it adequately, not to get into a situation, as some MPs have spoken, upside down to include a laptop, whether it will be electrocuted or not. On the other hand, we have a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of IT information and communication technologies. Perhaps when we work together to digitise part of the cost of those 12%, as well as Azerbaijan, where currently 4% of lawmakers are staying in control of the presidential elections, we might be able to lean a little bit on them as well as on such fees. I tried to find touch points between one, the other, the third and the fifth laws. Amendments and additions to the e-commerce Act. This is about harmonisation with EU directives. However, as in the traffic of immovableity, the traffic of immovableity has fallen, especially since the arrival of the new government, so trade has fallen since the arrival of the new government. The value of the store has dropped by about 13% in the last year. Let's not talk about papal and other things. I'd like to say a few words about the Competition Protection Act. Many say it's the most important law in a package of these laws. However, there are at least three major problems. The Commission earns from the concentration decisions charged, which gives it bad incentives. The other thing is, what happens when the court says he's wrong? Is that money paying you back and who's it paying back to? Is he going back to the budget? The settlement issue with us in Serbia is always questionable. Finally, the commission still has no authority over the financial sector. Our parliamentary group wants to limit the margins and compensations in accordance with the law. We're the law of that kind and we suggested. For the sake of illustrating everything we've been seeing lately, and we're facing a situation where one day a law is proposed to us to declare it in three days, with all the amendments and everything else. We're in a situation where an unauthorized ministry is proposing a law, and the competent ministry doesn't know what it's doing. We happen to have BIA in high education, and the Ministry of Education says, we're not going to exercise administrative control over this kind of education. Tomorrow when I finish BIA school, then I don't get a job at the BIA, who's gonna hire me, and how are we gonna do that? Who's gonna admit that school to me? Or, if there is a violation of the law, will the M.O.P. handle the issue of administrative oversight? One law passed, another law passed, and I now want to refer to this law that is before us, which is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition. Just one thing to point out. In Article 21, we got a reason for the law. Amendments to Article 72 of the law set out deadlines for handling the lawsuit and administrative dispute against the Commission's acts for greater efficiency. So, it was slow, let's go faster. Does that mean anything? Then I take and turn a part of the law where you say what changes. What was eight days now is 15, what was 15 now is 30 days, what was two months now is three months. I don't know who's crazy here. Is it efficiency or not efficiency? It is a member of the 72nd basic text to be amended by Article 21. That's all I'm asking. If you give me an adequate answer, I'll be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24357	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24358	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the essence of the competition rules means creating conditions for a competition match, and that means above all, that, in addition to the measure of prevention, there is also a penalty for harming competition. At the very beginning, I would like to say that it is good that the draft law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act provides for Article 68, which sets out the measure to protect competition for a participant on the market and determines the obligation of a cash amount of up to 10% of total turnover, in fact, annual revenues achieved in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is at this point clearly defined what traffic is meant. Because of this very substance and because of the movement of the Republic of Serbia towards the EU, the dynamics of the market, of course it is necessary to improve the legal framework when it comes to the protection of competition, above all using the previous experience in the application of the law since 2009, when the Commission itself has received significantly greater powers. Without a doubt, the Competition Protection Commission is an independent and independent organisation that corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has a special role and importance in the process of creating a stable and recognizable business environment, as we have seen in the package of measures, one of the priorities of the Government. That's measure six. It's something that capital recognizes, goes towards such an environment, goes to such states. The Republic of Serbia needs new investments, new jobs and no doubt that this area and the Competition Protection Commission play a special role in this regard. This is a process that takes place and it is good that this bill respects certain suggestions and recommendations made by the European Commission, particularly when it comes to limitation deadlines, then clear criteria for determining the market power of participants, then suspending the procedure in the event of the elimination of irregularities. Of course, such a single legal framework will certainly improve and improve the area of competition protection. But the experience from the previous period points to us and tells us that the co-operation of all institutions and some other institutions dealing with this matter is necessary, because we have heard and more participants in the debate have talked about judicial protection and, of course, the case law will have to experience a kind of promotion. You said that since 16, 12, however, and deadlines for these judgments can be significantly improved and it is without a doubt that court practice can also contribute to this domain that the Commission for the Protection of Competition and even society to this problem has one more effective and better result and relationship. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Competition Protection Act, the Commission receives another obligation – the burden of proof is this time on the Commission and some additional powers and obligations. I looked at the 2012 Commission's 2012 work report, and they say themselves, and this report shows that there are certain organisational reserves, problems in terms of finance, but that, let's say, the staff structure in the Commission is even good and that of 32 employees, 26 are highly skilled, and as far as I understand 54 jobs are foreseen based on systematicisation. Given this, and knowing the government's determination to expect a significant reform of public administration and of all the institutions in our country, I think that there is room here that when it comes to the work of the Commission this fact is respected and that where there are extra employees and is no longer sustainable, it is necessary to take care, as the prime minister himself said, of some rationalisation. But also in institutions where there is room for even better work, because these indicators say that, for example, compared to countries in the former SFRY, this particular number of employees may not be at the necessary level and I think that this should be respected in the next period. Of course, these changes, I appreciate, will lead to a significantly improved legal framework for the work of the Commission itself, primarily to improve the business environment in Serbia. All this personal me and the SPS Parliament Club define that we in principle support this draft law on amendments and additions to the Competition Protection Act. The 2009 e-commerce law provides for a legal framework for the conduct of electronic trade and then provides mandatory information, mandatory data prior to the conclusion of the contract, conditions for the full importance of the contract, as well as a procedure for the conclusion of the contract, in order to ensure transparency of business and the protection of users of services and consumers. Electronic trade usually involves operations, purchases and sales of products and services provided via the Internet, and that is a narrow definition of electronic trade most commonly used. It had its expansion in 2005 in highly developed countries in Western Europe. In the underdeveloped countries and third world countries, it was not even recognizable. However, electronic trade has unlimited opportunities and potential and offers and offers certain advantages for all countries, above all, because this provides a large market, lower costs and faster turnover of capital. Customers are assured that they obtain products and services cheaper in many markets and compare different prices. For example, Internet stores are available to customers 24 hours a week and there is no physical contact, some additional expensive storage or business space, and inventory control is done automatically. So there's a series of advantages. More than once during the debate, certain data are presented here that speak about what was the size of electronic trade in the Republic of Serbia, what are the average value of transactions, how many participants were involved, but also that information that was stated that the value of electronic trade in the EU is about 300 billion euros confirms great potential. We need to realize that we are at the initial stage of developing purchases and selling through the Internet. This contributes to certain mistrust, unknowns, weak computer literacy, the paid power of the population and, in turn, certain inaccuracies when it comes to legislative regulation. But, of course, the future and the long-term perspective of access to such a large market and the contribution to economic development and employment are very important, and that IT industry has a long-term potential for the fastest growing industry in the Republic of Serbia, and in this sense I want to say that it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made certain moves in this direction. In May of this year, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic visited the United States on several occasions and had contacts with globally significant companies from this area, such as Sisko, IBM, Huit Packard, Amazon, oracles, Apple, Google Enterprise, as well as the world's leading IT company, Intel and thus clearly confirmed the government's determination and willingness to support the investment of these companies in our country and to create a prerequisite for the opening of a large number of jobs, development of IT companies and scientific and research work in our country. Information technologies, therefore, are a growth-recording branch in Serbia, and some of these companies have really made good grades, especially when it comes to our staff and experts in this area. Of course, it is a fact that confirms the good definition and good course of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, with the goal and desire for Serbia to one day be positioned as a leader in IT technologies in the region and catch a link with movements in the modern world. As a result, it is absolutely understandable and I want to support the amendment and addition of the Law on Electronic Trade, estimating the need to implement, after the expiry of a certain time and application of this law on electronic trade, certain solutions, particularly when it comes to changes in the legal terms of the contract, the extension of the field of application relating to non-registered and non-registration of entities from the Republic of Serbia, and their economic activity is related to the market of the Republic of Serbia, the extension of powers to the market inspector and the possibility of expressing certain measures or the fact that the provision of services of an information society in the cases provided by law could be improved in some ways. Appreciateing all the significant opportunities and advantages of electronic trade and the clear direction of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to support in principle this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Trade. Finally, given that our authorised promoter, Susana Spasojevic, spoke about the first law, and we had no opportunity to express our position on the proposal for a law on exporting and importing goods for a double purpose, since this law also agrees with our legislation in this area of the EU, and that all countries in the environment have already passed their national laws and that this area has been regulated by one law from the previous state community, we absolutely believe that it is time for one such law to be passed. The aim of the law is certainly to establish controls in the areas of exports and imports of dual-use goods and the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance, and above all to protect the area of security, defence, foreign-political interests and international credibility of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, these objectives themselves speak about the importance of regulating such an area and the aim is to establish control, that, on the basis of the permit and the list established by the Resorship Ministry of Double Purpose, which is in line with the list, which exists in the EU, one area that is very important and that is why I want to support this bill. Of course, the SPS parliamentary club in principle supports the proposal for a law on export and import of dual-use goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24359	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24360	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Deputy Prime Minister, the representatives of the Ministry, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The Liberal Democratic Party has tabled amendments to the proposed laws we are considering today. Some of those amendments were accepted by the government. We believe that this has made our contribution, to make the proposed laws better and better. I will speak, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and on the lease of immovable property. In your opening statement, you spoke about this law and you said that the state has no data on the transactions made, that this bill makes you practically want to put order into existing agencies and allow the formation of new agencies that will deal with traffic and the lease of immovable property, that you want to ensure legal certainty for citizens, but above all that you want to reduce the black and gray market in this area. In practice, you want to provide additional funds for the republican budget. It's acceptable for us in the LDP, because we think we need to curb that black and gray economy. You will agree, Minister, before you commit to something of the citizens and existing agencies, as well as those that will be subsequently formed, an example of how they manage real estates, how they are leased or how they are sold should be given by the state, i.e. Government, ministries and local self-government. They should set an example of how successful, homely, quality management of real estates. It doesn't matter just that, from the lease of real estate in the state property, for example when the unit of local self-government gives it, it's going to be a revenue for the local self-government budget, but it should be an example of how these future agencies and the ones that exist now should work. Unfortunately, we do not have such examples in practice. I guess some things you may not know, how it works in Serbia. You know very well that in order to rent real estate owned by local self-government, cities or municipalities it is necessary to obtain prior consent from the Republic Property Directorate. Once upon a time, in some earlier years, this lease agreement was waiting maybe a year or more, and today it is in a few months. But if this government introduces a set of new austerity measures, if this country needs revenue, then the state must also pay attention to what certain units of local self-government do, which, without the consent of the Republic Property Directorate, lend their assets to the lease. I don't mean to say it's a criminal act, but I'm going to give you an example of one of those local self-government units, so one of your colleagues who says for that area whether it is or not a crime. In Zajecar, where SNS, SPS and PUPS are in power, Zajecar is former director of television "Best". There is a verdict by the Court of Appeal that this television will be expelled from the municipal, i.e. City halls, because years ago she didn't pay the rent and she's supposed to pay the city 11 and a few million. The president of the City of Zaječar Assembly, from the SNS, convenes the session by emergency procedure, replaces the public defender and puts debt beatings between the city and television on the agenda. You know very well that under the Budgetary System Act there are no compensations for local self-government units. Since the session was followed by the media, and not one after that, the media no longer has access and there is a full media darkness, in Zajecar, that point was withdrawn, so that the next day on the city council a decision on beatings would be made in some way. Instead of getting the City of Zaječar 11 million out of a real estate lease, it goes through for 36 months. That's what I have the papers for. In addition, as the second or third position of that decision, the order is given to order the re-licence for that 1100-square facility. Eight days later, a bid was conducted on the facility and the same television, whose director became mayor, set the space at 50% lower than the price they were due to pay by then. So instead of the City of Zaječar getting 400,000 dinars a month, and since this is a three-year contract, that's for 214,000. The city of Zajecar loses 7.5 million dinars. Does the state have money to throw away? I don't think so. How is it possible, Minister, that, without the consent of the Republic Property Directorate, someone has been laudingly reducing the price by 50%, and that when it comes to auctioning, which lasts only seven days, the condition is that you have 45 workers, and the preferred one has a regional frequency for television and radio programmes? I'm sorry, I really think it's part of some kind of crime. (President: Time. I'll finish. If there's one more thing I can do? In Arangelovac, since we are all talking about investors, two facilities were purchased in privatisation, and this hotel "Old Building" and Hotel "Shumadi". On October 4th, the investor made a request for a break-up of privatisation, as for a year he did not get permission to invest, and he planned to invest 50m euros. It's incompetent power and incompetent...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24361	You spoke half a minute longer. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24362	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister and distinguished guests from the Ministry, we are talking today in this united debate about several really important system laws and a proposal to amend existing laws, as well as the creation of some new laws in some areas that I find very sensitive with several aspects. I will particularly apostrophe of two amendments to the law, which are: the amendment and addition of the Law on the Protection of Competition, which I find really sensitive from the point of view of political and economic repercussion and, on the other hand, the Law on Export and Import of Double Purpose, which I consider sensitive to security risks and challenges. That's what I'm going to do in my discussion, hopefully, and prove it. Unfortunately, I have to make some criticisms, although I represent the ruling party and although I am a member of the ruling coalition, but with some solutions I am not satisfied and to the extent that I am also a dilettante in relation to some of these things, I am not ashamed to say it, so that the previous speaker did not have to repeat it, I am building on some possibilities that I have misunderstood or misread or perhaps misunderstood those who are more professional than me, which, of course, I have asked, because I always have to ask those who know better than you. One of the previous speakers, I don't really know who it is, really scored in a way that regulation of these important areas that we're talking about today is good, but it's not a guarantee, and I'm pretty sure it's not, successful in practice. However, I would go beyond that assessment, because one of these laws, which is the Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose, in my opinion, given the lack of remainder of the legal framework, is not even full, not possible for the implementation and full implementation of the Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose, since there are no roof laws that would provide for implementation in an area relating to working with classified data in electronic form, which I will now, in the light of these shortcomings, try to explain in the right way. Because of this regulatory lack, I have not even submitted amendments to this law, because without the adoption of the information security law, which is in the jurisdiction of your ministry and without the adoption of a national cyber defence strategy, which we, I chair, have consulted with the National Security Council Office, and have received their suggestions and comments, I really do not know how much this law is fully applicable. Therefore, the export and import law of dual-use goods provides for the handling of classified information, in accordance with the Data Securitisation Act, which refers to handling i.e. creating, saving, sharing classified information. I feel it is necessary to point out that the handling of classified data in electronic form, as I have already said, is currently a major problem in practical application, because no regulations have been adopted that regulate and regulate the area of protection of classified data in electronic form. There is one regulation on specific measures to protect classified information in information and telecommunications systems. It was passed on the basis of the Data Securitisation Act, but as such it is completely insufficient to regulate the area of information security. We all know that modern businesses are made online, often through private providers. I think the need to define the obligation to protect confidential data in information and communication systems, as it is said, which are handled by companies in the process of importing and exporting dual-use goods. In this regard, industrial security activities, which are now being introduced as a new syntagma in many legal solutions, include in one part the handling of classified data through the information network, which should be such as to protect individual segments of the company's business, which again opens up the problem of the absence of rules governing the area of cyber defence. That, of course, is not the responsibility of your Ministry of Cyber Defence Strategy and I'm not apostrophe of you, but I'm saying it's one subject that tangs and how this law is applied. In addition to this, the problem of the protection of classified information in information systems is that, indeed, the complete non-definition of national authorities responsible for the areas of information and cyber security, one deficit of trained people, so human resources, in this respect, and the necessary resources to respond in the event of an attack on these critical information structures. Since all this data, which I met with through the National Security Council Office and its Director, Mr Matic, I also came to the conclusion that the Office of the National Security and Security Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia sent a letter to all the ministries and state bodies concerned and requested opinions and suggestions on the need to build a national cyber defence concept and that it received a positive response and a positive opinion from all ministries and state authorities. Also, some concrete steps have been proposed in this regard, but the condition of all conditions is the adoption of an information security law. That's why I said I didn't know how fully applicable this law is. That's your ministry's jurisdiction, which is why I'm bringing it up to you, and the information security bill was built in 2012, I know it. However, the opinion of the relevant ministries has not been passed. That's why I really insist on it, to restart the activity on its design and the urgent adoption it takes. It's really one roof law we have to pass. For this reason, I really do, and I will repeat again, with all due respect to the need to pass such a law, that because of this lack of regulation of an area relating to working with classified data in electronic form and without the above, which I found in the text, so it is said – the above rules, that I do not repeat them, I really do not think that it is possible to implement this law until the end. The second part of my debate, and I'll try to be brief because, again, I'm a dilettante and a layman about these things, but I've consulted, so you'll forgive me if I didn't understand it the right way. I have not even submitted amendments here, respecting the fact that this has passed, that this bill on amendments and additions to the Competition Protection Act has passed a long public debate. He's been in public debate for a really long time, and everyone has the right to take an opinion. I wasn't active in this, and that's why I didn't think I should stand for the amendments, but I'm glad the representatives of the ministry are here, and they're going to hear this kind of criticism, or some might be complemented, so mind you, because this is one constantly processing matter, something's going to change again, so maybe there's a chance that something will add up to this too. As a fundamental objective, which I understood, this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Competition is actually an improvement of the existing legal, or procedurally-legislative, to be more precise and to remove these numerous or possible obstacles which stand in the way of a full application of competition rules in the procedure before the Commission, as well as to improve the Commission's work itself. The focus was on the formal status of the Commission itself, its competences and its competences, as well as its composition, its independence and its impartiality. This is normally settled in the proposed provisions, I think it is Articles 3 and 5, i.e. Articles 3 to 5, because Article 4 regulates, amends and amends the law through requests for representative participation of experts in the field of law and economy, which Mrs Tomic already spoke of, within the Council, which at this point seems to me not to be represented and actually refers to the Commission's obligation to adopt an ethical code establishing certain uniform rules of conduct and behaviour of members of bodies and employees. In fact, it concerns the Commission's obligation to adopt an ethical code laying down one single rule of conduct and the conduct of members of bodies and employees. He expects the competition that I hope will be announced in the future to be so highly required and to meet these criteria and this parity between the needs of the legal and economic profession, of course and the fulfilment of the ethical code. But what I saw as a problem, and I asked why. I was given the answer that it was requested by the Administration for Revenue, which is, in fact, Article 14 which says that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are intended to enforce the necessary measure to protect competition, i.e. the procedural penalty during the process itself, as well as the refund of funds in the event of their reduction or cancellation by a court decision, and then the tax administration is implemented in accordance with the rules governing the collection of taxes. The change specified that forced payment should be carried out according to the rules of mandatory tax collection in the tax procedure. It was not clear to me if it was some kind of Lex speciality compared to what the provisions of the Internal Payments Act were. Since I am not a lawyer, I have consulted, and I have received the view that such treatment of fines as tax-debted foreigners in the process further imposes obligations on one of the prescribed security funds that the party must make in postponing the tax debt. I've been informed in fact that the Department of Revenue, not knowing how to treat this debt and this punishment itself, is not knowing how to secure the payment of this penalty, or this penalty, actually looking for such a legal solution. I don't know how much that's in collegiate with the Internal Payments Act, and that's why I'm saying this dilemma, respecting it, again, that I didn't understand it very well. At the same time, I really find it drastic that the 19th member specified that the market participant is determined in the form of a monetary payment obligation of up to 10% of the total annual income achieved in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I really believe that these are far the highest amounts of fines that can be imposed in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's very restrictive. Restrictive parties were brought into the process and that this was indeed the conversion of criminal measures into tax debt further burdened the parties in the process and equated them with the situation of the taxpayer for what I am really not sure how much it is in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm saying again, it's seeing as I understand it because it's really amazing that in this way the parties in the process are burdened at a higher level and by the really most possible amounts. At the same time, I got an explanation, you tell me, maybe I'm wrong, that under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, at the request of the taxpayer, the tax administration itself can either delay the payment of the tax debt. However, I am now interested in the fact that the tax administration will, in practice, act on forced payment of fines as a tax debt. Therefore, it is not clear to me, and I am not sure that even through this legal solution it is clear to the end, especially in the case where the Competition Protection Commission has already made a different decision on the same reasons it has punished, or granted a procedural penalty to the parties. I didn't understand it, and I'm asking for clarification. The next thing that was unclear to me is that in the procedure before the Commission itself, which, of course, extends its competences and competences, therefore, some rules, some general administrative procedure, but what is applied before the Commission, I do not understand how the party in the procedure cannot influence the course of the proceedings, nor that it points to any failures, but can only do so in the process of adopting the commission's solution. Therefore, in view of the length of the procedure itself. I wonder, and that seems to me to be a legal solution, five years, that the duration of the procedure may be, in my opinion, fully devising the position of the party in this procedure and therefore I don't know whether the existing solution should have been changed. I'm not sure which member it is, but I think it's part 38 if I'm not mistaken. These are things that have not been clear to me until the end, but I understand that this is also a variable matter and that we can also talk here that the interests of interested parties may not always be based on interests, if I may say so, so to speak, that it is an oxymorous regulation of the free market and competition, and that would really be an oxidative market, we should not predict regulation, but some mechanisms we need to determine. I have not submitted amendments, and I believe that you have carefully analyzed everything that has been examples in practice that have proved to be bad and that you have therefore made such solutions. I'm saying again, these are some remarks that I've asked for further clarification and it's not explained to me until the end, and that's why I wanted to point to them, and of course, we're going to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24363	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24364	I'll be very brief. The part of forced collection is fully in line with the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Procedure. It was a request from the tax administration. Therefore, the whole procedure, the way the billing, the terms, everything was transferred to the tax administration. As far as deadlines are concerned, the first European Commission's request to amend this law concerned exactly that extension from three to five years. The three-year term was insufficient. We've had countless objects that have become obsolete. A complex analysis is needed, the collection of documentation and it is obvious that the three-year deadline was not enough not only for our Competition Protection Commission, but also for many more developed European countries, the three-year deadline was insufficient. Speaking of deadlines, I'm taking the opportunity, Mr. Mikovic has already mentioned this intensibly, that we have extended some deadlines from eight to 15 days, from 15 to 30 days and from two to three months, related to the same law. What's the point? It is not essential that we increase efficiency by extending these deadlines. The point is to gain quality. First, it was a request from the commission itself, because these deadlines that were earlier were also insufficient. Secondly, it's about instructive deadlines. The third thing, here's what practice has shown, especially when it comes to the rulings of the Supreme Cassation Court. We have the case since 29 June 2012, the ruling of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Court of Justice's ruling of 21 April 2011 and the Commission's decision of 24 January 2011, which sets out the measure of competition protection, does not matter which participant is on the market. Therefore, we have defined this deadline for the declaration of the VCS for only three months. It is also an instructive period, because we cannot order the court to declare itself within what time. We've seen here, a year's deadline, and that's an increase in efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-10-0.u24365	Dear People's MPs, this is what we do today's work. I hereby extend the session at 10.00 a.m. on 16 October 2013.
