ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Please determine the working quorum. Based on your statement that there is a quorum for work, there are more than 84 MPs present. You have received the resignation of MP Paul Markov as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the letter of resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point 2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time for which it was elected to MP Paul Markov on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Dear People's MPs, since MP Vuk Jeremic did not take an oath to verify the mandate at the constituent session of the National Assembly, it is necessary now to take an oath, bearing in mind that his obligations in the area of international relations have ceased, which prevented him from participating in the work of the National Assembly. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, the MP repeats. ) "I swear to uphold the duty of the National Envoy to carry out my dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice" I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath, congratulate you and wish you successful joint work in this period. In order to coordinate the course of the session and work bodies, I'm setting a 30-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the mandate to the MP in order to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Slobodan Peric, elected from the electoral list Let's run Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of Members of Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Slobodan Peric. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. People's messenger, repeat the text of the oath: (The President reads the text of the oath, the Messenger of the people repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the national envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! “ I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Congratulations and let me wish you successful work together. I ask you to establish the quorum, given that it is in accordance with Article 88(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for working on the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Maja Gojkovic and Borislav Pelevic. Consensually. 86th and 87th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time and beyond those provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law of the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of promoters Lazar Krstic, Finance Minister and Igor Mirovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, I have called on the sittings to attend and Ljubisa Milosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Radmila Jagodic, Assistant Minister of Finance. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. In order to determine the agenda of the sitting, pursuant to Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect two members of the National Council for Higher Education, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Education Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 43 MPs of the Democratic Party Group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 43 MPs of the Democratic Party Group proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 43 MPs of the Democratic Party Group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 October 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 45 of the 165 MPs present did not vote for – 119 against – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 119, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote – 45 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Property. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Prior to that, MP Srdjan Milivojevic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23585	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I advertise the violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the President of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, which means, Mr. President, that you are responsible for the dignity of the National Assembly both in working hours and beyond. Since the day before yesterday, an elaborate campaign of part of the SNS MPs, in the most brutal and brazen way so far, has injured the dignity of the National Assembly by delivering untrue information in the tabloids and in this room...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23586	I can't let you move on. First, you can talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure that took place at this session and which was made by the President of the National Assembly. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Let me finish. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not refer to events that do not relate to what is done on the agenda and do not refer to what is happening in the congregation. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Then I ask for this session. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23587	Since the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, I ask you to obtain footage of cameras recording the hall during this session and during all previous sessions to show in the best way that truth is the best cure against every slander. With insecure faith that you as Parliament's president intend to build parliament as an institution of the greatest confidence of Serbian citizens, with the deepest respect for the citizens of Serbia that we represent, with a clear determination to stand in the way of prose and lies, I demand that you secure a recording from the previous session covering all security cameras so that we can present to the public what kind of funds some of the people's MPs who have a reserve country are using, and they clearly say, and treat this country as far as possible, which should be humiliated and humiliated by all its institutions as quickly as possible. I demand that you help me to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, to fight against those MPs who, in the Sadducees, want only to humiliate the institution you chair, to humiliate the Republic of Serbia so that they can further enable the sale of territories. Finally, I understand the fascination with fingers whether they stand like this or hold a trigger on a sniper pointed at Zoran Djindjic, Slavko Curuvija or Ivan Stambolic, it doesn't matter to me (President: there is no point in what you are doing, Mr. Milivojevic. It really doesn't make sense. What you do in the harshest way, first demeans the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm just asking you to secure security footage in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23588	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich, two minutes and 41 seconds. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken during the National Assembly session, but we will certainly declare it in the voting day. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23589	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I believe he is a injured member of the 27th and a member of the 168th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During yesterday's procedure, namely, the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property under number 011-3710/13 came into force. The fact is that your obligation was, Mr. President, that by Article 168. The draft law for which an emergency procedure is proposed shall be submitted to the MPs and to the Government, if it is not the legislator, immediately upon receipt. The fact is that the MP group of DS materials with the law received after 18.00 hours, was personally present in the premises of the parliamentary group when the expedition arrived. So it's 18.05. The second thing, since I'm looking at the E-parliament, which some have no option, I've seen about 12.00 hours on the e-parliament is the law, and at 13.00 hours, I've handed over the amendment to that law. Obviously, the material that was sent to all of us was sent after 13.00 hours, because my amendment was in the material. So obviously the minimum of three hours you've been late, and probably more since at 1800 hours we've received a convocation and everything else. In that sense, I say again, if we interpret the Rules of Procedure in one way, there is the possibility that the call should be sent a minute before the meeting of the Assembly. It is not the essence of respect for the Rules of Procedure, but of allowing MPs to engage in the debate, to put forward proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23590	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. First, I must tell you that it is absolutely impossible that when your law arrives in the procedure that you send 250 users at the same time after a minute. So, the material needs to be printed out and it needs to be enveloped, and sent to parliamentary groups. So it's definitely your parliamentary group, we're going to have it right now when she signed the secretary of your parliamentary group, at which time she signed the reception, certainly that's before 6:00, you'll get it soon. No, you'll get the exact signature log. As for, as you have seen, to say in the electronic version, so in electronic form, I believe that other MPs could have done so, I agree that maybe we should find mechanisms to do so sooner.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23591	You sent in a meeting before you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23592	You can't talk before you get the word. (From Srdjan Mikovic: You gave me the word. I didn't give you my word, it just technically didn't turn off the microphone. However, I will remind you that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for which I have not voted, and I have not adopted it, apply everything that has been done, has been done in accordance with the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately, as I have said to you in the afternoon part of the session in our conversation, that unfortunately there is a technical possibility that the sitting may be convened within a much shorter period than the deadline for the delivery of material, namely the proposed law or amendment, so the Rules of Procedure allow such opportunities. It's all in line with the Rules of Procedure. Since it's a law that only one member is changing, I think it's at least enough time to look at it. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23593	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently, no one in this room knows what we're discussing in practice these days, and what part of the agenda is in front of the MPs. Our parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23594	Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23595	Articles 27, 85 and 86 concern the holding of a session and the running of this congregation. The DS MPs submitted a proposal, establishing an emergency procedure for the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, establishing an emergency procedure for the Law on Arms and Ammunition and establishing the urgency of the procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted by our parliamentary group. We delivered that yesterday at the same time we got a call for this session. We felt that students and their parents should not be in suspense of how they will enter this school year and whether they will enroll it and whether it will be just financing or financing. We felt that the National Assembly needed to resolve it. Instead, you didn't even mention it today or put it on the agenda. We didn't know today if the session was starting, was it called just for the sake of taking an oath, to provide a quorum for the beginning of the session, and right now I don't know if we might be working in two halls, in large and small to achieve these two sessions that were practically in progress today, to lead in parallel? Simply, the chairman, you leave us little, almost leave us no time to prepare for the session, to prepare the amendments, to prepare our submissions for the agenda points. It was simply a vacuum that did not allow us to cope and to do the work of the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23596	As far as the Higher Education Act is concerned, I completely agree with you. I called a session about an hour ago on Monday to be dedicated to this law. So we'll have the Higher Education Act on the agenda, which the National Assembly will be able to discuss by mid-week, hopefully, to adopt these proposals that will allow all students to continue their education in the best possible way. As you can see, fully respecting the will of all MPs and government, I have put on the agenda, respecting the need to solve this important social problem. If I had put that on the agenda of the previous session, unfortunately we wouldn't be able to vote on it for another two weeks. So we're going to make this faster and more effective on the joy of all the students of this country. As for the new MP, I think it's incorrect to say if it's this one or that one. When it came to the MPs of your parliamentary group at the same time as you requested, I allowed them to replace themselves, take an oath and enter and become part of the parliamentary group. So let us not deny the right of any parliamentary group to fill their ranks at the same time and that these MPs have the opportunity to work in this National Assembly, whether they do most or not. As far as the session is concerned, whether the session is old or new, it is clear at the beginning of the session. I informed the National Assembly that it was the Second Extraordinary Session of the Second Regular Session, so that all MPs could know whether the session was new or old. Of course, if you're unhappy with this answer, we can make that clear in the voting day. You don't want to. Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23597	Dear President, you have injured members of position 2. Rules of Procedure and Rule 27. Rules of Procedure. I'll try briefly to explain to you what this injury is all about. First, you allowed it to enter the agenda as an orderly draft of the law, a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Property, although it does not meet the conditions set out in Rule 167(2) of this Rules of Procedure, which states that a law can be adopted by an urgent procedure which regulates issues and relations arises under circumstances which could not be foreseen. I think it is humiliating to Mr Stefanovic, to accept the government's argument that its members were unable to predict this year on October 2nd that October 6th, which is only four days later, will have to be amended by then. Then you allowed the Serbian government to humiliate this Parliament in the most terrible way possible. You're our representative to the government. Why do you let them do the next thing? To make it clear to people, chronology looked like this yesterday: at 9.39 p.m., the government withdrew a proposal to amend the Law on Public Property, at 9.40 p.m., a new Bill on Public Property, which is not the same as the one that was filed just three days ago, which we're going to talk about in the discussion. At 9:41 p.m., the Serbian government withdrew a proposal to amend the Law on Public Education. At 10:24 p.m., you signed the call for today's session without the Law on Higher Education, and at 10:25 p.m., the government re-sent a new Law on Higher Education that you couldn't put on this session. When you speak, I would say in a cynical way, that students will be happy in the middle of next week, we could discuss this law today or tomorrow at the break of this session. Just 10 more seconds, so I don't take any more time. The LDP parliamentary group decided not to submit amendments to the Law on Public Property so that we would not have the Assembly working another day needlessly on Sunday, but the guilt that the Assembly is likely to work exclusively on you, Mr Stefanovic, and this is due to your poor organisation and co-ordination with the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23598	Time. As you can see, today I suggested a agenda. Most MPs have decided what will be on the agenda and it is not the will of the National Assembly president, but the will of the majority in the National Assembly. The Messengers of the people, by the majority of the votes of all the messengers of the people, decide what will be the agenda of the congregation. As far as the Law on Higher Education is concerned, in consultation with the Minister, I have tried to provide all the necessary preconditions, therefore, for the minister to be present and that we can consider the law in such a way. In agreement with Minister Jovanovic, we decided that this is the only possible Monday. As far as I'm concerned, I wish we could have discussed it, maybe Thursday or today, but at this point it wasn't possible, and to meet the following preconditions for a high-quality session. There is no blame for the National Assembly, nor for mine as president of the Assembly, and yes, of course, we have fulfilled everything we need. Of course, you have the right to have your own attitude. I think what has been done, especially with regard to calling for an emergency procedure, since there is a provision that the adoption of an emergency law can cause adverse consequences, I believe that the adoption of this law could cause adverse consequences. That's why I think it's a good thing we have him on the agenda. Do you want us to say that in the voting day? Boyan Djuric, from the post: Yes. ) The word is written by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I believe that today you have injured Article 103 relating to Article 107. Namely, in Article 103, point 1 clearly states, and you are only half of the exposure when advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, you remember that the MP can advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure which was done during the session and that day, meaning, during this session, and the speaker has evoked memories, talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure outside the sitting, although he considers himself to be a very well-known member of the Rules of Procedure, and he also spoke about the violations of the Rules of Procedures which were done backwards. If that's what they'd allow, then I could also advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the former council, why the same MP played video games.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23600	I ask you not to do so, so that you do not enter into the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or that I do not enter into a new breach of the Rules of Procedure by allowing you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23601	I say you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. If we keep it that way, then I could advertise why he played cards in video games in the last session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23602	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23603	Okay, I'll keep going. Also, I warn you of article 107, where the speaker is mentioned after his presentation, and now I ask that the recording be established between 11.25 and 11.34 hours, re-used that famous finger of his. So, if he doesn't understand, the video last time is seen, in transmissions, in the archives, to parliament.rs is visible under the code 0204, it's two hours and four minutes, how he used his finger at the last session. Now he's using it again. I don't know who he showed it to, if he showed it to his colleague again, if he showed it to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23604	Time. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23605	Article 27. Rules of Procedure, and as regards the interpretation of Article 167. Mr Stefanovic, article 167 says – by emergency procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23606	You can't ask that question again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23607	But you've given us a new interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23608	No, I gave the answer. You have the right to be dissatisfied with the answer, and the congregation will declare it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23609	Then another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23611	Injury of Article 27. Rules of Procedure. So, you said there was no point in the agenda of the Higher Education Act because you wanted with the Minister to ensure his presence. I'm sorry, that's not a business reason. If it were, we wouldn't have a session today, because then Mr. Mirovic wouldn't be able to represent the Government under the Law on Public Property, but Mr. Krstic, who was authorised by this law yesterday. I'm just asking you to be consistent when you explain your reasons and your struggle for making a more normal debate in this House. Then this session is gone today, so let Mr. Krstic come. I believe that the "Quantite Jump" set is important in the unknown, but I think it is also important to discuss it in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23612	Mr Igor Mirovic has been duly authorised by the government to represent this law and will do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at today's session. You've received a bill from the government. You've received the Board's reports. Before the principled search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. You got the details in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Igor Mirovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23613	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, very briefly, are more to the public, because it is only one member of the Public Property Act that is being amended. I am obliged to explain on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia the reasons that motivated the government to propose amendments to the Law on Public Property. Article 82(3) The Law on Public Property, which was passed in 2011, lays down a period of two years from the date of entry into force of this law, in which public undertakings, capital companies and their subsidiaries may apply for the registration of the rights of the property of those undertakings, i.e. companies on immovable property on which they have rights of use. Considering that the deadline laid down in Article 82(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Public Property expires on 6 October 2013, that this deadline is transitional, as well as the fact that a large number of public undertakings have not applied for the registration of property rights in the public record of immovableities and rights on them, it is necessary to extend this time-limit in a timely manner. In this regard, the Government also proposed a law amending the law, which replaces Article 82, paragraph 3, "two years" with the words "three years". Why has the Government decided to propose an emergency procedure? Because an objectively large number of enterprises, capital companies and their dependent companies on state-owned immovableities, on which he had the possibility, but obviously not the full capacity to enroll in the right to use, did not do so within this time limit. It is very important to allow extensions of the deadline within which their commitment would be realised. I suggest that in the debate, possibly with answers and further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23614	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23615	Dear President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the LDP parliamentary group will not vote for the adoption of this law and our reasons are, above all, essential. We talked at the beginning of this session about what the procedural reasons were, which was so much trouble, which is why this session looks like what it looks like, which is why the Assembly hasn't worked full moon, all of September, waiting for it to start in a normal way to start an important, regular, big autumn session, and then we have two interruptions of the same session. It's also connected to this law, Mr. Mirovic. The fact that this is how this law is written, that it is offered to the Assembly, that in the meantime the new bill changes, that you are now coming to the Assembly with practically one type of blackmail. Either this law will be passed by Sunday, or some people will permanently lose some possibility or the right of the Public Property Act, even if it points to me and LDP that there is actually none of that quantum leap, let me say that again, from the new atmosphere, the new seriousness. I don't know how you think, for example. This session has been interrupted, among other things, by the debate on the law on legalisation, which will be continued by who knows when and who knows when this law will be passed, by people, by ordinary citizens to enter into some legal procedure to regulate their relations, to settle their obligations to the state, while at the same time proposing to this Parliament a law that you actually want to reward incompetent enterprises, primarily incompetent public and state-owned enterprises with little two years of time to meet the basic conditions, to show an elemental interest in the property they own, or to use as their own. You're coming to parliament today and you're asking us to extend their deadline for another year. I expected more arguments from you in your opening statement. I don't mind you very much, because you're not the Minister of Resort for this. This was to be discussed, first of all, by Mr Krstic, and for this reason we are so surprised that you have once again denied us the opportunity to finally talk to Mr Krstic about this law, which has only one amendment, or one member, but which actually shows how much there is no willingness to reform the key generator of all problems, especially in the economic sphere in this country, which is the public sector. The Liberal Democratic Party thinks that one who has not shown any interest in two years from now and has not filed a request under the Law on Public Property should permanently lose the right to be registered as owner, as it is expected from citizens in their relations with the state, or in the exercise of some rights. Another thing, Mr. Mirovic, I ask you to tell before this House which companies have not submitted the demands that are being made here? What public enterprises do you extend from two years to three years? In light of the law, the government says, you voted as the minister of this government law, that most economic operators did not submit that request. I ask you to be much more specific, because these are enterprises that actually pay the citizens of this country. Many of them are monopolies. Almost all the party directors were appointed. Tell us which director of the public enterprise didn't arrive in two years to apply for the registration of property rights? I suppose Mr. Cvian may know who it is. If it helps you now, Mr. Mirovic, then I won't mind having a discussion with the Assembly, but I seriously ask you to tell them what companies they are, so let's assess whether they should be given another year, or not give them another year. Or, if you give them another year, will the directors, or the management, suffer any consequences? For example, will the body you set up within your own party, which will, for example, replace the directors, even though it is, I must observe against the law, take into account that these people have not fulfilled their elemental obligation. I think that when the director of a company doesn't apply for the registration of property rights used by that company on the basis of the right to use, it's not just a reason for the transfer of directors. I think that's the reason for the criminal prosecution of the director. This caused damage to the firm, which I suppose runs on behalf of Serbian citizens, on behalf of taxpayers, on behalf of those who finance the companies. Third question, Mr. Mirovic, why did you submit on Monday the bill of the same one where you asked for the deadline to be extended by six months to two and a half years, and then you decided on Thursday morning to submit the second bill and to extend the deadline to three years? Do you have any analysis in the meantime? Who can't make it in six months to file these demands? Do you, for example? The director of Railways or the director, for example, has these problems. PTT Mail of Serbia? Is it, for example? In the mail of 98 members of the company's management, as many as she has, she hasn't arrived in two years to file or maybe she has? They may have fulfilled all that was expected of them, but you did not bring it to Mr. Mirovic in light of these laws. You cannot come to parliament, to seek an extension of such a serious matter, a serious deadline for a year without it being based on a cold, lapidary sentence – given that this deadline is too cross and the fact that a very large number of these companies have not filed a request. How many companies? Which one? What kind of property is this? What would the consequences be? You know what? I don't care what the deadline is. It's a rock and it's supposed to be crossed. That's why there's too many pre-inclusive deadlines that when they expire if someone does nothing to permanently lose some right and that's why it's called a pre-exclusive deadline. You can, of course, suspend that deadline by changing the law each time, but in this congregation, we have been going through similar situations in some past times. We've told a thousand times to a previous government -- don't move that passport replacement deadline every year for a year, to humiliate ourselves, to have our 2009 laws changed by 2010 and so on. Let's see how long it takes to change the deadline right now. Is it six months or 12 months, or is it not necessary to extend the deadline at all, Mr. Mirovic? Why is that so hard? If I were you, I would take advantage of the opportunity to score and point to those who have so rudely ignored the interests of both the Republic of Serbia and its parts, the companies they run or whose name they operate. You know what the problem is, Mr. Mirovic? Which lasted 24 months or two years. He stands out on Sunday, and since the election of last government's alleged constitution of a new policy, the alleged seduction of order in the public sector has been more than 14 months. So, the people you named there or the people you tolerate there didn't do what was their legal obligation. If you had implemented the Law on Public Enterprises as it states in it so that all the competitions were conducted by June 30th, and that by the beginning of August at the latest, which was a reasonable deadline for selecting new directors, then these more capable, brilliant experts might have had time to submit these requests from the beginning of August to early October. However, public companies directors have not yet been elected in Serbia. Would you mind telling me that this deadline has been missed by some of the bad disaster directors who were appointed by the previous government? Why are these people still in those places, Mr. Mirovic, when you are 14 years old, far away, 14 months have absolute authority in this country? When did you think of the deadline of October 6th? When did you think of that? Maybe September 30th. I think that people who work in different sectors of the ministry were very careful when the deadline would pass, and I guess for months they've been trying to convince anyone in that government that something should be done, but you spent all spring and summer in the reconstruction of the government. Another minister a few days ago was talking about the Law on Legalisation, Mr Ilic said his law was ready, but it was a summer break so parliament didn't work. That's not true. We've all been here all September and we've been ready to work. For not having occupied the assembly, it is you from the government who did not propose the laws in the extraordinary session because you could be practically the caller of the session, Parliament Speaker Nebojsa Stefanovic, who is the vice president of your party and parliamentary majority. That's the only reason this law wasn't passed a month ago. Now the whole country wouldn't shake if this session was going to end by 6:00 p.m., whether you'd be able to print "The Official Messenger", which will, of course, come out on October 6th. It will bear the symbolic date, which has never appeared in Serbia. This is proof that he has never performed, that there is no willingness in this government to change the basic methods of action. He's in a hurry, so the session scheduled for 10.00 starts at 11.30. When the company director sees it, so why would he try to change something in his way of working, in the organization of his firm? Why would 16 directors, other than the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General of PTT, do anything and consider doing anything? How will this law affect? How will he treat some other, very serious things? You know, Mr. Mirovic, that you have public enterprises that practically make profits exclusively on the fact that they have contracts with some other public or state-owned enterprises, which are related to assets, let's say, on the lease of a business space. Why would they, under these circumstances, not have to be interested, fight for some other property? What do you think if he is sold "Telecom" tomorrow, will he, under the same conditions, want to buy space from this particular public company and practically keep it in the plus, i.e. to allow him to increase profits of 300 or 400%? You'll have six months, or in a year you'll actually be completely naked with what's obvious today, and what's kind of covered up with inherited relations where a country through one sector is doing a favor to another sector and everything through papers and bookkeeping reports looks much better than it is. I don't believe, Mr. Mirovic, that order can be fooled by someone in this government, anyone, regardless of his power, will be able to learn or discover any attempt, I don't know, to transfer 150 employees from one company or public institution to an agency, etc. How can that system work? What Adenauer would say - don't mix energy and power. That's two different things. So power is law, power is institutions, power is order. Once again, please, I will leave a part of my time for the very end of this debate, given that I expect answers from you on some of the questions I have asked. A very precise list of those who failed to meet this request, a very precise list of directors, managements that were not even fundamentally interested in accomplishing what is in their interest and their right, a very precise list of sanctions, Mr. Mirovic, for those who have so harshly violated the public interest. I ask you for an explanation of what the government itself has done, if possible, such a big mess, which is why it has changed the law during this week, which is why the deadline has been extended, what are the elements and on which basis do you guarantee that this three-year deadline will finally be satisfied? Once again, the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democratic Party has not submitted amendments to this law, although we think it is bad, although we are opposed to it this way. We are aware that you would not accept these amendments and that the law would be passed. We didn't want this congregation to work for another day, to work on Sunday after all the chaos you've made. To be clear, I don't think those who may have submitted amendments are responsible, it's their right and they have the right to make that decision. Because the assembly did not work yesterday, and what it will do tomorrow or Sunday, the Serbian government is solely responsible, as the speaker and parliament speaker Nebojsa Stefanovic, who has in a disastrous way organised the start of this regular autumn session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23616	The word has Minister Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23617	Mr. Đurić, I will try to be extremely specific, although you have said a lot of findings and questions that are not particularly related to the draft of this law and concern in one part of the business and business issues of the companies themselves or the staff policy that is being conducted in them. You are in one, but only in one, right when it comes to the separation of those public enterprises that have fulfilled this obligation from those who have not done so. Unfortunately, although this is a good idea and a good proposal, this law, which was passed in 2011, does not prescribe such a possibility and in some way, although it gives both the obligation and the possibility for public enterprises to sign up as holders of property rights over certain immovable property, does not allow this kind of separation of those who did so and who thus made it easier for themselves to do business and to arrange that record, from those who did not. Secondly, you saw why the deadline was moved from six months to a year. It is precisely because of the government's assessment that six months is not enough to allow public enterprises, not only those who are bound and whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, but also public enterprises, whose founder of the AP Vojvodina, and also numerous units of local self-government, to make that deadline, therefore, possible deadline, the initial period of 6 months is not enough and the government has defined itself for an extension of a period of one year, which, according to us, is more justified, more comprehensive, longer and simply more appropriate to this extensive business, since it is a large number of public enterprises, which have that possibility. What would happen, that law foresees, if the bill was not eventually passed, and if the deadline we're talking about was not extended? All property would be registered as the public property of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, or the unit of local self-government, and these would be quite complicated in the property-legal sense. The possibility that really public enterprises, first of all, from the aspect of their business, are registered as property rights holders of these properties is something that we simply have to motivate with the amendment and addition of this law, even though it does not exist, and here I agree with you, no sanctions, nor is any law prescribed any record of it. Why is that? I think that's mostly because it would be difficult and come up with some kind of, uh, rough call, criminal policies in that sense. Simply, this is the possibility and the right that should interfere with both local self-government and local government, and at the level of the AP Vojvodina, and at the level of, I speak, for management mechanisms in public enterprises, to clean up their property balances, to simply establish them and make it easier to operate in the sector. I think I've answered all your specific questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23618	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23619	I disagree, Mr. Mirovic. First of all, it doesn't matter if the public property law itself requires sanctions. You have a law on public enterprises that prescribes a very clear set of sanctions for such failures. This should get into those reports that public enterprises are required to deliver, I'm talking about republican public enterprises, the government as their founder. This is what your colleague Minister Radulovic is telling you about, who has not received a single complete ID card from 35 public companies, including the so-called ID card with basic data on them and their business. I think there's a basis for sanctions. That's one thing. The other thing is, if you'd changed some of those directors, if you'd had spent the rest of the public competition, some of them wouldn't have missed the deadline. There's no obstacle. You can't tell me the law forbids you to tell me which companies missed the deadline. Finally, there are sanctions. There are, say, criminal laws in this country. Failure to do something about the authority you have in the economy, as a manager, and when damage occurs, and when a pre-exclusive deadline is missed, there is damage, sorry and a criminal act, Mr. Mirovic. All you need to do is decide what you want and what crime is in this country. This property is worth hundreds of millions or billions and there's no harm done. It is true that it would be complicated to then translate the property into a country or other forms of state. So, on some forms of public property, but I think it's great for the state. You can't pass the law you say – we have to motivate someone to sign up as the owner. Excuse me. Is that true of private business? Here, motivate a private economy, extend their time for three years to pay taxes so little to motivate them. Can't the rule of law and the legal order rest on such ambition, and especially when you're not ready to say, give a few examples of public enterprises that didn't do it. Did you ask them why they didn't? When can they do it? How did they get to do everything else?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23620	Time, Mr. Guric. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23621	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I defended this law two years ago in this House, and most of it was adopted by this Assembly, for the reason that this law allowed, above the economic effects that are expected of it, and a certain political step. Let's remind ourselves. Real decentralisation implies that other levels of government also have their own assets and their financial resources. If they don't have it, then the story of decentralisation is an empty story. But what we adopted here two years ago and then the National Assembly said it had to be carried out in action, it's now that it finally knows what belongs to who in our country. On the same day, the Law on Public Property and the Law on Restitution were adopted, and this Law on Public Property is not only there to regulate which state property belongs to which level of government, republic, province, local self-government, but it was finally needed to know which property was needed by which public enterprise or public utility and that this property was entered, so that the public or public utility was able to use it, to give it as collateral and be able to operate, possibly through that property for everything it needed, does not burden local, regional or state budgets through certain forms of guarantees, but rather to be responsible for its business with that newspaper, but at the same time to examine and verify whether those assets which public utility they use are necessary. What have we been saying since the fifties of the last century? We find that the activity of these public utility companies is constantly expanding. We find that they have an increasing amount of property and we find that the state property is therefore not optimally used. That is why it has been given for two years, that these public utility companies should present to their founders, which is the assembly of the municipality of the city, the province, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the founder of public enterprises at our national level, an extensive list and say – this is what we need for this purpose, and all of this is not needed, and that we have a strong dialogue that is expected between the public public utility and the founder, which is then to say – we agree with it, or, more likely in our circumstances – we disagree that you will also keep that part of the property, because that property, e.g. The many tourist agencies, the medical services that some of our public enterprises have, are not an element of your activity, and we transfer that property to that level of state authority to which it belongs, whether it's health care, whether it's some other part of the state, or if we have better ideas, possible privatisation, possibly a way to pawn that property for some more useful conditions, and therefore the Public Property Act is there to enable the state property to be optimised and put where it belongs. That's what I wanted to remind the DS here on behalf of the very broad majority who supported this law two years ago. What did we hear on the board today? First of all, I'm sorry that whoever's supposed to be carrying this law, which is the finance minister, has found a way not to come into this home again. So, if anyone sees today, these days Lazar Krstic, ask him to come to the National Assembly and finally choose to perform his duties as finance minister. It's not enough to pull out the tickets in Zajecar and give the blenders. That's not exactly what a finance minister should do. It should be here and he should explain it to us, because it is his legal authority, not that the Minister of Regional Development comes, with all due respect, because today's provision that changes is not about local self-government, it concerns public enterprises. That's where we see the chaos that exists in this government. There's chaos and ingenuity. This law, which defends the Ministry of Finance, only the Minister of Business talks about public enterprises and talks about some ID cards that are not legal categories. That, people, respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, does not exist. The ID card only has citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and public enterprises have laws that regulate their performance, especially this law, and if we want to know the truth and manage the system and the state, we have to go through these systemic changes. Today she's a representative of the Ministry of Finance, I thanked her for that, told the truth. To my question – why are you asking for an extension, she said – Mr. Djelic, because we did nothing. That's true. The previous minister has done nothing, and this government has done nothing for 14 months to implement this law, so no quantum conference will help much, no pictures with various, no contracts. The system needs to be arranged. It is much harder, but it is the only way for Serbia to move forward. That's why DS won't support this bill. That is why we have proposed one number of amendments, because we want each of them to bear their share of responsibility. And it's not true, Mr. Minister, that you need any legal provision or some basis to say who has fulfilled and who has failed to fulfil this obligation, because if the public enterprises, everything they do has to be public and the registration is in public registers, so if it can't and shouldn't be public, I don't know what it has to be. Looks like most people see it the other way around. Instead of explaining who failed to meet the legal basis here, and who and when to fulfill, in what format, today's SNS Executive Board discusses the directors of public enterprises by breaking the law, because the Law on Public Enterprises has made it clear that those who are directors of public enterprises cannot be party pensioners. Then what are you discussing? This meeting is illegal, debated in an illegal manner about what is happening in public enterprises and makes it very clear, eclatatively, I would say, that there is absolutely nothing from the department and that this division is not only in public enterprises, but those who strike at the GAC National Front see that more and more instructions for the appointment of any authority in this country must be approved by one man. That's our reality. I have to tell you, this way you're looking for an extension doesn't give you any confidence. What is this government that decides within three days to multiply by the two deadlines it needs? Which are brilliant analyses that you were initially told to propose to this assembly on September 30th an extension of six months, and three days later, which are even more eclectic and better analyses that you were told would take another year. If you do not know in three days how long it takes you, what is the trust we can have in you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that you will be able to carry out this task now within the proposed period of one year? Nothing at all, for the reasons that those other acts that have to be adopted were prepared, for the reason that there is nothing from the department, for the reasons that inside the government is not clearly defined, and instead of being dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, such as under the Law on Government and this law, the Ministry of Finance, and that is why the lady who is from the property sector of the Ministry of Finance. And we see yesterday or we switch that it deals only with the Minister of Economy. With what ingenuity? With what resources? Where's the director supposed to go? Who's he supposed to answer to? What's your plan? Will we have at least one of these decisions by the end of the year? These decisions are of the utmost importance. It is not important at all which property at the end of the Serbian Railways will be approved by the government of the Republic of Serbia, because the railways use huge assets far from its key function of transporting people and goods. So, during socialism, no one saw it, people adopted some acts, and it all seemed like some kind of social property, but times change under these difficult financial and economic circumstances, one thing is certain, and that's that state property has to be optimally exploited. One more thing. The fact that you don't respect the deadlines of this law raises another law, and that's the Restitution Act. Those who have asked for their property to return to them for decades rightly asked for nothing to happen to them that would make it impossible to regain their property and that is why we adopted both laws in one day. Of course, the idea was not to assign anything to a public company before it was made sure it was returned. Well, you can say -- since the deadlines are slipping, that's better for restitution. But that's not good because there are other deadlines in the Restitution Act that you're not aware of at all. It's that there's only a few months left to report property that wants to be returned by March next year. Then there is an even shorter deadline by the end of next year when the finance minister, once again, when he is not in Zajecar, to pull out tickets and share some blenders, had to make an extremely important decision in the government and propose it, which is to know what will come back in nature and what the amount of assets will come back in financial terms. As long as we don't know what's going on in public property, it's hard to know what's going to happen in the area of restitution. Let it be another illustration of this government's failure to find. Let this be another illustration of your lack of capacity to run complex systems. It's not enough just to say – it's someone's fault before. You've had 14 months to carry this out and, as the Ministry of Finance said, you've done nothing. Because of our experience, we don't trust you to lead this on your own, I am very grateful to the colleagues of the Finance Committee who adopted our proposal, which is that on every quarter, now I don't know who in the government, whether it will be the Minister of Finance, Business or who it will be, comes before the Committee and our nation as far as it came in this domain. The performance of public enterprises, that's what they talk about all the time. This law, since I was the bearer of its adoption, can testify that it is extremely difficult to do so, because you have to reconcile several very valid interests – the state's interest to have one system and to know which way it is managed, that there is one central authority that will keep an eye on the fact that some specific circumstances do not lead to abuse and that someone newly assigned, by law, does not advocate state property, that it does not go away for a reason. There are no control mechanisms in this law adopted two years ago. There is, of course, the interest of local self-government and the province to own their property. And even more importantly, because that's what our citizens face every day, that public utility companies, in Serbian -- people who clean, people who deal with garbage, people who make sure you heat up, people who ensure that normal transport exists, it's important that they know what they have. It is important that we also know to break any form, demagogy about whether EPS, Railway, whether "Post" or any other public enterprise is effective. This is the law, and that's why we were so pleased when it was adopted, it seems to me all together, which opens that Pandora's box, with the idea that he is in one transparent way, through decisions, where not only the majority is present, because the decision on what belongs to a public utility or public enterprise is not the decision made by the mayor, it's not the decision made by the minister, it's the decisions made by collective bodies, the assembly of the municipality, so there are those who are members of the opposition and this prolonging of this deadline...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23622	Mr. Djelic, please, you've been discussing a law that's not on the agenda all along.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23623	I'm sorry, if it's hard for you to listen to me on an extremely important subject, it seems to me that the citizens of Serbia are doing this and that they are interested, General. You mustn't interrupt me this way, with all due respect. I'm only talking about the Public Property Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23624	Public property is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23625	What's on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23626	Please, Article 1 that says that the law extends time from two years to three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23627	What law, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23628	Only a period of extension on the amendment of the Law on Public Property.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23629	What's the name of the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23631	Okay. Thank you. I am pleased that we have established that the Law on Public Property is on the agenda, since it seems to me that the way you run this Assembly shows that we have come to a situation that we no longer know what is on the agenda. The Public Property Act is on the agenda and a two-year deadline is required for an extremely important element concerning public enterprises. I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23632	Mr. Djelic, please, I know exactly what's on the agenda and don't insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23633	I haven't offended you for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23634	Yeah, you said I didn't know what was on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23635	No, I asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23636	Listen to me, I'll make up for the time you still have at your disposal to be parliamentary. I think you've really crossed the agenda. I know the law is very interesting, but objectively speaking, the content of the law isn't on the agenda, it's just his change. I've tolerated your exposure in that sense, but I'm also obliged to at least warn you, if nothing else, and you continue your story. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23637	Mr. Chairman, since what you say is important, I apologize, I didn't want to offend you for one moment. When I said you didn't know, I was talking about the ruling majority who voted on the agenda, not you personally. What I'm trying to say is that we can't come to a discussion here on whether it took six months, a year or two, but we need to talk about the consequences of the proposed law. I'm sorry, the consequence is he's putting some misunderstandings and risks into the restitution process. If anyone has a different argument, go ahead. The effect is to waste time writing down public enterprises' assets, which makes it impossible for public enterprises to operate in one efficient way. Because if they were able to type in that property, they would be able to do business by being able to pawn their assets, not by looking for a guarantee from their founder. It seems to me, given that the government has said that public debt will reach 65% of GDP, that it is extremely important to find mechanisms for what is needed for the business of public service, the public sector, that they can use their assets and not burden everyone's budgets. It seems legitimate to me, as it is legitimate to say, that because of the prolonging of states, provinces, cities and local self-government have not entered this dialogue that will ensure that the property is actually needed by public and public utility companies. All of this is true and related to this deadline, and the consequence of the shift is that one part of the property that represents both the land, which represents both movable things and many other things that are now far from what is the core of the functioning of these public and public utility companies will remain in their scope needlessly. So, I'm saying, on behalf of the DS, this deadline wasn't an accident. When we proposed the law, it was after a careful discussion with both founders and public and public utility companies, it was not then proposed, as often happens in our parliament and in our governments, six months, three months, and then we realize that it has not been done, but they have been proposed for two years. Two years, that's two budgets. Two years, that's enough time for someone to go through the maze of our regulations. It is enough to schedule sessions and, which is very important, in the discussion between founders and public and public utility companies to come to what is the essence of things, which is to put things in the place that belongs to them, to say: "Post" really needs that exposure. Show us how much activity there is in someone else. Is it rational to have those two exposures so close to each other? The question of Railways should be asked – should you really need to have the most modern scanner in this country? Wouldn't it be more appropriate to make the extremely expensive equipment available to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only those who are users of the health services "Learn". To ask the EPS question – do you really have to be a tourist agency? Aren't there any other tourist agencies that can serve your employees? It's this dialogue that's not over and it could have been over. Because it wasn't working and what we don't see now is who's going to work, it's important, I expect, without DS because we won't vote for this law and talking about the amendments, according to some deadlines that we find more appropriate, that it's absolutely on the board, and hopefully even at the plenary session by the end of the year we see how far we've come around the application of this law, perhaps modified and the Restitution Act. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23638	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23639	Mr. Chairman, you have violated Rule 106. I think you should have insisted on warning or taking away words or warning to get back on the subject, the real subject of the previous speaker because there was much to be said here, and at least about amending the Law on Public Property. I believe and would support this and this speech at least when it comes to public enterprises and staffing in public enterprises, if this speech were not addressed to the National Assembly but to the main committee of its party, the truth would then risk restoring the mandate or moving to one of the last benches, but what counts in the previous speech, which is a brief understanding of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and a brief understanding of us Members of Parliament. I'd be happy to ask you a question... (President: Mr. Granny, please, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm trying to prove to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23640	Okay, please, don't violate me, or you're putting me in a position to break the Rules of Procedure because I'm allowing you to do the replica. You were entitled to a replica, you could answer the line as an authorised representative, I know he mentioned your party. Therefore, you end up in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and if you need a replica, then please report.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23641	I'll take the line. So, there was talk of all other laws, and at least of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Property, and the criticisms addressed were more of an ash spilling than was a criticism to the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23642	Thank you. I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have the right and we can plead in the voting day. Okay, you don't want to. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23643	I believe that the injured member is Article 106(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as the speaker may be interrupted only in the cases provided for by the Rules of Procedure. I think it is done in a way that is not intended for the Rules of Procedure especially if the speaker speaks about the content, practically, the reasonings of the bill, and in Article 151. Rules of Procedure and Rule 59. The unique methodological rules for the making of rules are defined what all should contain an explanation including an analysis of the effects of the regulations. We have an analysis of the effects of the regulations and of the law that was three days in the procedure and in the new law that is now in the procedure where there is no difference, and it is a different deadline. That is why a whole series of MPs have submitted amendments because you have not given, or have not given, the reasons that should have been given, so an analysis of the effects of the regulation on what happens at three months, six months, at one year, at five years. In that sense, I don't think the speaker should have been interrupted if he was trying to explain it. I'm telling you, every single one of us will be in a situation when it comes to asking for an answer to that question and how it can be asked of anyone to withdraw a possible amendment unless they have to give arguments as to why it should be a certain deadline, and coming into a situation where an authorised representative of the largest opposition party takes away a word in a situation where he has to speak, I think it's at the border, I won't talk any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23644	Mr. Mikovic, you've made an inaccuracies. I didn't take the speaker's word away. You said I took it. Then take care of what you say. It's not the same thing to break up and take away the word. I didn't even interrupt the speaker, I just asked him to listen to me and move on. It is your right to appreciate whether or not there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure, it is my right to also monitor whether the speaker is speaking in accordance with the agenda. You cannot tell me that Mr Djelic's exposure was in line with the agenda starting from a meeting of the SNS' main board to the work of the ministers of one, the other, the third. Excuse me, that's certainly not in line with the agenda. Therefore, all in all, I was tolerated but I asked and I allowed Mr. Djelic to complete, therefore, I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you think there was any injury, you can ask us to plead. All right, you don't want to. Since no one has any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the word first has a minister and a replica. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23645	He would agree with the vice president in one piece although it is a parliamentary matter that Mr Djelic, in his presentation, actually described some kind of political war and peace. In a broader political sense, he referred to the work of public enterprises and the general political opportunities of which of course I can leverage but I would still like to return you to the very essence, and this is about changing one member of the law which extends the deadline within which we foresee the possibility for public enterprises and for the companies of capital and their subsidiaries to enroll, to apply for registration of property rights. I don't think an excessive debate will contribute to the essence we want to achieve in this case. Mr Djelic asked – how we set this additional deadline for a year in which we are looking for the possibility of this job being realised and he criticised that deadline and asked for it, quoteing it – which brilliant analysis set that deadline for a year. I have a conflicting question – which has set a brilliant two-year-old analysis in a situation of very poor inherited relations in public enterprises. It is true that Mr Djelic said that there are very bad relations in many public enterprises in terms of the functioning of public enterprises, in terms of the debts they are overloaded, in terms of the unrealisation of large investment businesses and in other sectors of their functioning. But whether all these problems in public enterprises that are only in indirect connection with the elements we are talking about today and in general with the Public Property Act have arisen in the past six months or a year, or whether the product is a completely wrong concept of the management of public enterprises in the past years, and also in the past decades, and for which responsibility someone else, rather than the political leadership of this government and the parties that are today made up of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should certainly bear. Mr. Djelic said a very dangerous one, I would say, a hunch because above all it is a consequence of ignorance. He linked the Law on Restitution and any damage that supplementing, or amendment to this law today, could cause this process. Although it is quite clear that the process of restitution is going its course, regardless of whose property it is when we talk about dissipating the entire assets. So, is it the property of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, a unit of local self-government, a public enterprise or any other legal entity? Those citizens, who are led in the process before the Agency for Restitution and who simply get a solution on the return of property, have the right to implement this solution regardless of who the property is run or who is the holder of that property. Therefore, what Mr Djelic said is absolutely not true. Mr Djelic also spoke about issues of the internal organisation of a large number of public enterprises. Yes, we have come into play with this and the Minister of Economy, whom Mr Djelic has now cited as someone who is looking for "personal maps of public enterprises", has an obligation to propose in the majority part of the model of reorganisation not only of public enterprises, but of the whole public sector, and this is being discussed in the government, and the next week you will have the first information about this entire reform segment that should be touched by this area. It is certain that the issues of missing certain segments in the restructuring of public enterprises will be raised. I'll remind you that JAT had a 300 million dollar offer in time from Russian partners to create a new company. That chance was missed five or six years ago. Meanwhile, such a huge loss has been made in JAT, and with success today, the government can be praised by a partner who restructures this public company with a new company, with ER Serbia. I would remind you that in the winter of 2008, the Republic of Serbia received a $800m loan from the Russian Federation for restructuring, in fact for large investment in rail transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia from 2008 to 2013, i.e. until the appointment of a new government and new leadership in Željnica – no single element of the realisation of the loan was on the table as it is today. This is how I can talk about almost all public enterprises and point to the gaps that the former government has made when it comes to their organisation, the degree of profitability, their internal structure, the concept of governance, but this is a whole other topic, and I think I would look like Mr. Djelic if we went too far to discuss a very simple member that we want to change and allow for the distinction of property and finally the identification of segments in the property map of all public enterprises and their subsidiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23646	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23647	I think he's hurt. 106th and 107th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you did not draw attention to Mr. Minister to stick to the agenda. It is not a matter of the minister agreeing or disagreeing with the chairman of the Assembly in assessing what the speaker was saying. He can answer the question, he can talk about the subject of the agenda, and the subject is – the draft law amending the Law on Public Property. It's a theme, and as long as it's talked about, no one gets out of it. But giving values and a court or comment or agreeing and not agreeing with those in the executive authority to enforce the law, that's one thing. I would understand if Mr. Minister had said – over the past two years we have controlled or not controlled it and we have done so, but, to give a valuable court to a man who has made a great effort to, in a short period of time, note that the MP groups DS Bill received the bill at 18.05 hours, I was when they brought envelopes with material, and the situation is such... (President: Mr. Mikovic, please, have you advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure? What does getting the law in 18.05 have to do with the agenda? That's precisely why I'd like to explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23648	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23649	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, "War and Peace" is a major and serious literary work. The previous presentation of Mr Djelic was more like a tragic genre, and I would like to remind you of one of the works Dostoyevsky wrote in 1869, which I would not have thought of. Generally, in order to talk about what Mr Djelic was talking about and respecting the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS and about partocrats, and the particulation of all segments of public enterprises, I will have to remind Mr Djelic of a closer past, but also of a past from a few years ago. The Serbian Progressive Party has responsibly accepted the exercise of power in the Republic of Serbia. In the government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of experts, non-party personalities, sits on the SNS proposal. The director of the largest JP, Mr. Culibrk, is also a non-party figure, on the SNS proposal. I believe you don't even want to see it, but what I need to remind you of is you and the citizens of Serbia, whose personnel until before, and today, actually, who rule the city of Belgrade? Are you saying that Mr. Ceran, once director of Kolubare, and now the GSP in Belgrade, is a non-party figure? Are you saying that Mr. Cvijo Babic is the director of the Belgrade Voda and the sewerage of a non-party person or vice president of the DS City Committee? Neither cafe cooks nor cleaners in public enterprises could have hired without being members of the DS. Why don't we remember that? Why do you count on the short and selective mind and memory of Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23650	The word is Hope Kolundji, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23651	Mr. Chairman, I'm calling on a member of 104 who, in the most serious way possible, has been injured because you had no basis for giving the previous speaker a word. So Article 104 very precisely defines in which cases you can give the right to a replica. Neither did anyone mention him, nor did anyone take offense to him. I understand perhaps your anxiety and pressure not to allow the opposition to say what is really a problem and understand your fear of those who may be watching you right now and whether you're doing it well enough not to let it be clear here what it's really about. This is about negligence and failure trying to get rid of it in a hurry, and that's what we're trying to point out. You claim that's not the point of the agenda. The point of the agenda is to amend and supplement the Public Property Act. So, if you can't talk about this law, about the consequences of this law that we are making today and changing deadlines, then I'm afraid that someone doesn't understand what respect is for the regulation of the Rules of Procedure that says - you need an MP to talk about the point of the agenda. You had no right to interrupt Bozidar Djelic, nor had you the right to give the replica to the previous speaker. I really ask that this discussion go in the best direction, it depends solely on you. We respect the Rules of Procedure, but please respect it and respect it whether someone is pressing you, whether you are threatened or afraid that you will not satisfy it in the best possible way by performing this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23652	Mrs. Kolundjia, I regret to you I must be a little rougher in terms of answering your question. I have no reason to be afraid of anyone here or who's pressing me. If you've done this before, and from that experience you think others are pushing, I apologize to you. I really have no reason to be afraid of anyone. None of this depends on my existence, I've finished my existence, I've come here from other intentions, so neither side, nor side, nor my party can put pressure on me. So you realize that I work here on good faith, that's the first thing. As for Mr. Babic's replica, the SNS was mentioned, and I gave Mr. Babic the right to the replica. If you haven't noticed, I'm sorry. Look at the stenogram and you'll see. You can plead in the voting day whether a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed, that is your right. Do you want to? (Hope of Kolundji: No. ) The word has Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23653	Article 27. Mr. Arsenovic, you have the right to respond to advertising the violations of the Rules of Procedure, and you have no right to argue with the MPs. This was a debate with a member of the DS in which, among other things, you put yourself above the entire parliament. What does that mean? You're not here because of existence, and others are? Do you have any receipts from this House? If you do, and you have them, like all of us, then you can't talk. But I'm telling you about another thing, the procedure. If you want to make out with the MPs, the MP's bench, like all of us, answer a word or a replica, and then you can do it. From the position of the chairman, interpreting the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can't do that, especially to transfer it to anyone who's ever put pressure on someone. It is a congregation controversy and cannot be the answer of the chairman to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23654	Mr. Gjuric, I've given my answer in accordance with the advertising of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. So there was a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. It's me, and I've given a reason not to act out of fear, and that's my right. I didn't replicate. I don't think she even meant it, but that's what she said. So I don't think she meant it. You have the right to state whether there have been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. (Bojan Đurić, from the place: No. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23655	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. You have just injured the dignity of the letter by announcing that you will be much rougher to it than to other MPs. What was that, Mr. Chairman, you mean? That you have different arches towards different MPs? Is Mrs. Kolundjia underage, a child to whom you need to be stricter, to bring her in for purpose? What did you, Mr. Chairman, mean by saying you'd be rougher to the MPs? So she's one of the 250 MPs here. I really expect you to treat everyone objectively, evenly, without underestimating any of us, even if any of those 250 MPs were female. I really expect you to have a much more serious approach in conducting a session that I think is really scheduled in a completely chaotic state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23656	Mrs. Judtia, I have great respect for Hope of Kolundji, and in that sense I have spoken. Now I apologize for that word I used. I really shouldn't have and I accept that. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23657	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for solving this unwanted situation. The intention of the DS was and was only to point to the fact that this government is absolutely incompetent and at the last moment brings a certain act that it wants to extend the deadline. We have in this sense made arguments and suggestions, we have asked why they are doing it, why they are unable to do something else and we have unfortunately received, perhaps not so much from Minister Mirovic, but we have received from colleagues across the street from insults. You have not responded, Chairman, although this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must say, to the fact that a respected colleague used the work of the great Dostoyevsky, which was written from 1863 to 1869, so it has been written for six years, and has a very significant name - Idiot. He used it in the context of Bozidar Djelic. I know you're indisposed to pressure and you know I greatly appreciate you. You weren't afraid of German bunkers, let alone advanceds, but I think you still have to react in this situation. What is a fact is that we have this law that, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, demonstrates their incompetence, shows the unwillingness to follow the course of time, to change things on time and to form a mosaic of their overall incompetence. In 14 months, they've done absolutely nothing positive. Once again I invite them to say what good it is that they have done in these same public enterprises that they mention, what is so great that they have improved and what place their sister-in-laws, uglies and friends from the party do not take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23658	Thank you for your courage, but I'm not part of the People's Liberation War. You know, I'm not that old. National MP Bozidar Djelic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23659	With some criticism that we haven't talked about it, so we're asking here, I think, legitimate questions. In five minutes to twelve, a really gruesome way in this assembly comes this bill, and the government changes within three days what it wants to move itself, and we rightly wonder what's going to happen now. You know, public enterprises, it's a complex system, but when we see these deadlines not being respected, our public needs to know that, as far as the assets and other financial elements are concerned, this government has failed to meet the legal obligation that the financial plans for 2013 are on the government's website. They're not here. We don't even have financial quarterly reports. It's a legal obligation and that law is broken. When we talk about moving this deadline, I will give one piece of information that seems to me must be of interest to all MPs and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why is it important that public enterprises get their property, but only the property they need for their activity? This thing about why they should have property for their work, that's for sure they'll talk a lot. What's important is to also say that the total debt of the top 15 public enterprises at the end of last year is that, not to be me politicizing, increased this year, I don't have that data, but we'll be looking for it for this year when it ends, 6.3 billion euros. The largest public enterprises owe 6.3 billion euros, so it is extremely useful to comply with the law and then talk to the creditors. Here's an idea, and I think it can be useful when the finance minister returns from extracting the blender, that he may consider that possibility and that with the creditors, the guarantee, which the Republic of Serbia today gives its budget, is transferred to the property that they will then be able to make. Believe me, I think it is possible in this way to save and reduce the sovereign debt of the Republic of Serbia by several hundred million euros. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23660	National MP Zoran Babic, right on line. Here you go, and please, let's finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23661	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can accept some of the objections that come in some of the arguments that were before, and what is now, that a certain precious time may be lost, but since I see that the only argument that has been respected by the SNS as the largest and most responsible party in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the deadline when this law is proposed and why it is adopted in a minute to twelve, I will only remind those who are the loudest in that the most important law parliament adopts during the year is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that until last year, i.e. the 2013 budget, eight or nine years, and Mr Djelic has often been the creator of such a budget, the budget was adopted in this assembly by a minute to 12, i.e. within a minute for some temporary financing and all the bad consequences that do not bring about the budget. What do we do with that? What do we do with that time? That was regular when we stayed here late on the night of December 30th? What about when that law didn't enter the congregation procedure when the law and the Constitution ordered it? That was fine. That was democratic. That was right, and now the only argument is why in a minute to 12, and not in 12 and a minute we're adopting a conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23662	According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23663	Mr. President, I believe he is a injured member of 104 and is a injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Namely, if Mr Djelic spoke to the government, no one can identify with the government. I could understand that the minister is answering something, not other participants in this debate in the O.R. That's the first one, and you gave the word. The other thing, it's true or partial truth and not to use a strong expression, because the fact is that...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23664	Mr. Mikovic, this cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which someone is telling the truth or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23665	It hurts the dignity of the National Assembly, the president of the Assembly knows it, and he lets it go. He must be reacting. The fact is that the last draft budget was given before, and then the day before the vote was changed, and ha ha ha, ha, ha, ha was changed. It's like it's like that. It won't be like that. Then let's talk. Somebody tell me this was given in due time. From 1800 to 10.00 in the morning we had 16 hours. The decent people sleep for at least eight hours. A lot of people are traveling to come here and we haven't had a chance to endure the amendments. Has the right to democracy been violated yes, has the Constitution been broken? The essence of democracy has been violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23666	Just to make a point. Whether someone's telling the truth or not, I can't determine it. So there's a lot being said here, and the truth and the truth, and if I had to make sure it's true, I can't and I won't. You can plead your injury to the Rules of Procedure if you want. You won't. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Bojan Đuric injures the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23667	I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, calling for the adoption of the 2013 Budget Law. I remind you that law no longer applies. The law was proposed in November, but it didn't last until April, so one rebalancing was made in July, and by the end of the year we'll have another rebalancing. There's one inaccuracy, but let's not insist on it. The budget was never adopted on December 30th. I think it's always December 29th on the last day of the regular autumn session, but let's keep it quiet. This first thing is much more important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23668	The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23669	Mr. Chairman, you've violated article 107. I think that you needed a colleague of Mikovic, in order not to be imprecise in relation to his colleague Đurić, without mentioning, in order to give the right to a replica, you had to warn, because no evidence provided that someone was telling the truth, and that falsehood was imputed. Have we received any evidence that the budgets of the Republic of Serbia have been given in the assembly procedure for the past 12 years on time, as the law says? Did we get confirmation that these budgets weren't adopted in a minute until after that deadline when the temporary funding was made? Is that where we got the evidence? Did you tell me - the 15th of November budget was adopted in 2008? It was not adopted on November 15th, although my colleague Mikovic and I were members of the assembly's assembly. I used this as an argument, not as a promotion of something bad but as an argument that the most important laws were, and the most important law of a country is the budget no matter how long it lasted and no matter how long it experienced budget rebalance, adopted in a minute until the end of time when it entered into temporary financing and that it was okay and that it was democratic. There was no one allowed to speak of it in a previous session or in previous councils, so that it would now be respected for one law extending from one year, bringing me within minutes to 12 but within 48 hours to that limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23670	Please, as I told Mr. Mikovic, the object of truth and falsehood cannot be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is the right of every MP to express his view of a problem. Whether he's telling the truth or not, that's his business. He's right about that. Please, you can't make someone talk the way you think or not. That's every MP's problem. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. If you want us to make a statement about him, right? Thank you. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23671	There has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure in this latest presentation of Mr. Babic. You didn't warn him. I will not speak of the truth, but it is offensive and it is a violation of dignity when Mr Babic says – no one in this assembly had the courage to object to the adoption of budget laws by minute to 12. That's not true. There was an opposition here at the time. Every time we spoke against such a proposal and adoption of the budget, but there is one other thing. The budget rebalancing law is the same budget law. It's a new budget. When the rules for the Budget Law to be submitted in time to the Parliament which applies to the basic law, the same must apply in some elemental sense also to the Budget Rebalancing Act. It's exactly the same. It's a new budget. Mr. Babić, the Budget Law is the most important law only if it is followed by the adoption of another law. It's the Final Account Act of the previous budget. You haven't passed the Final Account Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23672	Mr. Djuric, you have no right to speak to a Member of Parliament to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I had to interrupt you. Please take care of yourself. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23673	I have the same right as an esteemed colleague from across the street. There's no need to comment. I think it's natural for the opposition to respond if these things are said. Over three times, you gentlemen have missed the budget. Billions of you have left completely out of any projection of your government. No previous government law could pass in time because of your continuing parliamentary obstruction. You gentlemen have submitted 3,000 amendments, and you have not come to any law for a vote. Let me remind you. Since you are in a parliamentary sense walking a chronometer and do nothing else, but studying time and measuring time, what was earlier in the inability to show anything you do now or what you intend to do in the next period. I'm sure you'll continue to do that, I'm sure of it. It's just that, according to the Vice-President of the Government, the block joke won't go too well. You must finally show some results in this country and stop doing time measurements. There's no need for us to deal with measuring your time, your shirts, badges and everything else you've done, sandwiches to Hungary and everything else. Every time you talk nonsense about our previous government, as you say, we can talk about your decade of nonsense that you brought into this country. But no one in this country can benefit from that. A thousand times I appeal to you, talk about what you're doing now and what you want to do for the future of this country. Give your results that are not available, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23674	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23675	I expect Mr. Stefanovic's apology. The Serbian Progressive Party, or the Prosperity Club, has never sent 3,000 amendments to Serbia's assembly procedure, and I will prove that, because thank God, this is the Assembly, there is some data, no matter how much someone does not want to talk about them. I responsibly claim that 3,000 amendments and that kind of obstruction by the SNS have never been. I'll prove it, but then I'll expect Mr. Stefanovic to apologize. As for the reminders of the past, probably history should be abolished in elementary schools, so that nothing from the past is known and that we are not looking at the past at all. It's not called the free history of "the teacher of life", because it teaches us never to make such a mistake as it was made in the past, as you have made it. Then when the prosecution deals with the past and when we prove that there are 180 charged and confirmed indictments in the previous year, I did not experience an apology in this House, nor did Mr. Vukic, to whom such a question was referred, nor did the SNS. Eyes down, yes, but an apology doesn't. When the prosecution deals with the past, it's a political charge. So no one can deal with the past. Everything that's happened, everything that's been destroyed in this country in the past, no one can do it. I've asked you many times so far for the times that you often remind us of, and which are in the past century. (President: Time.) () What did you do if we were guilty at that time? What have you been doing for 12 years? Why didn't you process it? Why didn't you judge us? Why didn't you shoot us, after all, with the hate you're with now?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23676	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23677	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Public Property is a very important system law, and it is obvious that for its consistent implementation the necessary co-operation of all parts and levels of government starts from the highest – the state of Serbia to the local communities. The aim of the Law on Public Property is to finally determine who owns property in the state of Serbia or, more simply, what it is. The law also represents an introduction to the reorganisation of state, state administration and the introduction of a real decentralisation through the establishment of property. That's what defined the SPS that in 2011, when this law was passed, to support it. I must say that these are the arguments, the objectives and the effects of this law that define us to support today the draft law amending the Law on Public Property. The Public Property Act allows the potential and possibilities of autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, public enterprises, many levels of government through transfer of property to increase, improve, but we believe, for example. that the municipalities that are now allowed to get their assets, increase it, cannot possibly mean just an increase in wealth, but one obligation to responsibly maintain and increase that property. We expect and expect them to behave responsibly during this period, in the sense that they highlight the request for the entry of property, because it is indeed in the interest of the municipalities and all other levels of government, public enterprises, in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this public property law, above all because the procedure for obtaining public property, deadlines are detailed, detailed. I would like to say that the SPS has been talking about the deadlines that shouldn't go into the core, the essence of the law itself, and that too long deadlines can question the very effectiveness of law enforcement. We've had a few amendments ourselves, when it comes first to local self-government. For this reason, I do believe that it is, above all, absolutely clear, normal, important and mandatory to apply this law, in order to determine what is essentially your property. It is completely incomprehensible that certain institutions, public enterprises or anyone else at the moment are not motivated enough, does not express a sufficient desire for this whole process to pass and exercise its legal right. It is an objective problem for all of us. I'd like to link that up at this point and to a number of DRI findings, when it comes to the list of assets. At all levels, it's one of the biggest problems that we're constantly facing. That's why I can't really accept the arguments that it excludes the government's responsibility to function for 14 months because the provisions of this law have not been applied. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law was created in 2006 and the law in 2011. What is the previous resolution ministry, finance minister, prime minister, what has been done to create conditions, the atmosphere, to prepare all those who need to apply this law to honour these deadlines? That fact cannot be ignored, and responsibility should be sought there. And this time I appeal to all the institutions that are competent, to the control authorities and to all of us, to really create an atmosphere in Serbia in all of us that it is very important to list property and that we finally know who owns it and that it is a simple obligation for all of us. Of course it's justified and I expect him to answer questions why he is not honored by this existing deadline, which he did not respect. The justification and responsibility for this are certainly an introduction and a prerequisite in the analysis of the proposal of such a deadline, that this time-limit provided for from three years is also respected and sufficient for public undertakings, capital companies to exercise their right in the coming period, register their assets and thus raise their efficiency. I also believe, in a kind of conclusion, that the proposal to amend the Law on Public Property is a good introduction for the more efficient public sector and for a much better reform of the public sector that awaits us in the coming period, and if I were to add to that what I pointed out at the very beginning of the discussion – the objective and effect of this law that should be achieved already now and in the next period, there are sufficient reasons for the MEP to adopt and support the draft law amending the Law on Public Property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23678	The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23679	Mr. Chairman, I believe that article 107 has been broken. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament. We're in a situation where Mr. Babic can speak directly to me. If that was the reason, belonging to the Water polo Union, I was really playing water polo. If there's another reason, I'm one of those MPs who's trying to get this law five hours before we get a paper version of the law to make an effort to propose an amendment, two and a half hours before I get a call. I'm saying again that I'm proposing an addition to the agenda. In a certain way, Mr Babic asks me to provide documentation for something that exists in the Post Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23680	Mr. Mikovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23681	By speaking directly to me, and you did not respond to it, that it was broken here, for it says, "A session of the National Assembly does not allow unnecessary address of the Messenger of the people to another Messenger of the people." It was that. You wouldn't allow me a replica, then you should have reacted and said – don't speak to Mr. Mikovic. Either one or the other. He can't do either. In that sense I react and say – if you do not give me the replica, then you should have warned him. So you violated Article 107 of Rule 2 and Article 27, which defines you as taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. On the side that in this direct address Mr. Babic went far and wide and the story of the indictments, so the fact that by order BIA had been brought up as many as 89 indictments. Who's the prosecutor in...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23682	Time. Mr. Mikovic, I know you know this well that the right to replica is a discretionary right to the chairman whether he will give it to someone or not. So, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, he's done nothing to offend you, and I have to admit I haven't noticed he's called you. If it's possible that I made the pass, so I can only apologize in that sense, that I haven't heard. Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23683	Article 27. The chairman, of course, is that the decision on whether someone will receive the replica is a discretionary right of the chairman, but also one who gets the right to reply has no right to speak exactly what he wants and has no right to violate the Rules of Procedure. You didn't warn Mr. Babic when he said one very dangerous thing about which we've been spinning around for months and which is terribly dangerous for this society. So, Mr. Babic was speaking today to an opposition party that used to be the government - why didn't you accuse us, condemn or shoot us while you were in power. It can't be done by parties in power, Mr. Arsenovic. Please prevent such things from being said in this House, because they are then talking about the ambitions of those who are in power today. Goes to the police, sues the prosecution, condemns the court, not the parties in power. I expected Mr. Mirovic to also intervene in the name of the government to raise that one suspicion, which stems from what Mr. Babic was talking about, that the government was in charge of proceedings. I don't want to believe it, but from what Mr. Babic said to me, it seems to me that his ambition is for the government to do so. If Mr. Stefanovic were here, I would ask him to apologize to Mr. Babic for telling him that he was walking a chronometer, since Mr. Babic reckons he was zero in 2008, then that reference to Dostoyevsky would mean Dostoyevski wrote before the new era. However, this calculation of time began from the first year, and today it is 2013. In 2008, it was 2008, not zero when Mr. Babic began his modern count of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23684	Mr. Djuric, I didn't realize Mr. Babic like that. He said as you said - you didn't accuse us, but I believe he didn't mean individuals, but he meant a system of government that knows who's doing what and who's in charge. I don't think I'm defending him at all. He wanted to say that you had arguments you'd probably have some closed up, convicted, etc. That's the point. That's how I realized, and I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can ask us to plead. You don't want to. All right. The word has Minister Igor Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23685	I wanted to actually add a few sentences to what you said to the vice president. There is a division of power in this country, and it is true, Mr Đuric, and I think you have misunderstood Mr Babic, that there are independent and independent bodies that are conducting an investigation in one part, in the other part making appropriate judgments with facts and evidence. This enormous energy that these authorities are investing in to reveal above all the processes that have led to the collapse of the basic elements on which this country rests, especially in the part of the economy, should be an object, I may say rudely, but certainly the object of respect and regardless of which parties come to these people, who often risk their lives because it is about the abuses of great values that have long been planned and implemented and that in many segments have fully participated in the fact that the state today has difficulties and does not hide both in the realisation of the budget and in the economic sphere and in the sphere of social activities that are being upgraded to this sphere, and these people deserve praise, rewards and deserve to speak of them regardless of party devival with respect. I don't think Mr. Babic meant what you meant, but that we all have to respect and promote the independence and independence of these organs together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23686	Mr. Minister, I ask you to leave it exclusively to the chairman in the future, the right to interpret the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've allowed you to say so, but this was about the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Bojan Djuric. Please allow, in that sense, the chairman to interpret the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, I know what you mean. MP Bojan Gjuric, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23687	Replica. The minister mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23688	You have no right. National MP Srdjan Mikovic according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm warning you. I want to tell you, if you're thinking of going back to what I was talking about, and what I answered, then...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23689	Please don't threaten me in advance, because I'm scared. Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Our point today is a law that changes the Law on Public Property. It's not about organ independence. The fact is, Mr. Secretary is talking about some organs working one way and the other, organs the other. Again, on 26 August 2013, between 16.20 and 16.30 hours, it was said that a BIA was charged with organised crime. So there's no independent prosecution, there's no co-ordinate. That's what Mr. Minister was talking about, and you don't mind getting back on the agenda. Let's get back to the law. [[Disabled microphone.]] ............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23690	Mr. Mikovic, I warned you and you abused the Rules of Procedure and I give you my warning. National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23691	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, has been listening for two hours to the argument of those who were in power yesterday and those who are in power today. They accuse each other of being guilty of what didn't happen and of discussing here one member of the law that needs to be changed, or of extending the deadline for another year so that public enterprises and their dependent companies would apply for the registration of property rights, and one and the other were deeply involved and deeply guilty of what we are doing today. So, first we had our staff at the directorial posts until last September, October or when.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23692	Mr. Lapchevic, don't interpret what anyone thinks. State your position on amending and supplementing the Law. I won't tolerate it anymore. It is the right of every MP to state my position on one law. Why do you interpret their views? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23693	Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your strictness and desire to lead this House in the best possible way. If they have the right to their own opinion, I guess I have the right to my own opinion. If I have the right to my position, then let me explain that attitude, so I can in my view that I have some introduction and some work and some conclusion, like in elementary and high school when you're writing a paper. So, the reason why we are here today is that the management of public enterprises in Serbia failed to meet the obligations of the deadlines given to them by the previous Public Property Act, and these leaderships were set up by the previous furniture that was in power until September last year. New leaderships have been set up since September of last year, and each other obviously did nothing, did not do their duty under the law. In order to specifically speak to who is responsible, it would be very important for us if the minister told us which public enterprises, if he couldn't list who didn't apply for the registration of property rights, to tell us who they were? I think that list would be a lot shorter, and maybe it would come down to the fingers of one hand. I'm very interested in whether there's even a public enterprise, like, for example. "Srbigas", which the great loser has filed for the registration of property rights, so that he can take advantage of the possibility that through his property, further loans he intends to take, since clearly without them he cannot function, guarantees his property, and not every time the budget of the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed, and that all Serbian citizens must bear the consequences of these major losses. In Serbia, more than 650 local public enterprises and about 40 large public enterprises employ nearly 200,000 people. Their assets are measured by billions of euros, and their losses, unfortunately, are not much smaller. It's been two years since the Law on Public Property was passed. The obligation was for the management of public enterprises to write down the property they have and to demand that they enroll the property as their right. However, according to the data I have, e.g. For the city of Nis, out of 14 public enterprises, only two were going to do something in that direction, and the rest didn't even start. I'm sure the situation is no better in other local self-governments, and probably not in state-owned public enterprises. A logical question arises – is there a responsibility for someone not doing their job and will the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent minister take certain measures in that direction? The second question - will it be sufficient to extend the deadline now by six months originally, as presented here to us for a year? Will that be enough time and what are the guarantees that this big deal will end in that year? I'm sure at the same time this year we'll see each other again here and ask for an extension of the deadline. Because the momentum is large, and I doubt that there are capacities in businesses and property services, and the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia that can handle so many demands and end the business within the scheduled time limit. The registration of property rights would allow companies to dispose of their assets and to create their own financial policy based on these assets, to try to iron their bad business through certain commercial loans, to create their own development. However, it is obvious that it is much easier and easier to rely on the state and to seek help from the state whenever it is needed, not keeping an eye on it and acting extremely arrogantly toward its assets and what they can manage. I can't agree with any suggestions here that property rights should be entered in public enterprises and that they should use it to the extreme as a way to reduce their losses by selling. We think it would be an extremely bad move and we need to take care of everything that can be entered and everything that can be alienated and not what. You said that a large number of companies did not take action to enroll property rights, i.e. the right to use. It would be far more important for us to tell us what number it is and tell us which mechanisms will be applied by the government in the coming period to respect this deadline. Given that the deadlines have been moved for another year, all public enterprises in Serbia need first to write their property, to settle their property cards, to settle the permits for the number of objects that are mostly illegal, and only then to apply to the competent administration and obtain the right to enrol, which will certainly be a big administrative job, and given what capacity local self-government and public enterprises have, I fear that these are deadlines that are not respected, we will not be able to complete the job that is foreseen within a year. The predecessors talked about that through the scheduled deadlines, which they gave in the law of two years ago, it was necessary to do everything, but the legitimate question is whether those who were in power then until last year, with their staff in public enterprises, were actually doing so. The Democratic Party of Serbia, not even the last time this law was passed, did not write amendments, nor asked for these deadlines to be higher, but we warned that the deadline was short and that the bill itself was not realistic. We expected that we would get to this situation, that deadlines be extended, and that today we have to sit down urgently, because on Sunday, we are running out of time and then the whole law and the concept of falling, that is, companies will not have the opportunity to enroll their right of property, that is, everything will be in state property, as you said, which brings us to a big problem that we cannot clear up over a long period of time. We can't support this law either because we don't have any clear guarantees how much time we really need for it, we don't have any analysis of what number of enterprises are involved, whether or not the level of business has gone, whether all businesses have started the process and how much time they need to do it. These deadlines are given extremely indicatively and extremely casually. For these reasons, we will not support it, because we do not have enough quality data to be able to plead for or against, whether this deadline is appropriate and whether we will meet again next year here and at some emergency session to consider whether we should extend the deadline by six months, a year or already. As for other things in this law that was passed two years ago, we would not comment. We believe that public enterprises in Serbia, as great losers, must far more rationally use their resources and reduce their losses through more rational business, that those who do not do their job must bear the consequences and that there is the Government of the Republic of Serbia responsible to create a whole programme of measures that will be put forward for them, as a task, to achieve a certain business result in a certain period of time that would reduce the huge losses that are measured, as some have said here, and to a figure of 6.3 billion euros, as all public enterprises in Serbia record as a loss or as a commitment to banks. This applies only to large state-owned enterprises. No one handles the amount of losses and how much the responsibility of local public enterprises is. If that were analysed, we'd come up with really fragrant figures. I repeat once again that the deadline given here is extremely casual and we do not believe that during that period, all public enterprises, which have an obligation under this law, will be able to collect enough documentation and enter property rights. We believe that again here we will have the opportunity to discuss the extension of the deadline, because it is extremely unrealistic, and also the capacities and public enterprises and local self-government, which need to solve the problem, are not adequate or sufficient to complete the work under this law, and we, of course, will not vote to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23694	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23695	I would like to say that we will support this law, that we believe that the government has had a good assessment when it decided that the deadline should be extended, because this is indeed one large work that should be done thoroughly and properly, so that we do not come to the situation, as we did in previous years, with a rapid application of some laws, which led us to a good portion of the property being taken out of public enterprises, and later it ended up in privatisation and now the problem is judicial disputes and investigations. What made me the most of all, with the support we're going to give, is that, seeing as I can see that PTT Serbia is kind of interesting, as a public enterprise, to individual colleagues, I have to say that, as one of the few public enterprises that have been doing business with profits, has tripled profits for this period of nine months. PTT Serbia has done its job in accordance with the law. On October 2nd, we had a board of directors who confirmed that decision and all documents were submitted neatly to the Resoring Ministry of Telecommunications today. With the involvement of all the potentials that CTU had, that job was done. It is true, I also have to look back at some comments, it is true that PTT Serbia has eight people in management, but that is something that has been found, which was found by the CEO when Milan Krkobic came and did not change any of them, but these are the people who were set up in some previous periods, they belonged to different political options, but his relationship to management is in fact his view of the department. And it's also true that we have a risk sector, and I see that PTT is constantly mentioned, and so, freely, if anyone thinks they can apply, they can apply. In any case, the recommendation is more of a risk behavior in expertise. We support you and we will vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23696	The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23697	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today is October 4th, and in two days it will expire the validity of the Public Property Act. You put it on the agenda practically overnight and so you interrupted the first session and then scheduled the second session and put it on the agenda by emergency procedure. He can't do it any faster. I don't know what your intention was when you were acting like that. Perhaps that the MPs have less time to prepare, perhaps that the debate be shorter and the law itself to vote even faster. Practically, it all goes in style as well as giving an injection – as quickly as possible, it hurts less. I think it's a very important law, a law that regulates public property in this country and therefore deserves much more attention. I've been reading in the material somewhere, perhaps right in the explanation, that it's necessary to extend the period of validity of this law in a timely manner. I don't know what "good times" means, because you put on the agenda two days before the law expires. Considering the normal procedures, if all of this goes in a normal order, then it's not enough time to extend it. However, it may succeed in this way. First we got a proposal to extend the law for six months, and then it turned out it wasn't six months, but it was 12 months. I believe you've assessed how long it takes to do this. But now I don't know if it's 12 months or six months. Besides, I don't even know if it'll be 12 months. Is that it's more appropriate, to extend it immediately for a long time, so we don't meet back here in six months on the same subject, but I'm not sure we'll make it in 12 months. Many speakers blamed these public enterprises for failing to apply for public property registration. But I'm not so sure it's all their fault. I believe there are many other reasons because it has not been done, which has not been implemented. First of all, I'm looking for mistakes in this law, I'm looking for mistakes in our extended bureaucracy system, and maybe some of them haven't even given up because they didn't think they'd make it. I don't know what the reasons are, but that should be questioned, what the real reasons are. In the period from 1995 to 2011, all public assets were owned by the Republic of Serbia. This was an unprecedented measure of centralisation, and we have expected much since the adoption of this law in 2011. Why did we expect so much here? Because, first of all, those who are older, they remember that for example. After 1971, 1972, or 1974, all property on the territory of Vojvodina belonged to the AP Vojvodina. Vojvodina had its sources of funding and legislative, judicial and executive power. Let's talk about public property. At that time, all roads on the territory of Vojvodina were owned by the AP Vojvodina. She had Vojvodina's railroad that worked really well and worked well, water, forests, national parks, everything. As far as real estate and buildings are concerned, everything is on the territory of the province of Vojvodina, even some properties outside our territory. Let's see what the situation is today. From the roads, for example the highway whose construction was funded by the AP Vojvodina, we even borrowed credit for what we paid for, we can't even get it for use. The railroad, you can see the state it's in, we've talked about it many times, there's nothing more. As far as the buildings are concerned, I'm only going to point out one clear example. The Banovina building in Novi Sad, even that building is not entirely owned by the AP Vojvodina. Some parts are still owned by the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we expected a lot from the law, but long debates, blackmail were followed, and in the end, the 2011 law was voted on as a result of a rotten compromise. As the people say, when the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. The law is unfortunately so bad that it cannot be corrected by amendments. That is, among other things, the reason why we didn't hand over the amendments to that law. That's supposed to change in general. We now have a reconstructed government that has set out to solve serious and serious problems with the great Elan. We have an old - new prime minister who spoke in the exposé about significant, positive changes in this country's life. I expect there to be some good results, something that's tangible and we're patient. I'm about to say something about bad laws. This week we're in this home...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23698	Mr. Karol, please, it's not on the agenda and don't talk about it, but get to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23699	Mr. Chairman, I think I was talking about the agenda. I'm talking about this law and the amendments to a law we can't talk about without talking about the consequences without talking about how it was passed, what the reasons were. I don't know what to talk about. I'm not the first person you've warned about today. I feel like I should ask someone what I have to say, so I can read it here. It's the only thing that might work. I really don't know what to talk about or how to talk without you interrupting us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23700	Mr. Karol, I don't see at all what you're going to accomplish that you're going to criticise the law now. He's not on the agenda. What are you laughing at, Mrs. Comic? What's so funny about you? (Gordana Comic, from the post: It is his job to criticise the law. But he's not on the agenda and don't laugh. Mrs. Comic, don't throw it away, please. You are introducing a special topic of the agenda and it is in line with the Rules of Procedure, and I am responding, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the law is not on the agenda, you find it funny, Mrs. Komic. Please be careful how you behave. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23701	Mr. Chairman, I don't know how to talk about amending a law if we don't talk about the law itself. I really don't know what to say, how to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23702	It's not my place to teach you what you need to say, but there are two members on the agenda, so go ahead and tell them whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23703	Mr. Chairman, then we can talk about whether it's six months or a year, or if we're going to propose 13 months or eight months? I don't know, if we can't say anything else, that's all, then I think we came here in vain to the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23704	The word of the messenger of the people is John Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23705	I'm reporting under Article 27. Mr. Chairman, the way you interrupted the speakers who discussed the agenda, and the amendments and additions to the Public Property Act are on the agenda, is unacceptable. It's primarily because you've introduced another practice. We had a discussion from the previous speaker on the acquisition of the public company "Post", which you did not interrupt, which is not the subject of the agenda and has no contact with the Public Property Act, and you interrupted my colleague Milan Lapčević and now a colleague of Chizik, who talked about the reasons why we came here today to change this law, about the causes of public enterprises, local self-government and after the adoption of this law. You know what, if we want to interpret the Rules of Procedure like that, which has never been interpreted like that, Mr Vice President, ever, then this debate is completely unnecessary. What are we here for? What kind of MPs are we? We're talking about the Public Property Act. If you have not responded to a complete deviation from the law, you have no right to point to your colleagues in this way. I didn't answer when he was a colleague of Lapcevic's, but now I had to answer because it's an absolutely identical situation. So we have no right to talk here in the National Assembly about the Law on Public Property, and we have much to say, as well as the consequences to come. Please introduce an identical practice and just let the law be talked about. That's the point, not to tolerate discussions that have nothing to do with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23706	Mr Palalić, I have the correct name of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Property. As long as the MPs speak of the causal link between the need to extend the deadline, I accept it. But the moment the review of the existing law begins, I don't see that it's about the agenda. You can either agree or disagree. It's my right to act that way, and you can disagree. Therefore, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and you can ask us to plead in the voting day. (John Palalic, from the place: I ask that we plead. All right. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. I think the best way to get out of this situation would be to apply Article 112. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which provides that you can set a break in the work of this session, to hold a meeting, or a college of the heads of Parliament and of the Members of Parliament who are interested in this topic, in order to determine the rules by which we will discuss this item of the agenda. This is how this loses all meaning, it goes into one sense. You are always a good chairman of the National Assembly session, I have no objections, but today we have a very specific moment in the work of today’s National Assembly. Perhaps we should really set a break of an hour and agree on what rules, on which subject and what we will discuss. I have a very clear intention, precise to talk about the reasons for these changes. I have reason to believe, given how some treat MPs in this room, that we will not all be put in an equal position. Therefore, it may be best to set a break now, to lay down the rules of conduct relating to this Rules of Procedure and to agree on how we will discuss this and how important the subject on the agenda today is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23708	I don't see any reason to set the rules, and it hasn't been a practice so far, but it's a matter of the chairman to make sure the speakers stick to the agenda or not, and not now that I'm suffocating you and suggesting that you conduct the debate. This would be a new violation of the Rules of Procedure – an impact on MPs. I can't think of that. Don't get me on thin ice, that's not right. You know as well as I do that it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and you can ask us to plead in the voting day. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. (Milan Lapcevic, from the scene: I answered first. That's how I registered here. Don't be angry now who's first and who's second. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23709	Thank you. With the hope that the order is truly respected and that counterpart Milan Lapcevic is not denied the right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I call for the violation of Article 27 and that you are obliged to take care of the order at the session. This concern of order at the session includes respect for other members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly who define the ways in which MPs treat one another. Your interpretation of conduct is that as you chair the National Assembly, you have the right to ask me questions as to why I laugh, after a sentence which you refer to another MP not to be his to criticise the law. You know, that sentence has a wonderful wit in it and on that sentence, and on it, and on it, it can laugh or have a comment on any MP. But you, as chairman, have no right to ask me about my behavior during your session. In particular, you have no right to do anything else at that time but to answer politely what is funny in the sentence why the opposition MP criticises the law. I also fully understand your will to lead this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I understand the difficulties you have in doing so, but it is simply a matter of my obligation to remind you that Article 27, which implies keeping order at the session implies and applying all the other members of the Rules of Procedure who oblige us all to be polite. Whenever anyone thinks the job of an opposition MP isn't to criticise the law, I'll laugh because it's funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23710	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and I wouldn't comment any further. You can ask us to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23711	I have no intention of asking the Assembly to plead. I'm trying to help you. If we don't understand each other, that's no reason for me to give up in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23712	Since you want to help me, I'm going to answer you now, even though I thought I wouldn't. I must tell you that your behavior is such that you always comment on the behavior of others from the scene. If you don't like it, then comment loudly, if you like it, then it's okay. That's why I reacted. And all the time you've been commenting on how I'm running the session, which is why I reacted and asked you not to comment loudly and not to laugh. That was the only reason. He has the word National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23713	Mr. Chairman, I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 27, which regulates the way in which you conduct the sessions and your responsibility to apply the Rules of Procedure to all MPs the same. In the afternoon and this afternoon's debate, you allowed the talk to be made about the return of property, about the city of Belgrade, about getting mail, by 20 minutes, and it didn't bother you at all. When I talked about the reasons for the extension of the deadline and directly related to Article 1 of the amendment of this law, you interrupted me, asked questions and directed what to say. I understand your professional deformity from your profession that you've had before retirement that you want to put everything in one cliché and that we're all thinking the same thing and that we're talking about what you like to hear. But please, if you have this desire to express it in any other way than the National Assembly and to apply the Rules of Procedure to all in the future. If you've interrupted me and asked me to say what you like to hear then you've also had to work towards Mr. Djelic, and towards Mr. Babic and everyone else, especially your fellow MPs. I don't mind Mrs. Mira, I'm very fond of a person, but you know if we have the same archaic, then to all of us the same. I suppose this number of advertising by the Rules of Procedure and disdain for your leadership of the Assembly and by the position and opposition tells you something in favour of not always being you in everything right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23714	Mr. Lapčević, I just warned you about the comments, I remember very well, the commentary on the discussions of the other MPs. I have no objections, nor have I objected to your discussion of the law, he was quite correct, but you began to interpret others. I just asked you not to engage in controversy with other MPs, that was the only goal, but it is your right to consider it incorrect and in that sense I accept your suggestions. You may ask us to plead in the Rules of Procedure's injury vote. Are you looking? Yeah, okay. According to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23716	It really doesn't make sense that we're working this way, Mr. Arsenović. So, we started, okay, the minister went into the O.R. now, I'll quit, but before that there was a break of almost an hour and a half. The MPs are sitting in the O.R., the ones who are interested, there's not much of us, I don't mind if those who aren't interested aren't there, but it's really not right for the session to look like this. I agree, it is not only your responsibility, so let the President of Parliament come and have a session as scheduled by the Rules of Procedure. Article 87 says the break takes an hour. The session today began with more than an hour late. The afternoon part is late.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23717	Mr. Đuric, it's my place to apologize for being late, I'm on time, you saw for yourself, the minister had a valid reason to be a little late. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23718	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the fifth we are now in the discussion of the Law amending the Law on Public Property and Citizens who watched the transfer of this National Assembly could probably conclude during the afternoon that we are discussing or amending the Criminal Law or amending the Constitution, the responsibility of various directors has been mentioned, by the opposition in particular, some pressures on the court. We later heard about Russian classics in the field of literature, to finish the whole discussion, at least during the afternoon part of the session, with one, extremely pointless advertising of the Rules of Procedure, and one kind of obstruction. Why am I stressing that all this is pointless? Because, and that's clear to the citizens, we're talking about changing the Law on Public Property, where one member, in one position, is changing one word and that's absolutely all we really have to discuss today. That's absolutely all today's agenda is about. In order to get close to, first of all, to the citizens who are watching this transmission, which is really what this is all about, it just needs to be two years back. A previous assembly of the National Assembly has passed the Law on Public Property which, it is done, perhaps a little after application, perhaps a little in haste, but now that we draw the line, we can say it is a perfectly solid law, a law that regulates an extremely important area of social life, regulates the property of the Republic of Serbia, regulates property rights, regulates things, such as. what is in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, and water and water wells, and other, say roads, dams, streets, public parks, various rights around patents, stamps, even some intellectual property rights. So the whole set of rights that the Republic of Serbia has, the most concerned by the Property Directorate, which is also regulated by law, is regulated in the end line by certain procedures, e.g. As this property protects the public defendership, it is regulated how the property is acquired, how it is made available, how it is managed. Of course, the most important principle is the principle that property has to be managed with the attention of a good host. When two years ago, in the previous session, this law, which I repeat, is not so bad at all, the law that regulates an important area, but it has one provision, one member, one word that we are changing today, which is misjudged and misspelled at that time. It was placed -- that rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia are to be entered in the land book, within two years. So the wrong assessment in what context? In the context of two years, it wasn't enough. A misjudged even on the legal-technical side, as one pre-exclusive deadline ends on Sunday 6 October 2012. We learned in law school, how to overcome this problem, when pre-inclusive deadlines end on an unworkday, but we also taught in law school that this should not be done, that it creates certain problems, and that in practice there can be some vague situations. Today, for five hours we are wasting the time of this assembly, the money, all of this costs, some debate where, I believe, the opposition has not yet shown the citizens this basic matter, which is what a colleague, or Minister Mirovic, tried to explain, and this is a technical correction that is good for the state, where we move the deadline for enrollment within a year, on Monday 6 October 2014. This gives us the possibility that all public enterprises which, for one or more reasons, and very often justifiably, have missed deadlines, have entered appropriate rights in land books, because such registration of course leads to legal certainty, such registration leads to the fact that we know exactly what it really belongs to the state and to what extent the rights belong to the state. Of course that also leads to better protection of the property of the Republic of Serbia. About that, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and about that well-respected citizen, we were actually supposed to discuss this whole morning. It's actually the subject of this law. Of course nothing in the amendment of this law will interfere with certain special procedures and procedures. There's a restitution here today. It is good that Serbia has the Law on Restitution, it is also good by European standards, it is good for our citizens, it is good to correct certain injustices, but what does this law have to do with restitution problems? It's good even for a restitution to write clearly in land books what rights a state has, which has no rights, which is entitled to a third country. It's especially good at big centres, city centers where there are most quiet, let's say, in practice troublesome situations. This is very important to know precisely in Belgrade, that it is also in the King, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad in particular, in other parts of the country, of course, the same extent that land books are conducted neatly and in general. So once again to clarify, it was the topic of this discussion, that's the agenda, that's why we're actually gathered here today. There is no doubt that in the day of the SNS vote, they will support this law. There is no doubt because, I repeat, this law that only corrects one mistake that we are apparently some previous legislator, some previous government has misrespected, misdetermined the term, and now we give an additional year for the deadline. I don't see why, and that's what so much of a problem is being talked about today, which is why the National Assembly has to work on Sunday because of this law. Come on, who needs to make a nice memo and read later, let's see which MPs have a problem with what we have to do on Sunday and what we have to discuss about a topic that's important for Serbia, so if we have to do Saturday and Sunday. That's what we talked about here today. There was talk about bunkers, there was talk about everything and everything. There was also talk about obstructions, and I don't know how else to define the behavior of certain parts of the opposition that are today's debate, and I hope I've explained exactly what the subject of the debate is, they're using for some other guy's shootings. I was deliberately trying to explain this as a lawyer. In front of the SNS, of course, of all honours and to Minister Mirovic, it is a great honor for the government of the Republic of Serbia to see that one technical problem should be solved. You're asking why they haven't seen it before, why hasn't something been written in land books before? I repeat, just because in a huge number of cases, fellow lawyers will agree, fellow lawyers in particular, there are just serious legal problems for enrolment. There are currently serious legal misunderstandings for enrolment on the ground. Our citizens know that from their neighborhood. It can't be determined where the border of a plot begins, where the state begins, where it starts private, where the restitution, where there are three heirs, where the litigation is, where there is a divorce case. These are reasons why a number of directors of public enterprises, only one number failed to carry out certain legal obligations, not to say obligations, certain legal, in any case useful things. They failed to comply with the law of the state in the land books. Finally, to repeat the good law, the required law, the technical law, the purely technical law which the SNS, of course, will, in the day of voting to vote with great satisfaction to vote in favour, to vote in favour and to support the work of this government in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23719	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list is Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23720	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, in the previous part of the debate, we witnessed one obstruction of the opposition's work on one to say a very small change in this law. My colleague, Vlad Cvian, has made it clear and loud about what this is all about and I think we should be committed to making it easier for all public enterprises, especially at the place to put their assets where they need to be and to know exactly what they have. There were major problems in the post-election period in 2012 at the local level after taking responsibility for local self-government. Public enterprises were in high debt, and that was one problem that was slowly being resolved. What is very important because of some needs in the previous government, and we know that it is clear that the 2011 period, 2012 period of preparation and pre-election campaigns, have been taking place through various machinations, but since the legislation at that time allowed it to do so, we have had situations that companies especially public utility companies are carrying out certain activities for which they are not authorised. However, this has led to major problems, as so - called developments have developed. the party partnership and the budget of the local self-government in a very perfiduous way have sucked out the funds that were later used in various campaigns. This led all to great debt and what the local self-government faced was the initial return of debts and normal functioning of public enterprises, so that citizens would not remain without heating during the winter season, without saying that some public enterprises whose founder of local self-government at the time directly violated the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases and carried out various tasks of disinfection, disinsectation and deratiation in institutions in which they could exclusively operate authorised health institutions. Just for the simple reason that there would be a spilling of budgets from one party institution to another. These are the problems that made it impossible for this law to be implemented on time and at the right time. We'll try to remove it all. We are on a good path, the SNS will certainly support this change of laws and for the sake of our inhabitants, our citizens, our children, I think we should be more expedient in our work, be with a slightly greater compromise and work more efficiently to achieve what we want, which is Serbia's progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23721	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23722	Dear ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the way the bill came into parliament, clearly shows what the government's position towards parliament is. More specifically, this new reconstructed government, in the same way as the previous one, which was the trom, which you measured by the passing time, does not respect parliament. You will agree, Ministers, that it is absolutely inadmissible for the government to refer to parliament on 30 September to amend the law, where only one member is changed, and then, after three days, the proposal is withdrawn and the new bill is sent to parliament. What did the minister in that government say on September 30th that you voted in favour of the bill which says that it is sufficient to extend the deadline by six months, and then what defined you that only three days after that you believe that the six-month deadline is not enough, that it takes a year? It is an unacceptable argument that we had the opportunity to hear, that such a practice had also had some previous government by proposing some laws at the last minute. I don't think any practice that was bad should be a practice. If this reconstructed government, and we've heard about it for six months, that you've entertained the citizens of this country by measuring some passing time, that this government will be more efficient, waiting for the last day to propose to the Assembly, I find this government inconclusive. She's insecure because you have three ministers more than the last one. What you've been doing for a month. We could have considered this in September and it is not a problem if parliament will work on Sunday. That was never the problem. The problem is, why didn't we work yesterday? What made us MPs unemployed yesterday? We were because the government was inconclusive, made a proposal and pulled it. This could have been the point of the regular session of the first session. It was not necessary to interrupt the existing session and schedule a new session just because you government ministers were inefficient. Mr. Minister, Bojan Djuric has asked you a few questions and I don't think you've answered any questions. One question was to specify at least some public enterprise whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, who did not sign up for his property even though it expired two years ago. You didn't find it appropriate to list any such companies. I'm saying this because you're saying in the light of the law that there's a large number of such companies. What's Mr. Minister's number, 100, 200, 300, 500? How many public enterprises in Serbia failed to respect the two-year deadline? To be clear, this two-year-old deadline may be a problem in some public enterprises, but certainly not in all businesses and the problem is irresponsible directors. You are responsible for the directors you laid down 14 months ago, and the previous government directors for a period of 10 months. What were the directors doing if this wasn't their priority? They cannot be held accountable by public companies for not reporting their assets. What does that have to do with each other? It has absolutely nothing to do with it. It is true that many public companies owe and are obliged, it is another problem, but not reporting property is a problem of inability to run these public enterprises. Those leaderships were chosen by you from the SNS, the SPS and up until a few months ago from the URS. Mr. Minister, has JP "Serb Railway" entered its assets? Did the official messenger report the property, did Elektroprivreda report the property? If you don't know about some other companies, I assume you know about this, because when you proposed this law, the government session was on Monday, and you were in SNS on Sunday considering a report on the work of your directors, so I assume you know if they've fulfilled their obligation? Or is it their obligation to share various rewards of 50,000 dinars, to travel, to walk, to have representations, not to do the work that they need to do? What are we MPs supposed to do? Should we give them another year? Who says this deadline is enough, and why wouldn't a six-month period be enough? You haven't told us a word about it? In what way are you as a minister, as a member of the government, and in what way did this government say that it was enough for a year, or why wasn't it enough time for those six months? Minister, today you also said that bad relations in public enterprises are in terms of debt, but that the concept of governance in public enterprises is wrong. You said responsibility should be borne by someone else, not this government. So I was quoting what you said today. How is it possible that another government should bear, and not this government, the responsibility for poor work and the management of public enterprises? Well, this government, this assembly majority has proposed a Law on Public Enterprises, which was adopted here in December in parliament. Who is responsible that the Government does not implement all that is necessary under the Law on Public Enterprises? Who's responsible for the government's failure to call the competition? Well, someone else can't be responsible. You are responsible for the exercise of power, because if you had called for competitions, and that was the LDP amendment, by July 1, you would probably have some better quality and better directors of public enterprises than we have today. Will the directors bear any responsibility for you? You're the minister in charge of local self-government. Will the directors of public enterprises and local self-government bear any responsibility that their directors, party listeners, have not fulfilled their obligation? Can you answer me, Mr. Minister, any of these questions? Did the Railways report the property, the official messenger, Elektroprivreda? If you don't know about the other directors, I assume you know about those who are capable of SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23723	The word has Minister Igor Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23724	Mrs. Gerov, I have already tried to answer questions asked by my colleague Đurić, but here I will add a few sentences. First, from the basic period of two years, including the amendments on the agenda or which will be on the agenda after the principle debate, and finally and from the time that the Government has set as a period of extension for the validity of the norm, there are different estimates. So it's about time estimated and nothing else can be added or taken away. That is the case, the amendments and the initial deadline in the 2011 draft law and this extension also speak. Who in the hall can say what an ideal time limit this would be, and on the basis of which the parameters could be established, when it comes to a very complex area in which it depends not only on the administration of a public enterprise or individuals, but on the entire chain and mechanism that needs to be supported, which we know very well that in our country it is not perfect, to enroll property rights over individual properties or individual elements as the law provides? Secondly, I spoke about the state of public enterprises in the context of a debate that has very explicitly pointed to the volume of debt of 6.3 billion euros in public enterprises, and I believe that you do not think that this rather high volume was created in the current government's mandate. That is why, in the context of this debate, I said that there is a dominant responsibility of the previous Government for problems in the very business of public enterprises, but I am not one of those who hides behind the work of predecessors, nor do I want to transfer full responsibility to the government and to earlier governments that are essentially, even when looking at the level of debt, lead to the situation in public enterprises being unsustainable. There are also failures today and we are publicly talking about these serious shortcomings in all teams that manage public enterprises and serious conceptal differences, if you will, and governments on one side and management teams in public enterprises. For God's sake, it also speaks and announces a major reform in the public sector, which, of course, should first be affected by public enterprises as some kind of dominant or key economic factor that manages resources in various areas for which the government is responsible. What is new, which you are quite clearly criticising, and yet it must and can serve to praise, is that competitions are being called for the selection of directors in most public enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in the vast majority. Are there exceptions in which no competitions are scheduled? There is. Is that good? It's not good. Is that supposed to change? It should change as soon as possible and as concrete as possible. Were there competitions in which the structures, regardless of who is in power and the different parties exercise power at different levels, created a competition so that it corresponds to the existing director, regardless of the company structure itself and the need for individual professional qualifications as a form of guarantee of quality management to be entered into the competition elements? There was that, and it was in a lot of places. Is that supposed to be fixed? It should, but this government has introduced the Institute of Public Competition and will continue to build on it and will continue to endure on that principle. Probably in the first half of the year, a year or two, we will not have the desired quality when it comes to elected people in the sector, but we will probably hope that we will eventually come to a clear and open concept, that the best with references on behalf of the state manage not only public enterprises, but also many other institutions for which they should be in charge. I think I've answered all the questions you asked me. I don't know if I missed anything. Yes, a very important question I've failed to answer. The Law on Public Property does not provide for the obligation of our insight, and this may now be the central issue of today's debate, the insight of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or of certain ministries in whether or not public enterprises have done, according to the provisions of the law, this obligation to register on real estate and on other forms of property, whether they have done this job that we are talking about today. Could we perhaps have built some kind of mechanism and yet to carry out this insight, it is indeed for discussion, but at any moment through the Republic Geodetic Institute and in other ways it can be listed and made aware of whether and what public enterprise this job has done. In the end, even though they don't do the job, that property remains part of public property. The state is not at a loss, so to speak in the language of the people, although some public enterprise does not do the job of a member of the law that provides for an extension within a year. I think citizens should be informed openly that it is now not about any possible or potential loss on which they will be a state unless the public undertaking fulfils its obligation. There'll be more complicated relationships. We won't have the clean picture we want to have, but the state isn't at a loss. The property classification motif actually lies in the fact that we want to simplify the complete management of the property and the whole process that goes along with it and to give additional time for public enterprises and their dependent societies to complete the process. I think I've answered all your questions since you've had an objection that I haven't answered any questions. If you have any more questions, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23725	National MP Radmil Gerov, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23726	I thank the Ministers for your reply, but I am not pleased with your answer. First of all, you haven't told me how many public enterprises it is. At the end of your presentation, I think we were able to understand that the government doesn't even know what public enterprises are, what the number is, and then I don't know what you wrote here on the grounds that it's a large number of public enterprises when you say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't have that kind of data. So, you didn't answer my question if it was "The Official Messenger", if it was done by "The Railways of Serbia", whether it was done by the EPS. You said this was about the estimated deadline, but I asked you a direct question – on what basis did you consider as minister of 30 September six months and voted in a year on 3 October? I didn't get an answer for that either. You said there were 6.3 billion debts and that this government alone couldn't be held accountable. I agree with that, that's what the previous one is responsible for, but this government is responsible too. You said there's a gap in the work of public enterprises today, and we're talking about it. That's why reforms are announced. Yes, that's what you're talking about, but you're not doing anything. What about the CEO of the EPS? He is subsidies, i.e. Gifts, awards given to workers last year. Does it take a year for him to be replaced? That's what you're talking about, but you're not doing anything. That's what this is about. You're saying this government has introduced competitions. It's true, competitions have been called. You yourself say that they are not in all public enterprises and that they are not for all public enterprises, but the competitions were called after the deadline, and the deadline was July 1st, which means that the first government of the Republic of Serbia did not respect the law and many units of local self-government did not respect the Law on Public Enterprises on the deadline for calling the competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23727	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23728	I warn you once again, Mr Arsenovic, member 27 and Article 116. Rules of Procedure. I think it's a harsh violation of this assembly's dignity if the minister is allowed to say that in most public enterprises a competition is called, if this National Assembly has previously passed a law saying that competition must be called in all public enterprises. I think it's inadmissible to say that in this National Assembly at all. We've been through this a thousand times already. Let's not go into politics why it's like this or not like this. There is a law, it has not been implemented and cannot be expected from parliament to have an understanding of the situation when...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23729	Please don't. You've already broken and abused the Rules of Procedure several times. If you continue to do so, I will be forced to give you a measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23730	Okay. I think it's a lot less damage than the damage that comes from breaking the law, but as you wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23731	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23732	Now I don't know if I can speak if this was a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I thought I was replicating it, but it doesn't go into parliamentary regulations. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23733	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23734	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, although this bill has one provision that points to the need to move the deadline for signing up the property of public enterprises and the capital society, the whole debate so far has pointed to, I think, a more important thing that we had to expect from the government's representative, which is to go before this National Assembly with the amendment of this law much deeper, much more comprehensive and much more serious, because the law adopted in 2011, which the DSS criticised, which, as one of the colleagues here has called, has made a rotten compromise between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government, where 20 amendments to the government of Vojvodina, were just before the start of the debate, has just brought us into this situation. Bad law, with bad solutions, adopted under pressure from the government in Vojvodina, has led to this situation where we are now. That's one side of this problem. Another problem is that neither the previous nor the current government understood the complexity of the process that had entered. Public property and its three forms were established under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Although it was inadmissiblely late for the law to be passed, the law was passed. The previous government and this government had to understand the complicated processes and how many entities they would have to work with to implement this process and not to come into this situation where we are now. You said at one point, Mr. Minister, it was not a matter of creating mechanisms to control the process. There was a lack of coordination at all levels, and at the level of the Republic, when it comes to the property of the Republic of Serbia, that I am not talking about, I will talk about it much deeper, estimating your presence as Minister of Local Self-Government, the problems we will only face when it comes to enrolling local self-government and public enterprises at that level, and particularly the complex issue of AP Vojvodina property. To remind you, dear colleagues, this law was passed in October 2011, where the law said that the assets of the AP Vojvodina would be established, among other things, under the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which the DSS at that time said was absolutely unconstitutional. The law was passed, it entered into force, the registration of property began, in July 2012 the Constitutional Court announced the law unconstitutional. I ask you now, Mr. Minister, it is a very important question, since a number of powers have been put outside the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, concerning the AP Vojvodina, is some property listed as ownership of the AP Vojvodina in order to exercise the powers that are now unconstitutional? That's a very important question. Does the AP Vojvodina now have any possessions? Although we have then indicated that 20 amendments were not allowed into the process of passing such a law, although 20 amendments were passed to the pressure of the government of Vojvodina, we have received such a law and the Law on determining jurisdiction in the Constitutional Court has been brought down. It's a matter that needs to be taken care of, because a series of jurisdiction has been taken over, it's unconstitutional. Unfortunately, some have not yet respected the position of the Constitutional Court. When it comes to registering public enterprises at the level of local self-government, I think you will face a huge problem, Mr. Minister. You have now said – we have no obligation under the law to control which public enterprises have entered or executed a list of their assets. How will you, Mr. Minister, in over 180 cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia control the registration of property of public enterprises in these cities and municipalities? Why are we saying that this deadline is short? If there's no way of coordinating, which in the end you're going to work, the local self-government commission. That process will never be over. I remind you, the deadlines for enrollment of the property of local self-government are due next year. In a large number of local self-government processes are not even started and a large number of local self-government has no capacity to do the job. These are very complex questions, serious questions. If you do not urgently establish some form of coordination that this process is monitored from the central level, in no way endangering the right to local self-government, we will enter a complete chaos next year. This is another important issue that you as minister would have to pay attention to in the coming period. Yes, this is a step towards decentralisation, that's what was said here in the National Assembly, an important step, which allowed the Constitution, the law. But there is the impression that the local self-government itself did not understand until the end of what decentralisation was, they did not understand their role and they were afraid to enter the process to the end and as if the system which was previously multi-party in Serbia was still in place, to look at Belgrade and as Belgrade commands, so it will be. The local self-government itself has not yet realised that they have certain rights under the Constitution and by law. You have to work to strengthen your awareness of decentralisation. If they don't have that consciousness, they won't even have the consciousness to write down that property that belongs to them. They probably don't understand what they want with the process going this slowly. The situation is so complex that we can meet from year to year in a permanent situation to discuss this. At the very end of the line is the easiest from the government level, fewer public enterprises the government can build from the Ministry of Finance itself a body that will coordinate and say the job has to be done. The previous question is, of course, does the state of Serbia even know what is its? Does the state of Serbia even know what its property is? That's a serious question. If you tell us we don't know that either, we're doing this job for free today. We'll meet in a year and we'll talk all over again. That's why this law was bad, because the previous issue has not been resolved - what does the Republic of Serbia have? I ask you to take this debate seriously today, because no matter what one law or one member is concerned, that member will not solve anything for the past year. It may be resolved at the level of the Republic, but when it goes down deeper I'm not sure that this process without serious coordination and serious meeting, which would be with the presidents and mayors to do and say – people are waiting for you for a year's serious work. I'd like you to answer for Vojvodina because it's a very important question. A very important issue, given that it is being conducted before the Constitutional Court and over the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The whole story of the Vojvodina property and what Vojvodina was investing in and what the Capital Investment Fund is with such a mortgage, which it has on it, invested. It's something we'd like to know. A special issue and a particular problem, which we pointed out when the law was passed, is how this law will apply in our second province, as the current law says - that until the departure of international forces in Kosovo and Metohija will be subject to the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. So, not this current Public Property Act, but the Assets Act of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, if that's the case, if some local self-government on the territory of the republic in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija has entered their property as the property of their local self-government, public utility companies, parts of public enterprises... We don't know now, perhaps EPS, perhaps the "Electro Network" of Serbia... We have today raised a question before the Constitutional Court on energy, about the agreement on energy. What about that property? If you are at the same time making arrangements to suspend part of the Republic of Serbia from the space of Kosovo and Metohija, and this law provides for the application of the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. To complete the process is complex, serious. I don't think it went well. First, it had to change much deeper this bad law. Secondly, the government has not prepared itself for any previous or present problems that arise. Perhaps you can solve the problem at the level of the Republic. How are you going to solve a problem with an AP that permanently blackmails and most of all as it violates the Constitution mostly shouts that the Constitution is being violated by the Republic, and at the level of local self-government there, may God help us all. No one knows how much it is and what it's done. If you do not have any records in 184 municipalities in the Republic of Serbia as far as it is done, we will meet very soon in this same place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23735	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23736	Mr. National MP Palalić has touched on a very interesting subject also concerns the Law on Public Property and the issues related to the Constitutional Court's decision under which certain provisions of the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina are contested. It is possible and the Constitutional Court in its public statement has notified everyone that the Statute of the AP Vojvodina is also at the stage of the evaluation. It is possible that, at that time, from the adoption of the law to the Constitutional Court's decision, the elements of jurisdiction to the registration of property rights, therefore, when it comes to concrete facilities or rights on the part of the AP Vojvodina, and this is now a question that the Ministry of Finance and the Property of the Republic of Serbia must analyse and that part of the property rights on the side of the Republic of Serbia's protection. On the other hand, there is no need to dispute on the AP Vojvodina what is its right and what it according to the indisputable elements of the Constitution and the relevant laws has. That thing needs to be completely clean and simple and demarcated. These are primarily things in which politics do not need and cannot have great influence, but strictly legal norms, demarcation elements in accordance with certain competences arising from the law and the Constitution. That's really for analysis. I can accept your initiative to make one letter to the Property Directorate, and I believe that everyone will support it, in this way, to access the data. Whether something was done in the meantime, which is later on through the elements of jurisdiction in the procedure of evaluation by the Constitutional Court, has been disputed and I have no dilemmas. The second question you've raised is the question I think from Article 90. The law on the application of the Law on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija and that member says – until the international administration has ceased to function, established in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija on the issues relating to funds in its Republic of Serbia, appropriate provisions of the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia will be applied. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the corresponding ministries are behind this member. Mr Palalic, there is a force that stands above the right something that is part of it, a rougher term and I don't like it, real life and in that part, in statements and in actions, and even in concrete parts of those bodies that are in charge of these issues, I mean the local authorities, the organs of the Republic of Serbia, after all, in real life we find barriers. That is so and so it will be as long as the Republic of Serbia one day believes it will be able to apply all its laws on its territory. That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23737	Replica, Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23738	Thank you, Mr. Minister. As far as this first question is concerned, you're absolutely right. On the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the indisputable provisions of the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, it has the power to register on its behalf the property necessary for the exercise of those powers. That's not controversial. I simply pointed out the problem that between law-making and law enforcement, the Constitutional Court reacted from a number of energy-related areas, protecting the environment and the question of the so-called question. Academy of Science and Arts and the National Park "Fruška Gora". You have a lot of complex questions that have to be corrected because the speed to which the amendments have been tabled indicates that it probably worked quickly when it comes to the entry of assets. It may have been during that period that the enrollment took place. As for the second issue, both of which refer to both our AP, the Law on Assets of Property of the Republic of Serbia says all property is in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija is property of the Republic of Serbia. My question is, does the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the one hand have a clear picture of what is listed? Why did I ask that question, and why do I have the right to doubt it? Because as we discuss this issue with the illegal institutions of Kosovo, we exchange cadastrian books. We are now also discussing the issue of energy, concerning the network, which, under this law, are solely the property of the Republic of Serbia. No other law can be applied if we want to respect the Law on the Funds of the Republic of Serbia, except for the laws of the Republic of Serbia, including the Law on Local Self-Government. Local self-government over there has some buildings they use. It's all the property of the Republic of Serbia. How can we now suspend the legal order by applying the laws of so-called. Kosovo and Metohija, if we know that based solely on the laws applicable in the Republic of Serbia, this property is treated as property of the Republic of Serbia? That was my question. It's clear to me there's a force there. The law of the Republic of Serbia cannot be suspended by that force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23739	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23740	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have before us a bill amending the Law on Public Property, which was delivered to the Members of the People 22 hours ago. So the MPs in the paper received this bill, at least in my parliamentary group, the DS, at 1805 hours. The fact is that earlier that law appeared in the e-parliament before noon. However, I was in a position because I was in the National Assembly to enter the e-parliament and to see the bill and to submit the amendment at 13.00 hours. The fact is that the whole material, including the bill's proposal, the assembly and everything else, was packaged after 13.55 p.m., as the colleague submitted the amendment to the second law at 13.55 p.m. So before that, it couldn't be packed into envelopes and sent to the MPs. Those MPs who can't make an insight into the e-parliament, they had an opportunity to react to the amendments to this law only when they got the paper version of it. That's all I'm saying is how it's been made possible for the MPs to respond to the bill. The fact is that we are considering this law as an emergency procedure, because this law regulates issues and relationships created under circumstances that could not be predicted. It could not be predicted, although the law two years ago stated that the deadline expires on 6 October. It could not be predicted that the deadline would expire on 6 October this year. I don't know who can understand that it's a circumstance we couldn't predict. If we read the law from two years ago, anyone can see that the deadline expires on October 6th. That's why we're going to work Friday, Sunday, or I don't know what day. These are circumstances we couldn't predict. Apparently, someone didn't look at the situation in time and suggest changes in time. I would now point to the provisions of Article 124. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia where the government is said to be responsible to the National Assembly for the politics of the Republic of Serbia, for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and for the work of the authorities of the state administration. To us, MPs, we need to match those who have not done their part of the work or who have not controlled those who need to be controlled. I must give you two more provisions of the Public Property Act, which concern the deadlines and manner of reporting, including this deadline. Paragraph 6 of Article 64 states explicitly – a public enterprise, a company of capital, a subsidiary of capital, an institution or another legal person whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government keeping records of the immovableity of the public property it uses. Data from the immovableity record of the position of the 6th member – a public undertaking, a company of capital, a subsidiary of capital, an institution, a public agency or another legal person whose founder, the Republic of Serbia, is supplied to the agency that keeps a single record of immovable property. Is all this kept up to date? I don't think so. Second, the Directorate, Article 71, submits an annual report to the Government on the state of immovableity in public property no later than 31 May of the current year for the previous year. Come on, if that's delivered. There was space, June, July, August, September to consider it, to see if everything was done and there was an opportunity, if we appreciate that the deadline should be extended, to do so. We now have a situation that three days earlier, on Monday, the government estimates, I guess not just a handful of methods, but based on some analysis, based on these data that probably considered whether it took three months, six months or a year. I expected that we would get this in the light of the bill's proposal on the basis of which the elements were estimated, first six months, and then three days later, the government, again, does not say on the basis of which new data, estimates, if again it is not a hand method, that the deadline should be one year longer. That's why I proposed an amendment to be three months, because I have no argument offered by the legislator why it should be, either six months, any year, any other deadline. If it's another deadline, let's face the arguments, so maybe I'll suggest it be longer. This is not the way laws are proposed. So, when the deadline is up, when it's over, when it's teat, the flag is already falling for those who play chess, and then basically in all that teat, we're making a suggestion and we're trying in a certain way to extend the deadline, because obviously someone didn't do his job. This is where I ask publicly - who hasn't done his job? Are these objective circumstances or subjective weaknesses? We don't have any serious analysis of what could guide us, define ourselves in the vote, whether we're going to look for an extension of seven days, God created the world in seven days, or in a month, three months, six months, a whole Olympic cycle, four years or until the end of this government's term, and give the next government seven days more. Maybe that next government will do what needs to be done in the next seven days, control those that need to be controlled. In that sense, I point out that obviously in the preparation of this law a whole series of fouls was made and procedural, practically the way this came on the agenda. The rights of the MPs of the people have been seriously violated to prepare themselves for a session of the National Assembly. I appeal not to repeat it again. Once again, I underline that in such an unserious way, the government should not behave in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23741	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is actually so characteristic of the laws passed by this power, it's so characteristic that it's actually a very late reaction, it's not even a little strategy, it's not even a little vision, it's literally a ceasefire and it's at the last minute. So this law will in fact represent only one statistical point in calculating the number of laws passed by the current government. What is so characteristic of what makes this bill so similar to these other laws that we discussed here in parliament? The way the law is proposed and the way it entered the assembly procedure, as well as the reasons for the adoption of this law, which are not given in the light of the draft law. So, the least important is the argument that you cited and the reason that stands there, which only refers to the pre-exclusive deadline of October 6th, which actually occurs. It is very important what is behind this way of passing laws in the congregation procedure and the reason why this law is proposed. And that is, in fact, one irresponsibleness, it is, in fact, one reluctant, it is a lack of expertise and it is a failure of obligations, I could say and abuse of the official duty of all those who have been obliged to keep an eye on what will happen if that deadline expires, when more public enterprises cannot acquire that property through enrolment in public books. We are going back to the situation that public enterprises are a huge problem for Serbia, and an even bigger problem is the lack of political will to introduce order in the management of public enterprises and that public enterprises are still, there are 700, the subject of party bargaining, party prey and, in fact, in public enterprises, there is so much support for this negative selection, in terms of expertise and ability, and everything that has led to the Serbian economy in this position. And this two-member law will not change anything positive about public enterprises, it will not contribute anything positive to a very bad public property law, but it will only show that there will be no more, apart from some of the principles of Serbia's modernisation. You, Mr. Minister, have just said one resection, and you have also expressed one hope. Resignation was about real life in Kosovo. Hope was possibly about some future about this Kosovo. Mr. Minister, I would remind you of the Brussels Agreement and I would really recommend you read the Brussels Agreement first, and secondly, consider what you said here in Parliament about this Brussels Agreement and about the KIM status. This law, if we read it just like this, member by member, we simply have nothing to say, but a lot of what is behind this law, but also the way it arrived here today to discuss it, and all of it is, in fact, a great burden that is clearly an insurmountable obstacle to today's rule. It is not difficult to rule, however, it is very difficult to exercise authority, and that responsibility assumes that you know what you want, why you want and what are the consequences of that desire, or proposal, among other things, and this law. We can't talk about public property, we can't talk about public enterprises, and we can't avoid mentioning everything that is missing to Serbia in terms of public enterprises and economic policy management. You know how much public debt it is yourself. You know how much the deficit is and how much is expected by the end of the year. You know all this, but you don't know and you don't have the right answer – how can you change it? Therefore, you can continue to propose such laws. In a year's time, if this government remains, it will most likely propose some more amendments to the Law on Public Property, precisely because of all these deadlines that you will miss and that does not mean anything, and that will be just another statistical point for the government that proposes laws and for the parliamentary majority that will vote them. What is the real answer to real challenges and the real state of things in Serbia? There is obviously no answer, and we will find it difficult to get it, even if we specifically ask it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23743	Thank you. Minister Mirovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23744	Mrs Popovic, the real response of the Serbian government is primarily seen in huge activities that also in the public sector, such as the restructuring of JAT and the formation of a joint venture with Etihada, the world-leading company, such large companies have never come to Serbia before, such as Mubadala, such as Etyhad, such as the announced investment of Mercedes and Bosa. So, the Serbian government has tried in a realistic way to stop the negative trends that exist in the sector that has been underestimated, and this is not about the public sector. That's right, you were talking about them. Now I could talk about it for a few hours, risking, like you, getting out of the context of what we're talking about today. Today we are only talking about wanting to extend the time limit for the registration of property rights over real estates for which these public enterprises have the appropriate documentation. A whole series of other problems, you're right, there are in public enterprises, and we, the government announced it, already on Monday with a whole package of measures that, among other things, procedures and the public sector, public enterprises and in general the public sector, when it comes to this huge consumption that is related to the public sector, which is unacceptable, and I can agree with you there, in that part. You have completely without arguments, compared to just one extension of a year, accused the government of unhappiness, of missing official duties, of failings, of many things that do not exactly mark the work of this one, but of those governments that brought public enterprises into this situation, and I assume, on behalf of DS, by speaking today in the afternoon debate, Mr Djelic presented information on the debt of the public sector of 6.3 billion euros. I think it is clear to all of us that such a great debt could not have arisen and was not created in the term of office of this government, but was created in the mandate of the previous governments. Whether the concept of governance of public enterprises should be changed and whether a number of public enterprises should eventually come out of this classical concept of public enterprise, form for a start-up closed and later perhaps open company and take a number of other measures to, like JAT, say, where the participation of domestic capital, public capital, 51% and 49% foreign, but the foreign administration is, therefore, through the professionalisation of administration and other ways to create conditions for, as the Etyhad representative said well, the commercial work of public enterprises – yes, it is necessary. In the coming weeks, and believe me, for the next few years, the government will take steps to have a picture in one public enterprise, which will be exactly the opposite of the picture that we found when we took responsibility for this sector as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23745	Thank you. Replica, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23746	Mr. Minister, is JAT's property settled as far as property rights are concerned? Did JAT do everything he had to do under the Public Property Act to register that property? You didn't answer that, but you are calling on some foreign investors to enter, invest in that JAT, do some restructuring of that JAT, etc. Are you seriously counting on any of the foreign investors to get into a messy property thing like JAT? Are you sure this will be possible in terms of investment if you don't regulate JAT's property? And you don't know and you don't have the answer to that question. It's a specific question and a concrete response that's missing. Normally, you've been in power for over a year, so we're going to ask you why you haven't done anything in the last year to respect this deadline in Article 82. Public property law? It's normal for us to be responsible for you because you had to do it. The government changed in 2012. Therefore, you no longer have reason to seek alibis in someone else's act or inaction. For now it is up to you to do something, and you keep calling upon the former, what they have not done, and what they have missed. And what exactly did you do? Like JAT? What did you do about the supervisory boards you were supposed to form in public enterprises?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23747	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23748	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Mirovic, thank you for your presence, but today it was time to be Minister of Finance and finally hear the fantastic and brilliant measures that await us and that will save the citizens of Serbia from the current situation in which their pockets and their families are located. The first proposal to amend this law, which was normally passed in October 2011 and for which non-implementation cannot be held by the previous government, since elections were held immediately in the spring of 2012 and you cannot defend yourself for why you did not do your job. I'm saying, the first shift came three days ago and it meant the deadlines were moving in six months. Yesterday we get another change or withdrawal of the previous proposal and a new proposal that shifts deadlines by one year. I'm not sure if by tomorrow, after this session of the executive board of the largest ruling party is over, we'll get the withdrawal of this proposal and the arrival in the procedure of the new proposal that will further delay the period for which public enterprises are due to enter their assets? What is characterized by the new government's work so far, which, I will repeat, has been ongoing for 14 months, is a failure to implement and delay the application of the law. The non-implementation is best and most clearly reflected in the Law on Public Enterprises for which there is no justification for non-implementation. There's no competition for directors of public enterprises. As for state-owned enterprises, some are listed, some are not, but there is no excuse for non-compliance with deadlines. As for local public enterprises and those who have been called and completed procedures, mostly major problems and major disputes, irregularities, are mostly those directors who were party officials before that and have been chosen by these fictional competitions. Mr. Mirovic, when we talk about the damage that is happening because the application of this law, or this member, is delayed, we do not speak casually. We are talking about the property of Serbian citizens, we are talking about that there is a great capacity in property, a great capacity in resources that can be used to overcome the economic difficulties in which our country is located, and I don't understand why you reject every suggestion of DS and the proposal in the worst possible way? I'll give you an example of how Serbia is going forward with you. Day one. 01. In 2011, the EPS carried out an extraordinary assessment of the underlying assets due to the chronic underestimation of them over a long period of time. The negative consequences of this have been reflected above all in the possibility of rapid privatisation at a bargaining price. Following this revaluation by the previous Government, the value of EPS capital is doubled and approximated to real, economic and market prices. At that time, more than a billion dinars were paid to the state in the name of depreciation, an increase in profits. On 1 December 2012, the new government linearly reduced the value of the ENP's fixed assets by 18%. We're afraid it's precisely because this society is preparing for privatisation, because to this day we haven't got an explanation for it, and I don't think you can give it. That is why it was necessary for Mr Lazar Krstic to be there, because he probably, if he took over the ministerial post, also looked at this issue. It's a huge asset value, Mr. Mirovic. It's not small at all. When it comes to 15 million bonuses for EPS employees today, it's something that's minimal and miserable to this figure, when it comes to the property of this company, which I repeat again, for an unknown reason is reduced by 18%. I want to thank you and I will not be badly critical of you, as you have been to the MPs of the DS. I want to thank you because today we received another recognition of what the government did not do, or what it did in the previous period. Before you here in the Assembly there was, defending the Law on Legalization, Mr. Velimir Ilic. He explained that the amendment to the Law on Legalisation was not filed on time, in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, because it was a government reconstruction, so ministers could not give their statements. I thanked him for that, really. That's what we've been saying for six months. It is quite clear that this change has come this way today because we in Serbia have been dealing with various topics for 14 months, from false zero tolerance to various foundations, department, Marshall's plan, persecution of DS, reconstruction, and today we have come to wonders, various things that are not the problem of citizens, which do not solve their problems and various things that are not solutions to the situation in which this society is located. We urge you to give answers to questions that plague the citizens of Serbia. In the past few days, we have proposed to this assembly several legislative proposals. The remarks of colleagues in the position were heard here that because DS MPs submitted the amendments, the assembly would have a great deal of cost to do for another day. Why is the proposal of the DS MPs not accepted to amend the law on higher education, and then reduce costs. It is a complete replacement of the thesis, a complete nonsension and it is truly unacceptable in this way to dispute with the MPs of the opposition. Mr. Mirovicu, we regret that we have been telling the truth here for 14 months, and that you, in various ways, primarily by persecuting through your tabloid media and through the institutions where you pressure, are trying to silence the DS. Unfortunately for you, that is exactly what you will not succeed in, and we will continue to present facts that are important to the lives of Serbian citizens. I think another proof of how this, as my colleague Milivojevic would say, is the worst government since the arrival of the Southern Slovenians in these areas, in which she is implementing state policy, is this bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23749	Minister Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23750	Mr. Jovanovic, I think the debate so far has been extremely argumentative. You are now presenting some quite new thesis, about the tabloid media, about some kind of violence against you, or over DS, although it is not the topic of the agenda. I must tell you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not in control of the media. The press is free in our country, you are probably bound through political action for an earlier period when media control was extremely present in our society, which can be seen in the simplest way, through the Agency for Economic Registers, or through the relationship of certain companies that purchased media space under certain conditions, and thus held, practically, a monopoly over financial influence over the sphere. Today is not the case anymore. I believe that today's debate in which, at least on my part, you couldn't hear a single struggle and a harsh word, showed exactly the opposite of what you said and what you wanted to place on the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling parties. So, you can feel free to say what you think, but the reason for your address is more than small, we extend the period of validity of one member, of a law, and that kind of challenge that you are now suggesting that we talk about other issues, and I'm not running away from it, it's simply not appropriate for today's agenda, nor for her on your part there are arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23751	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23752	I appreciate the answer, but I don't think he was on the right question. I was talking about the tabloid media, and you know it well. Okay, let's go back to the subject I was talking about. What about the property of the Serbian state in Kopalnik, for example, a hotel that was sold for 30% of the market value, by direct contract. It's property, it's also public property. What about the public company "Srbigas", with the disputed purchases of 20 billion. What about 24 privatisations in Serbia in which DS did not exercise power in the Republic of Serbia at the time, and they were implemented, which is being said, why is this not being resolved? Finally, let me ask you a question that I gave you during the discussion, and I didn't even get a comment. Why did the new government, or new EPS management, reduce the value of the company's assets linearly by 18% on 1 December 2012. Is this because we are preparing the silent privatisation of this public enterprise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23753	Thank you. The word has Minister Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23754	Very short and very concrete answers. The privatisation of the public undertaking of the EPS is not being prepared. In "Srbigas" there is a great debt, primarily based on the guarantee that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this one and earlier issued on the name of the public undertaking's obligations according to the JP "Srbigas" programme, but also according to a large difference in the price between the import price of gas, the part should also be observed objectively and the gas prices delivered to our citizens, as should objectively be observed and any irregularities found by the state auditor in the JP "Srbigas" business. Of course and on the basis of, as you have been informed, the State Auditor's report, the company's control is under way by the relevant authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Everything about the controversial 24 privatisations, we've been talking about for months. The subject is analysis, appropriate checks, investigation. As far as the results are concerned, individual investigations have revealed facts to the public, and most of them will be known by the end of 2013. I think I've answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23755	Thank you. Ivan Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23756	Yes, except for one question – why on 1 December 2012 is the linearly reduced value of EPS assets by 18%?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23757	Thank you. Minister Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23758	At this point, I can't tell you why it was done. Has the management done some kind of accounting that is purely financial or there is some other investment plan, but I can accept on behalf of both the Ministry and the Government to provide you with an answer in writing to that question within the time limit prescribed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23759	Thank you. Zoran Babic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23760	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Madam Chairman, I appreciate the possibility of different interpretations and opinions on certain legal proposals, but I will call on you and the other colleagues and previous speakers to ask that the issues of the government on the last Thursday of the month, according to the Rules of Procedure, which is not the rules of the SNS or this majority, have already been made in the previous session. The Government's questions are raised on a wide range of topics when the Government is present here, and I don't see any connection with whether something has been reduced, is reduced, what has been done with the Law amending the Law on Public Property, where the deadline is extended by a year. So, I appreciate the interpretation, I appreciate the width, I appreciate the questions being asked, but asking questions to the government are the last Thursday of the month. Be patient that last Thursday of the month goes. We've never avoided such an organisation of the session, but to turn every session into a matter of government I think is the most cruel violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23761	Thank you. I don't think there's any damage to article 106. The Rules of Procedure, given that the question asked by Mr Jovanovic was about property, so I interpret differently from you, Mr Babic. The word has Minister Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23762	I would not wish nor have the right to assess the parliamentary debate, especially the justification of the chair to lead the session. What I can only say is that the government is always and all the ministers who attend the sessions that we are always ready to answer all the questions. If that is not possible today, then we will respond to the session at which it is possible. So, we are not running away from an answer to any questions, and regardless of what my colleague Babic is formally right, I just wanted to underline that to us, in an open game, in sports language, absolutely doesn't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23763	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23764	I thank you, Mr. Minister, but I don't understand the anxiety of my colleagues from the biggest ruling party. It's just, I think it's important around these deadlines if it's said that within a year the value of one of our largest public enterprises has been reduced accountingly, you're right by 18% linearly, I'd like to know why? It's about this law, about deadlines, it's important that you follow the subject. So it's very important because when the state auditor is doing a review, he asks that the property is in financial balance, and we break more laws if it's not done. And simply, for that reason I asked Mr. Minister, he answered me, I don't understand your anxiety, unless you recognized yourself in this EPS privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23765	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23766	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, welcome to the National Assembly for the first time in the capacity of the Minister who participates in the debate and discussion. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate is best depicted by the chaos that occurred in the Republic of Serbia because of an inefficient act of an incomprehensible phenomenon that has not been recorded in the analyses of Serbian parliamentaryism. We are witnessing today what the obstruction of parliamentary work by the ruling majority looks like. This has not been recorded by any parliament so far that the ruling majority, that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the strongest parliamentary party are trying to obstruct parliamentary work. And then when we ask the question -- why are we working on Sunday? We don't ask that question, we can work on Sundays, and Saturdays, and nights, and New Year's, but we could've worked yesterday, we could've worked last week, we could've worked in September. It's not true we didn't have anything to do and what to meet about, we proposed the laws, but you didn't want to accept them. You could have at least passed this amendment, this bill, not to wait a minute to 12, and then on the neck-to-mouth twice in three days we're making a legal proposal and then you change your mind and then you make another bill, it's a very ugly picture that you sent us. But what do you expect from the ruling opposition party who spent obstructing parliamentary work, submitting 3,000 amendments, although they do not remember that period of their lives. Why are we today discussing amendments to the Law on Public Property, the day before this law provides for some deadlines that are very controversial for public enterprises that were unable to implement them? Today, we are honored that this law has been passed by the previous government with a tendency to allegedly drop that legal deadline on Sunday and then become the end of the world. We have passed the law according to our own measure, according to our own efficiency, our efforts and our efforts to make this country a decent country. We didn't expect drones who weren't able to enforce the law to come after us. What can I tell you? (Zoran Babic, from the place: What did he say, drones? If you didn't hear correctly, I'm glad you did it again, I said that because the government is obsessed with the battle of prey, with the distribution of prey. The government, which has taken over an insatiable longing for even greater power, with even greater privileges, so its greed, looseness and greed when it comes to the accumulation of functions, tries to conceal the service of stories of responsibility, must be responsible for the deadlines prescribed by the law, you did not do so. You've been working too hard to reconstruct the government. You've been making plans for six months, after which you've determined that you've chosen incompetent ministers, so you've reconstructed yourself for six months, and now you're going to make six more months to make plans and postpone the deadlines for law enforcement solely for reasons of your own incompetence. Now, to ask six questions that I would like six concrete answers to, not from you, Mr. Minister, you are only here in Parliament today, and don't mind me not having a lot of communication with you, because I have here those whom I refer to on behalf of the citizens who have delegated us to this Assembly. So, first of all, why are you making a motion to amend this law in a minute to 12? Why is it that your MPs, instead of embarrassing parliament by insinuating that the MPs of the opposition serve inappropriate gestures here, have not moved and read the law and made a proposal to prepare the law. It's much better than to degrade the institution where we all sit together and we've worked hard to build, which you've greatly violated during your opposition work. Why didn't your rising stars warn them not to change waiters at a congregation restaurant, like they did yesterday, but to change the legal deadlines? It's much more appropriate congregation activity than it is today. I have to ask you, why didn't you realize that this deadline expires on October 6th and you were waiting for Friday to make changes to the law? Why didn't you do it last week? We didn't hold a single session in September after the government was reconstructed, not one. I have a few more important questions to ask you. The third question, what reasons were you in charge of when you were making changes to this law? As the minister told us, we heard this morning in an explanation, the reasons for the change in these deadlines were that individual directors of public enterprises were unable for two years to show an elemental interest in the property entrusted to them. You know, Serbian citizens, when you two don't show interest in respecting some legal norm and something that belongs to you, the state in its treatment of you is acting like you don't care about it, so it takes away your right. If public enterprises and you v.d. The directors of public enterprises who have been elected past party competitions and party books have not shown interest in the property entrusted to them, it is their turn to be taken away from them and it is much more important that criminal charges are filed against them because they are in an irresponsible way treating the property of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are very trusted with them. What will the political parties who these days are quick to spat on Serbia and assess the work of ministers, the president of municipalities, mayors, public enterprises, say about these directors of public enterprises? Let me ask you, in which departisan state of political parties evaluates the work of public enterprises, are the directors of these public enterprises? Only in partocrats. Do not by any chance think of pointing your finger at us from the DS and saying, "What have you been doing?" Wait, you've come to the story that you're better than us, smarter, more valuable, that you're going to do the department, that you're going to change that, that these rogue public enterprises that are the most losers, consolidate, put on their feet, that she's going to run a marathon competition. The question further, who are the directors who have failed to fulfil their legal obligation to determine what property they belong to? Give us names and last names. Is it these bar users who eat shampoos and who discovered the denser liver in the 50th year of their lives? Please, I understand that they look a lot at the menu and Cuban cigars and smoke from Cuban cigars is blocking that list of public enterprises' assets, but Serbian citizens are interested in when someone has time to go to France and make an account of 3,000 euros for lunch, I guess there is a time in the morning when he comes to see what his assets are entrusted to him on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to manage it. We don't have to wait a minute till 12 to find out and make it right. I also have a question for those two JUL fins that asked me out yesterday, to beat me, which are not in the bench right now -- whether this law will apply when Volin's border is crossed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23767	Please, Mr. Milivoevich, don't just use offensive expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23768	Excuse me, please. I have a question for the two of them whether this law will apply when Volin's border is crossed and he comes to Kosovo Mitrovica? Do you know what they call an administrative crossing? Vulin's border. Will we determine the property of public enterprises in Kosovo and Metohija, what is the amount of it, what is it with it, who is its owner, since when it is its owner, who has left this property to whom, how? You're playing with the states. Some of them resented me playing on my computer. I wish you knew how to play computer games instead of playing with the state. The computer is a cheap toy. Serbia is an expensive toy and is not a toy at all. It was paid in the blood of our ancestors. Every lump of this country you play with is soaked with blood so that Serbia is what it is, not that you play with it, but to watch out for it, to increase its assets, to have the property that is entrusted to you properly. She's not yours. It belongs just as much to those heroes from Koshar who died, as much as to you, who are laughing now, because it's funny to you. There's something else I need to ask you. While you are now reviewing the directors of public enterprises, when will you choose these directors of public enterprises in accordance with the competition? Don't mind my colleague Bojan Djuric, I'll quote his question. What did this deadline last 24 months or two years? It stands out on Sunday, and since last government's election, since the supposed constitution of a new policy, more than 14 months have passed since allegedly seducing order in the public sector. So the people you named there or the people you tolerate there didn't do what was their legal obligation. Now I'm asking you, if you had implemented the Law on Public Enterprises as it says, if you had called a contest by June 30th, elected directors, they would have had enough time to say themselves that this law is not good, that it is not good. Why did you make two legal proposals? The first legislative proposal extended the deadline to two and a half years, the second to three years. Do you want me to tell you how the law should be? The day of the government's fall should begin to apply this law, as this government has been the worst since the arrival of southern Slovenia into the Balkans. This government is in no condition to do anything about the implementation of this law. I heard in Kruševec a sentence from your party president – it will be better one day. Well, to get better two days with you can't, only one day can get better. You know, Serbia with this kind of government is moving forward seven miles. This advanced setback is also the result of the government's lack of concern for property, the experience of politics as privileges, and not as responsibilities, the struggle for these privileges, the attitude towards public enterprises like the Alajbeg straw, and, unfortunately, it is your mirror. The law and today's debate are primarily mirrored by the SNS and their relationship to the property of the Republic of Serbia. This relationship stands in just two words: shame and shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23769	Thank you. National MP Zoran Babic, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23770	Article 106. We were at the rally again. We heard everything again, but nothing about the law. We've heard about Kosharam, we've heard about the administrative line. I will inform the previous speaker that the administrative line is not a border, but your fellow MP has signed an Integrated Border Management Agreement, so we have been unable to establish anything that your colleague has not signed before. You've boasted that this law is, and I'm going to try to talk about the law, the child of the previous government, and that it's the best in the world, and now you're saying why these directors, who haven't used that right to sign up for property, why no criminal charges have been filed against them. Is that what it says in that law? Is this how you ask us to break the law? On the other hand, since you had a few questions, I have questions for you too. Are the directors elected in Belgrade after the out-of-party contest? Did Mr. Ceran use his rights and obligations under this law? Cvijo Babic, vice president of the DS City Committee, and not to list others? Have they done so so that you may have the right to reason so that you may say, "Behold, you see how we do it, and you have not done it?" It hurts and it can't be mentioned, it's rematchism. It's not rematchism, it's a reminder until that moment until you pay your political price for such reckless things. You can perform as theatrically here as you like. You can hate any gestures to show. The more hate you show for all the participants in this home, you show hatred for the citizens of Serbia, and the citizens of Serbia wanted to change. They voted for those changes. Hate for SNS shows hatred for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23771	Mr. Babic, I didn't interrupt you since you had the right to be the head of the parliamentary group, so this was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23772	The truth works, a thousand times the repeated lie in your heads becomes true, but that doesn't change the fact that you've said a series of false things right now that you're so used to right now, you're saying it by automatism. Our government didn't sign anything, Mr. Granny. The only one who signed was your government. It's easy to check. Not to quote the statements of President Nikolic and Vice President Vukic, who finally, after the tornado of your untrues, found that nothing was signed. You're the only one who signed it, no one else. We didn't sign anything, and we've already repeated it here several times in this assembly where we've submitted regular reports, unlike your authority that doesn't think of it. I don't like to talk about this subject because essentially it just shows your inconsistency, not ours. Every time you give me such a fine ball for love, and you know that this topic is not at all important for this part of the agenda, not for this sitting right now, not for anything, but in this desire to show that they were worse and even traitors of the Serbian people before you, you are not afraid of anything. It's time for you to stop doing that and tell this people what you've done. That is the essence. Tell the people what you did in 14 months. Here, sits behind you a colleague who can say the same, but he won't nod, unlike you, because he knows, because he lives there and he knows what you've done. You sent a man in a black van to divide people into good and bad Serbs. That's what you did. That's true. Don't say such things and abuse the pay phone by making false and talking about hate again. No one hates you, no one hates you, no one hates your client, no one hates your president. We bring out what the citizens are pressuring, and they don't have a chance to tell anyone anywhere, because you've closed it all down for this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23773	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23774	Madam Chairman, I appeal to the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. I think you violated this article when Mr. Milivojevic spoke, because he hurt the dignity of the National Assembly several times. Truth be told, you warned him at the end of the second part of the third part. He said we were drones. This is not the only way to offend us as MPs, which is a lack of democratic culture of the MP. So that's where he really said the word. In the end, he's very little that his colleagues have destroyed the present for these four, five years, the future of our children, and if they had stayed just a year in power, they would have destroyed our roots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23775	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23776	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't hate any of you. On the contrary, I love Professor. Atlagic. I like him like a man. I love you too, Mr. Granny. I like every man who breathes gout air, but now it looks much less like you're breathing gourmet air and more chlorinated water in the pools, but I still like you. I love you. But, you know, don't use hard words - hate. Don't take every criticism as hate. If you expect us to be who you are when Alexander Vukic arrives, then nod your head every time he says something, the Democratic Party is not the Ephet of Ephenda. That's what the Turkish Sultan had the Efet Efendi, whatever he says, they nod their heads. Let us think with that head, not nod. Let us tell you everything we think and feel. Don't call the ratings, hide behind the ratings. Hide behind something else, not behind the ratings. But whenever you go out to the public, you put the results of the work and what you've done in front of you. Rating's a tricky thing. You know the kind of ratings we had before the May elections, so I don't talk about it. Not to mention other political parties that had a great rating. What does rating mean? Whenever Alexander Vukic's rating rises 2%, the standard in Serbia falls 50%. That's not good for Serbia. Maybe it's good for you, and for this country, it's not good. So don't expect me to nod you or accuse me of hating you. I'm a Christian from Kruševac, you're from Vranjska Banja, at least we can love and respect each other. We don't have to think the same thing. You may be in pain with the truth I'm saying, but don't feel hateful. What I'm telling you, I'd better tell you than the citizens of Serbia in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23777	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23778	The only rating that is possible, recognizable and appreciated is the election. Say one election over the past year, over the past 14 months, where the citizens have said it in that tone and in that way how would you like to present, is that what the citizens said in Zemun maybe? Is that what the citizens said in Zajcar where you didn't even cross the census? What right do you have to say that? Two percent increase in ratings, I don't know how much the standard of citizens falls. You're the only one who recognizes it. Citizens in the election democratically, where they should show what they think of politicians and our policies, show a trend of 40 and something, 50% of your 3% in Zajecar. What's that? That's an insufficient sample for you. That's not where people live. There's someone else living there. That's not where Serbs live. Who lives there? The media appearance, for the past week I have been a guest on three shows, of the three shows in two were representatives of the Democratic Party. I'm not saying that's not how it's supposed to be. You need to hear both sides, and an alternative. There was Mr. Djuric in one, and I know you'll use this as a right to replication. It should be like that, but don't put some other glasses on people in Serbia again and say, "No, it's not like that when they open the paper, they see that you're on each other's side when the TV comes on, so they see that you're always there." What media darkness are you talking about? You didn't answer me again. Is Mr. Ceran, based on... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... This law reported and did everything he was supposed to do? Cvijo Babic, were Belgrade directors elected after the competition, or by party key? Whose directors are these? Who set them up? Dragan Gilas and the Democratic Party, not the competition and profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23779	Thank you. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament, Mira Petrovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23780	Chairman, I really think we should bring this discussion to that current she should have. With all this respect and the biggest ruling and largest opposition parties, this is already crossing simply... Unsuitable for us to now talk about who such a rating is, who expects it to be. Let's go back, as far as I know, the subject of our agenda is the Public Property Act. The minister's here. Let's finish the job. I really don't think any of us are done here. Believe me, I have a bunch of obligations that await me. Let's finish this. You keep letting them conduct their conversations in the way that suits them. I know they're watching us, but I think there's a Rules of Procedure, so let's stick with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23781	Mrs. Petrovic, I can't agree with you. The President decides on the right to the replica. I believe this debate has led to the need for MP groups to replicate each other. I think it's so good. Can you ask us to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure if you wish? (From the city, Maja Petrovic: I want to. We're going to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23782	I'd end up with a respected Madam Chairman. I'd appreciate the appeal and co-workers from PUPS, but also the other colleagues. I'm just gonna tell you this. That's what I told you earlier in the discussion, and now I'm gonna do it again. Don't say it; that's what you've been doing, and that's what you've been doing. You said you were better than us, more valuable, more organized, smarter, and just tell the citizens of Serbia that you were doing what you said. Now it turns out it was pre-election fairy tales, that it was a fog that scattered the moment you saw the chairs. That promise has nothing to do with it. You choose by party lines, by party functions, by party staff. You're praising yourself. We don't have any of Alexander Vukic's direct views of the EPS director at public meetings. We'd have some if you made a decision to replace him, because of those 15m euros paid under the law. Then we'd know that you're putting order in the country first of all, not by arresting the Cerran who solved the biggest affairs in the Colubari. So let's get back to work, your job. You do your job, and we criticise you in a way that we think is good for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens because of the way you don't work. So you think you're doing a job, we're confident you're not doing a job. That confidence with us is shared by the citizens of Serbia. You'll see him when you wake up the first night after the election. I'll be the first to call you on the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23783	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23784	I'll repeat until someone understands the question. The Law amending the law on public property, is it respected for party personnel of DS and Dragan Gilas in the city of Belgrade? Has this law been consummated by Cvijo Babic, director of "Belgrade Voda and sewerage"? Has this law been respected by Ceran in the "Colubary", now in the GSP? Did this law befit the people you without a contest with a direct party line in the city of Belgrade? Maybe not you personally, but Dragan Gilas certainly is. Then you can legislate so you can comment on anyone's short-sighted views.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23785	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23786	Each of your performances is crowned by that air-based imaginary rating you live on in an illusion. I look forward to every performance of yours, every nervousness, every one of your jokes, your noises, your anger, and everything you've sent to the DS. In the city of Belgrade, we followed the law, all the provisions and everything was done by law. I'm also asking you, are you ready with the same heat, shouting and calling for a rating, Zajcar and I don't know what to say about that same Zajcar? Are you ready to talk about how your mayor is? The president of the city's assembly immediately paid his television money? Why don't you yell at us like that? I know it's hard for you now, but you don't have a handkerchief, so you have to yell. When you mention Gilas, mention Mirkovic, mention Spacious in "Jugo Import", mention half of Batajnica and Zemun that you transferred to "Jugo Import", SDPR, mention who was admitted from them to the competition and which car they came to work for. Please mention that the son of the director of Railways has been working there since recently, going to the railway truck to work. Why don't you mention it? Which doesn't mention a number of other companies. Where you walked in, the grass didn't grow. Only adversaries grow. There's no money. There are no public procurements. There's no job. There's no Virman. He's got travel orders. Why don't you say so? What do you think you're gonna tell us here about the things you read in your tabloids so we can keep our mouths shut? You think we're afraid to quote Mr. Wolfie? We're not afraid of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23787	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23788	I'll bring a handkerchief tomorrow, and maybe my colleagues will give me a pack of paper towels to give you, because you need to wipe out tears for the past few times, these very sources, the spending of funds, the boasting years ago. You think now that you've said everything, and I'll remind you, the same pay phone said that no charges were filed, that no charges were confirmed, and then when the Special Court report came on organised crime charges against the 180 charges filed, it's not valid. Don't remind us of the ugly past. We, ours, everything we did wrong, paid in the election. Well, he can't. Qualify to talk about something. You call your colleagues living in Kosovo and Metohija. Why did you vote for the Brussels Agreement? Why did you vote, if it's so terrible, if it's so bad? But unlike you, Mr. Stefanovic, we're not going to talk one thing in Brussels, the other in Moscow, the third in Washington, the fourth in Belgrade, the fifth in holding a saw blade when the bozos are down, and the sixth in thinking. That never. What we say, we stick to, both in Belgrade and in every other destination. Again, you are avoiding the question – did Mr. Cvijo Babic write down the property, or according to the Public Property Act, he respected everything, vice president of the DS City Committee? Did Ceran, the vice president, or what, when DS, did he do it in the GSP? Did the others do it? Why don't you talk about it? Why don't you answer that question? Don't worry about my handkerchief. I'll bring it to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23789	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23790	Article 27. I'm sorry to have to call on that member, but I think we really went too far. The 15th time I hear, I absolutely don't know who Cvijo Babic is, and I don't care while there's water in Belgrade. I'm wondering if there's any water on the level. Please disable this further debate. The second thing, there is no right for the head of the SNS parliamentary group to say to any elected MP – qualify to talk about something. All MPs here have been elected and qualified by the electoral lists on which the electoral threshold has been crossed, thus entering parliament and all MPs have the right to speak in this assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's get back to the agenda. I will not point to this strange promise by Mr. Babic that tomorrow he will bring something to Mr. Stefanovic. I think tomorrow, unfortunately, the assembly is not working, and this is due to the poor organisation of the work and actions of Mr Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23791	We're really breaking the line right now and I'm asking you to get back on the agenda. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, politics is a public business. In the elections, we are running to do this public work and to manage public property and budgets, financial resources and property in this business. Today we extend the deadline for a year for that property to be entered. Even when we proposed and defended this law, we didn't blame the previous government for not taking advantage of a year and a half of the laws they had brought in that property themselves. And today they hold power over the Vojvodina almost 70 percent of the municipalities. I don't see they've made any progress in these last two years. If the deadline extends to register public property, if extended to the current government, it extends to the former, or local authorities, various coalitions, so I am kind of surprised by the amount of bile that has been spilled here because of the concern shown for public property. Public property, public property was indeed the object of prey and greed and greed. I can give examples, for example. The Council's report on the fight against corruption, Mrs Baraic, which spoke of arching the public property in favour of private businesses. It is no secret that in the past government public property was used for private business officials who were obliged to take care of public property, not private property. It's not a secret, there's a 2011 SBPOK 29 report, which says that public officials, top party officials and public officials in our largest city, in our capital, have concluded as public officials business with their private companies. This is what the Public Property Report and the SBPOK Report says, that the private company of the leading man in our capital and the leaders of one party, that as a official, he had done business with public institutions and public enterprises, let's say, printed materials for the City Assembly by his private company "Big print", so the material was printed to the Belgrade Library, so it was printed for the Cultural Centre of Belgrade, so it was printed for the Youth House, so for most of the theatres, for the Tourist Organization. It is a report by the SBPOK, which says it is the party leader of a powerful party that is currently not in the state of power, but is in power in many local self-government and is still in power in Belgrade, not that it did not sign up for public property, but that very public property was the subject of prey, greed, defamation, as it was said here. I want to support this kind of performance, as it says in that report, that, apart from what I've listed, I've also done business with state-owned public enterprises, all I'm going to say is "Telekom" and that as a public official in private affairs, not enrolling public property and, without distinction, it's most likely to have been earned by two companies from 2005 to 2012, a total of $1 billion and 87 million, which has been translated into dinars over 120 billion. I think when citizens chose us to do public work, that we got paid, that we were supposed to keep public property, not make our own private business out of it. In just one year of income, only on two companies of 15, from public property to private was 12,955,974,000 dinars, which is 154,237,000 dollars. And today his fellow workers are talking about some prey, deviousness, the greed of the new government in matters of public property. I really don't know what we're supposed to say about chaos, chaos, hopelessness and the state without a chance, which we've found with no chance for our citizens. Bill Gates was a rich man, he did international jobs, he made billions, and then he decided to share it with the poor. It was the other way around. In public business, they've made billions of dollars from the poor and it doesn't occur to them that at least one part of the public property that's been poured into their private pockets over public functions, which they used to do for private businesses, return to the poor citizens where they took that money, leaving thousands and thousands of people out of work thanks to greed, grampity and greed. In the end, I'm very offended by my relatives and friends who have been to Kosharam. Here's the story of Kosharam, the man they weren't supposed to give a gun to in 1999 because they didn't know which side they were going to shoot. Now I see what's the difference between koshar and hens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23793	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23794	Indeed with the final appeal and the request to return to the agenda topic. I really thank my co-worker from PUPS. I don't know if he was seen almost in our congregation. Every time I repeat to my colleagues that we don't have to answer these things, because the more they repeat it, the worse it is for those who bring them out. No one lives anymore in poor and ruined Serbia wants to hear about how successful the past government has been, but wants to hear how successful this government will be and what you will do and what you have done in 14 months. You've done a little bit. You've done almost nothing. I'm still saying there's not a single charge of organized crime in the common crimes. I repeat that one more time. I stand behind it, as I am saying in the quote of Mr. Vukic here, that the BIA has filed 89 charges, and it is known that only the prosecution can do so. So these are things we need to talk about in an argument. It seems to me that the inappropriate and the things we left behind long ago because it's not convenient that on charges like this and lies we come out with our accusations and reminders of their past and their apartments and their government while some of us wear uniforms for the second time. It's a shame to throw things at each other, because we assume that we all love this country equally and that we're ready for it to do everything and less. If you think you stamp people like that with the known accusations that we're thieves, criminals and everything else you tell us every day, you've gone gentlemen deep into the swamp of your illusions and nonsense that you repeat every day and that's definitely the beginning of your end. Understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23795	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23796	I thank the chairman. Every time representatives of a political party mention the koshars by comparing the koshars and the hens should know that they mock the crying of widows, lelek orphans, the black scarves of mothers who left their children there. Black was a folk costume in Krusevec at a time when you ruled this country, and now you laugh at that period and compare baskets and hens. It's a real shame. I didn't expect that from anyone in this House. I expected someone to put their head down and look at the floor when they mention Koshare. Whether someone was allowed to give me a gun or not, for the traitors of Serbia, it was enough for me to stick and I showed it on October 5th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23797	MP Vladimir Cvian, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23798	Dear Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know where this debate went today to fight in this way. I don't think there was any need for that. If anyone in front of the SNS said a word, I apologize. I apologize to the MPs of the DS. I expect the same apology when I hear some stories about whoever was wearing a badge and who was working and who wasn't working and who were drones or who was pressing the judiciary, and today I hear at least six times and I don't shut up, and now I won't. I have now reported that the MPs of the main opposition party openly say this one is guilty, and this one is innocent. If we're going to establish some behavioral parameters in the congregation, then let's set them up together. I apologize on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group. Although I've never worn any badges or anything in my life, I don't feel responsible, but I respect those who are. Respect yourself. Is that so hard? Today in the Assembly, we are discussing a technical amendment to the law. Every time our assembly turns into the exact same debate. I don't think it contributes to the reputation that we are growing and greater in citizens and, if possible, to end it. I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23799	Mr. Cvian and I would appreciate it, but I have a registered Mr. Marijan Risticevic for replication. It would be good if I gave him my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how the previous speaker got the right to reply at all, but that's the discretionary right of the chairman, and I'm not going to get into it. I was talking about that part of my family and neighbors suffered serious wounds on the Kosharam, defending themselves from those they had seriously supported, and since they were seriously supporting them, I mean the attackers, our army couldn't give them the gun but gave them the shovel. Today someone is trying to object to my lack of patriotic attitude, which is almost unacceptable. So I haven't said for a moment what's been misread, or what's been glued to me. I also expected that after my exposure as a party to the left, social justice, etc. They say what is not true of what I have said by saying that whoever advocates social justice in this general poverty, by ruling resources, public property and property, gets a billion in six or seven years. I can only show everyone a financial report for two out of 15 companies. It's all I've talked about in general how in a certain way through public functions, thanks to greed, grammism can be made through public functions and private firms, and you don't have, unlike Bill Gates, any sense of paying back some of the money to the poor. That's what I was talking about and thank you for the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23801	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23802	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. Mrs. Kovac, you have unfortunately allowed the previous speaker to accuse people in this country or part of parliament, which is even worse that they were quinslins, that they supported the bombing of this country, that they supported war crimes and that, among other things, they were responsible for the deaths of some people. I think it is inadmissible, that it offends this House's dignity and that it seriously endangers security in this country. It's a special kind of hypocrisy, and it comes from people who, after that same bombing, went into a coalition with those I assume are accusing them of these things. It's on the side. I think it threatens the security of today's state summit, which holds negotiations with Western countries, and that some lunatic in this country can base someone on being a traitor and who knows what to do. We've been through this a thousand times. I ask you to stop him from getting into such trouble again in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23803	I can only repeat that all MPs bear responsibility for what they say. In your presentations, please take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Stefanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23804	Article 108. You hurt the Rules of Procedure because you allowed it without warning, it's not a matter of whether anyone has the right to state their opinion, absolutely yes, but it's about the border being crossed in every sense, and you haven't responded. It is not enough to wait for the gentleman to finish and move on, but it seems to me that the chairman must react and give a warning of the most monstrous accusation that people sitting next to them supported NATO's bombing of Serbia. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: she didn't tell you. It is. Look, please, the record and you'll see that a very clear, direct reference to us was that we supported NATO bombing. Of course, you know that there is also a dose of personal insult, since many of us were in uniform defending our country. Don't, please, as chairman, let such people in this assembly play very dangerous things. Tomorrow they will return to this country such a way of thinking, writing and speech, and then we will count ourselves on the street who is a true Serb, who is not, who is a traitor, who is not. It's for the protection of all the MPs sitting here. Please, once again I appeal to you, the thing is that you must warn the MPs. Today, some colleagues have received much less notice. I think it's just and right to give a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23805	I have to admit, I have to look at the stenographic notes. I didn't understand it that way. The word is made by Parliamentarian Vladimir Cvian, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23806	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of 104 and 107 have been injured. I think it's inadmissible to let it be interpreted now, and by some free method, which we may have learned in the third grade of high school, I can't remember what that method is called, what someone said. I listened very carefully to the speaker the head of this parliamentary group pointed to. That's not how I experienced his speech. Now we are, or you gave him two minutes to talk on the subject. Should I now, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, open yesterday's records and videos, and see why one of the MPs of another party showed a middle finger and if he showed it to a colleague? That certainly wouldn't be correct, but don't let anyone else do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23807	All MPs, if they report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, have two minutes to explain this injury. It's up to the chairman to give an explanation. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23808	I just want to keep going the way Mr. Cvian spoke. Article 107 has been injured. Simply, with all the respect of all the arguments, on the one hand and on the other hand, with all the respect of those who wore one kind of badges and other kind of badges, which they carried in history, I think that today is neither the time nor the place to talk, to open those issues, and especially when it is in Serbia's interest to help this law and laws similar to this to help Serbia move towards the EU as we have all defined together. Do not open more topics that do not honor many, transferring that someone else is guilty. Please, as chairman, stop this and really get the discussion back. I'm going to do one more thing Mr. Cvian did, although I didn't carry any, or any other badges, and I was in the coalition with the SRS Beocin, with the DS in Novi Sad... (President: Mr. Shane, you asked me to introduce order, so I ask you to finish. I'd like to apologize to everyone for everything that's been going on so far and end it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23809	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23810	I think I'm the last of the DS on this list, and that's what I'd like to conclude this discussion. We're not voting for this law for a reason. We've seen through this debate, during this day, that this government, not only has it done nothing in the past 14 months, to bring order into public property. We tried during this debate to show that this wasn't just a mere technique, as someone said, that it didn't matter, my God, six months up and down. This is about a sector where several hundred thousand people work and it's about the very important resources of our country, which are not optimally used today. Behind all this is one important policy of decentralisation. I believe that we have clearly shown here, not only that the government cannot hide behind anyone but behind its own unhappiness. There was no need for any great ideology, some quantum leaps. This is a law that needs to be applied. The law should be applied by making every public company, every public utility, in the months that come, if you have a majority for this, and it will be without us, in the next 12 months, to work, to first determine who is actually responsible in the government, because instead of the finance minister we were expecting today, the Minister for Regional Development came. This is not directly his ingenuity, although it indirectly follows the question of public utility companies. We see that in the government, it is primarily the minister of industry, that it is talking about some concepts that have no legal basis, such as the personal maps of public enterprises. I think all of this should go back to one normal legal framework and the government forms one, let's say, interdepartmentary group, if one minister can't do it alone and we can see by the end of the year how far you've come, not to be criticised, because it's hard to be worse than the current situation where the minister here was not able to give us a single name of a company that ended this job. It's important to do it as soon as possible and as best as possible. To remind you, this provision should ensure that the founder of every public enterprise at national level and public utility at the level of municipalities and cities is made known and said – this is property, mobile, immovable, and even property that exists today in an immaterial sense, these are patents, which belong to me, i.e. I'm a user today, but by law, we think it's appropriate for me to be registered as the owner. This dialogue is not just a matter of one party or another, this dialogue is of interest to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the last 60 years since Serbia left the Second World War, we have had a gradual accumulation of property and an extension of the subject of public enterprises' functioning. That's right. Bureaucracies everywhere, even with us, tend to grow, and we didn't have a mechanism to ensure that this process was arranged and to find an optimal measure of anything. Why? Because during socialism, everything was social, and then, during the rule of the SPS and the radicals, in the second part of their government, because local self-government had different political colors, there was extreme centralisation of assets, extreme centralisation of finance. Here we are, for ten years it took us, and here in 2011 there were two key laws – the Law on Public Property which in a clear way returned legally based on the level of the province. Today there have been stories about it, and we have seen that not all agree on the optimal volume of the province's assets, and in Kosovo there is a specificity of the current situation. That was extremely difficult to do. We've got the law, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it. You have the support of the DS to enforce this law into action. I think we hit that point of balance in 2011 that can satisfy all legitimate interests. I think it's very important to do this. This is the political part of the story, but there is the economic part, and that is that the founder will be able to do this law, and not some extra measures of ID cards, which is conducted by a small group of advisors around the economy, who are here today, and tomorrow they are not, there must be a foundation in the law and say, no, the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept that the railways have so many countries, it does not accept, it is something we will inform ourselves about, it does not accept that the EPS has these secondary activities and that property, it is not necessary, then it will be able to take that property, and to use it in an optimal way, issue, sell or what will be better done beyond the framework of these public enterprises. On the other hand, public enterprises, public utility companies, will no longer be in a position to seek the support of their founder for all loans. At this moment of extremely difficult financial situations, opportunities to enter into negotiations with creditors and to say – yes, in the previous legal framework of these public enterprises could not offer you as collateral mortgage of their own property, today they can. Please take this property as collateral, and we will remove and remove the obligation of the city's budget, the budget of the municipality, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Here is one way, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, one idea that we give to this majority, since there are not many, how to reduce by several hundred million euros the sovereign guarantee of the Republic of Serbia and not by increasing the framework of duty may reduce the level of debt or use of such a new framework, to launch some projects that can trigger economic growth, whether agriculture or infrastructure. I will conclude with one remark, and that remark is not politically soaked. I think we proved here that this government doesn't know how to operate the system. I think we proved it today. But what's very interesting is that today we haven't heard the plan of how they're going to do it, we haven't seen what quarter of what company you're going to go to, what mechanisms you're going to provide. Now here's a remark that might apply to another government. This article, which is now being amended by this law, is Article 82. When we made this law, we wanted to have a very strong incentive for public and public utility companies, to plead and to say during a period of two years – what property they needed for their function. It's not true there are no criminal provisions. It exists and you are actually moving the deadline, offering to move the deadline, precisely because this "punishment mechanism" is not to be used, which is that by official duty these assets are entered as state property, not to go into other people's hands, but to tell public enterprises and public utility companies – if you haven't done your job, if you haven't entered the dialogue with the founder, please. That means you don't need that property. What are we saying? We find that the public sector in the republic, in the province, at the city level, thinks that this provision has no credibility. They didn't get too excited because in two days they could lose any element of one asset that they needed to provide for them to do their job. So much for this dialogue, between those who exercise power at a given moment and those who are in the public sector, where apparently someone thinks they are in the advantage. Because of that, it seems to me, it is my last suggestion in the interest of all of us here in the Assembly and beyond in our country, that we should think carefully about how this provision will be implemented, but its lesson is that the public sector of Serbia does not believe that the state is stronger than it is. That's why I think that, with what we see, from the non-implemented elements of the Law on Public Enterprises, because this department is still not being implemented, I think that if we really want to reform this sector, go back to that question and see, with all that we have now, which perhaps additional mechanisms, democratic ones, we have to use, that the public sector doesn't see itself as a country in the country, that they don't feel alienated, that they don't think that they, because they're entrusted with some management resources on behalf of all of us, that it's simply their country, their profit and their ability. It seems to me that this exceeds any government and any majority at any given moment, and I think what we are experiencing today, I repeat, because of the lack of work and zeal of this government, is still a deeper story and shows that the public sector will also have to deal with the years to come. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23811	Thank you. The word has Minister Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23812	Mr Djelic, the government knows that it manages this area, as it knows it manages and introduces order in all other areas in the Republic of Serbia, and this has shown countless examples since the time of the government's constitution, after the May 2012 elections. Not only that, and not only in direct, but in indirect connection with the draft amendments to this law, the government will take all measures to restructure public enterprises, especially in the part of the huge inherited debt. You yourself have made an assessment that this is a $6.3 billion debt or a euro debt in large public systems. This is also the subject of an analysis by the current government of the Republic of Serbia and in the part of a separate debt analysis for each company, a special restructuring policy will be conducted. The first results are already visible through the example of JAT, which through a special model of forming a joint venture, with the restructuring of the old debt inherited from your time, managed to find a strategic partner. Chaos has also been found in other areas, in the area of privatisation that indirectly led to problems in its own relations, there was no point today, and it is a very important topic. Also, through a law that was on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament several days ago, it concerns hundreds of illegal objects inherited, especially after 2000. This government is also taking steps through the Law on Legalisation and this is the subject of an indirect relationship with the Law on Public Property through the corresponding measures of both laws. Also, the government will take steps to amend the Law on Planning and Construction, also with an indirect link to the Public Property Act, because everywhere we strive to do what you were talking about, but during your term of office you failed to implement, which is that, essentially, the balance sheet is cleared, and the balances of property through a clear distinction of public property from the property belonging to public enterprises and their dependent societies. Once again, I would like to invite all Members of Parliament to support this bill in the voting day, following the debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23813	Thank you. Mr. Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23814	Thank you. Mr. Mirovicu, you are such a very indirect minister. Simply, this is not your portfolio, and I must say that today we have not heard a direct answer to a large number of specific questions from the MPs. You're telling us about collaterals, indirect things, related activities, but you didn't tell us which companies didn't deliver the documents, why, which they delivered, whether it was quality, what you decided, you didn't tell us when, now that you're looking for an extension of the deadline, you're going to do this task that you're giving you, because obviously, the only thing you're doing here is to extend the deadline. You didn't propose any fundamental change to the Public Property Act, so indirectly, as you say, I see you support it, although you didn't vote for it, if I remember correctly, two years ago. I think you've set a very bad example - JAT. What kind of solution is that when you transfer to the state all the debts that JAT ever made? Let me tell you a little secret, since you don't do it, a lot of that debt has been coming out of Titus's time. Mr. Mirovic, give us at least one clear explanation. I would ask you only one very modest promise. Can you, in front of us and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, promise to deliver to us a contract signed between "Etihad" and "JAT", since today you have confirmed that it is here and that it is public property, that it is also how the engaged budget of the Republic of Serbia is and that is why we in the DS do not understand why you are so shy. You're saying the plane's about to take off, and that plane, as far as we know from civil aviation, hasn't passed any checks. As far as I'm concerned, the JAT people, none of those destinations that are scheduled are... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's not formally adopted. So, since you're talking about this public company, will you, Mr. Mirovic, will you deliver to us on Sunday, because we'll see you on Sunday, or a few days more if you need to copy... (President: Thank you, Mr. Djelic. )......................................................................................................... That contract and let's see how great you handled it. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23815	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23816	Minister, let's try to sum up this debate somehow. So, one of your key arguments why you can't even tell us the names of some of the republican public enterprises that didn't meet this obligation you find in this law. However, I will remind you of the provisions of article 82, which in one word changes in one attitude. I remind you of the existing provision of Article 5 of that law, which says: "The registration of the property of a public undertaking and of a company of capital on the immovable property referred to in Article 1 cannot be carried out without the written consent of the founders etc." So, I'm asking you, there are 35 such companies, is there any record in the government of which of these companies they asked for this consent and to whom has the consent been issued? So, you have a record and you tell us which companies the consent has been issued, so we're going to negatively eliminate which companies have not submitted that request. Then you will be able to tell us if the Railways did it, whether it did EPS, whether they did some of the other public enterprises, which are property measuring hundreds of millions of euros, and often much more. The other thing you were talking about is that it's practically gone, that's what you said, part of it and Mr. Cvian when he said that the amendments to the law were technical, practical consequences. Even the reason for the law says there are no new costs. That's not true either. Some of these companies, and we'll see, are waiting for the measures you're announcing for Monday, will eventually go into the process of some kind of property transformation. To enter the privatisation process is essential to know what is actually the property of the company offered to someone. That's why this JAT example isn't good. I think it's good that there's an AIR Serbia, but I don't think that this model that may have been inevitable in this situation, after decades of destruction, the collapse of JAT, the non-modernization, will be good and will not be applicable to any other company. We're going to suffer a lot of damage because of it. The third thing you were talking about. When you talk about the accumulated losses or debts they have, on the other hand, public enterprises, I cannot agree with you that the previous government or only the previous government is the biggest culprit. Anyway, it's big. I voted against all guarantees for "Srbigas" and for all other public enterprises. But, Mr. Mirovicu, your political party too has sworn that "Serbiagas" year after year is an enormous loss. When you talk about the difference between the import price and the price at which "Srbigas" sells to users or other distributors, you forget that you supported the Energy Agreement in this Assembly. You're forgetting that you don't want to throw the middleman out of gas imports today. Energy Minister says the government is not considering revising the Energy Agreement. Some parts of this property that we're talking about here. Here, we care if “Serbiagas” has done what is required of him by law. This is also important because of the international projects that "Srbigas" is entering. Not just with them, but with many other companies. Why is it so important for us to have these few businesses? Because I think, here, Mr. Mirovic, you don't have to confirm to me, and I'm sure you intimately agree with me, that the current director of Railways cannot understand what the concept of this law is and what is really required of him. I absolutely think he doesn't have the expertise to understand something like that. That's why I'm wondering if this company has fulfilled its obligations. There, that's the question. Now I've pointed out to you a provision of a law that confirms that you have a record. If you don't have it now, I'll see you here on Sunday. The several tens of thousands of euros in new costs for Serbian citizens were due to the fact that, for example, this Assembly, with the disorganization of the ruling coalition and non-coordination with the government, did not work in September and did not work yesterday. So let's at least use that day to clarify these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23817	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23818	I'm reporting for an officer. 27th and 98th. Rules of Procedure. Namely, you are required to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. The fact is that, under Article 98, the President of the National Assembly gives a word to the MPs in accordance with the order provided by their parliamentary group and until the total time of the debate set out for the parliamentary group. So far, the practice here in the National Assembly has been that the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, if there is still time available for the parliamentary group, has the opportunity to make the most of that time. I don't think the DS parliamentary group has used the time, Mr. Djelic needs another minute to speak, and you interrupted him. In this regard, he is the last on the list and the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and I believe that there is a possibility, especially that we have tried not to take advantage of the time available to the parliamentary group, and in terms of practice so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23819	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. I understand. So you didn't follow well. Mr. Djelic was granted the right to a replica and took advantage of his two minutes. The right to a replica cannot be extended, although the parliamentary group has the rest of the time. He can sign up now. It's only now that we're with Article 96. When he spoke, he spoke based on replication. Please follow the session so you can advertise a valid Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djelic, would you like to sign up for your word? (Božidar Djelic, from the post: I expect the minister to answer the question. ) The minister did not answer your question. So, please, use your minutes and 30 seconds, if you like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23820	I'll say it again. Given that the government tells us every day about the fantastic agreement between Etihad and JAT, we only have one very simple question and ask the Minister's promise that in the days to come and according to the Public Information Act, i.e. With the law on the availability of information of public importance, I apologize for the error, deliver as representatives of citizens simply that contract. There's no reason to keep the contract between JAT and Etihad a secret. It's a public enterprise that should be able to deliver all its assets under this law. I guess we as citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the right to know what obligations the Republic of Serbia has in this agreement. We hear things, because we don't have the right information. It has been said to be extremely new planes, and some information suggests that some aircraft that are ten years old in Arizona are now preparing for Serbia. We do not know what are the obligations of the Arab Emirates and what are the obligations of the Serbian budget, how much money must be provided and what guarantees are. What happens if the joint venture doesn't make a profit? Who's gonna cover the debts? What does the budget of the Republic of Serbia correspond to? Does the Emirat side take any responsibility for anything? We don't have any information here. (President: Time. I'm done. They say it won't have much effect. According to the information we have, out of 1,300 JAT employees, only 200 will find a catch. If that's not true, go ahead and provide us with information on all this and we'll be grateful for it. You have to do it by law anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23821	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23822	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing it all day long, only in principle, on amendments, I repeat, one amendment to the Law on Public Property. Now is the time to really, as we say, sublime, draw the line and see what is really the essence of this law and once again take advantage of the opportunity to explain to all of us and the citizens who are watching this why this law is good and why the SNS will support it in the voting day. Several times I've been quoted here as saying that this is a law that brings technical change. Technically, that's true. So, there's only one word that changes. The possibility of certain provisions of this law being applied is delayed for another year. But I'll do it again, first as a lawyer, which is the point. So, the state of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has a whole series of moving and immovable things and various rights in ownership. The Republika Srpska Property Directorate should take care of that. Unfortunately, we've been witnessing that for the past few years, that wasn't exactly the case. But what's most important when we talk about real estate is that the rights to real estate should be entered in land books. Many times we have heard the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have also heard the competent ministers call on citizens to enter their properties, to make their facilities visible in this way, to make their level of legal certainty as high as possible, of course, only on a registered facility can credit be raised, or if the facility is not registered much harder to raise loans. Hypothetical loans, of course, can only go to registered facilities. Well, the same thing that applies to citizens is true of the state. In 2011, there was a Law on Public Property, not exactly the happiest law, but okay, better any law than no law. We have heard many suggestions today in which direction this law could change in the future. We listened very carefully, I believe, that the Minister, Mr Mirovic, also listened very carefully because one day we will have to change this law, too, in order to make more legal certainty and better know where the state property is and register that property. Until the time for this law to be amended, it was necessary to postpone it, or extend it to one provision for a year. It is also not true that citizens who are watching this transmission should know that the vast majority of public companies' directors have made their commitments and entered into land books in the way that it is legally a given property, or other rights to real estate that public enterprises have. The vast majority did so within two years, which was foreseen by a law that changes today. Of course, there is a certain amount of immovableity where the directors of public enterprises have not had the opportunity to enroll adequate rights, which should be looked again in the context of the fact that there have been both litigation and misunderstanding and could not always otherwise be determined exactly where the borders are, for example, state property compared to private, where the border line is. Very often, disputes were related to the issues of restitution and the issues of expropriation. Lawyers, lawyers, know from practice how many such problems were so that even apriors should not be criticised because the vast majority of directors of public enterprises and competent services, and not only the directors have done their job more than securely and fully in accordance with the law. Definitely at the time of the adoption of this law, during the previous term of the National Assembly in 2011 it was misjudged that a two-year period is sufficient. It was further designed to expire on 6 October of this year, which is Sunday, which can cause some problems in practice, especially when deadlines are too inclusive. For these reasons, the only reason the Government of the Republic of Serbia has now proposed is to postpone, to give the possibility, and certain rights to real estates belonging to public enterprises, to give a year's deadline for those rights to be entered. Technical law but a law that will contribute greatly to establishing a higher level of legal certainty. A law that will contribute to accurate, much more accurate knowledge of state property, to know exactly where this property is and to know exactly what rights are entered in land books. For this reason, in voting day, the SNS will, of course, support this law team before we heard today from Minister Mirovic that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is seriously considering changes and additions or the adoption of some brand new laws in this area and in line with European standards, in line with Serbia's interests, in line with citizens' interests. We were particularly pleased to hear that the provisions of the law concerning privatisation would also be revised from where a whole series of problems arise concerning the right to real estate and the registration of real estate rights, especially when it comes to state property. We are pleased to hear that some other law-abiding in this area will change, which is only proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing its job, that citizens recognise that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very responsible for accessing amendments to the law. We apologize again for how it turned out that we're going to have to work on Sunday. Those MPs who have a problem with this don't have to come on Sunday, but, of course, SNS MPs will be here and we'll vote for this law. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23823	Does Mr. Mirovic want to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23824	I owe Mr. Djelic a concrete answer to JAT's question. First, you can seek a contract in accordance with the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning. If in the contract, and I haven't read it, I'm not really connected to that area, there are some elements and confidentiality clauses. I suppose Mr. Djelic you've worked abroad for a long time to respect that kind of relationship between the Republic of Serbia, JAT and Etihad and that there will be no great hysteria about it. In particular, the matter is very clear. We'll get new planes, we'll have modern management, we'll have new commercial destinations. Accordingly, growth is expected and we will have a very high-quality social programme when it comes to this number of people who are likely not in full compared to the current number of employees of power to stay in the new company. That's what the government expects, actually predicts a new model and a new company. If that's how it's gonna be, Mr. Djelic, we'll see to it very soon when we get on that new plane and make the difference between the new plane and the old plane. When at the end of 2014 we compare profits with 2013 and the sum of profits that will be shown in the balance for this year. When we are at airports from Belgrade, to other destinations, we see that AIR Serbia is landing and when we confirm the announcements of expectations that there will be new destinations, and when we see a large number of those who, according to the model, will sign through the restructuring elements in line with the offer that the new management should offer about new severances. I suppose in that sense these people will be pleased and, of course, when we see the smiling faces of the new stewardess.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-04-0.u23825	Thank you. Since this was the final word of the minister, we do not open any further replicas in this section. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We continue our work on Sunday, October 6, at 10:00 p.m.
