ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18092	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 88. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, which states - if the president finds that at the beginning of the working day, or working day, at least 84 MPs are not present in the sitting room, the start of work is delayed by one hour. Since the meetings of the Assembly begin at 10.00 hours, and at 11.23 p.m., we determined that only then the ruling majority woke up and that it best paints why we had a red light on the European light, you should have put off the work of the Assembly within an hour, until the ruling majority's MPs woke up or at least told them that Vukic was coming to the Assembly at 11.30 p.m., so that they all came here in large numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18093	I must correct you, Mr. Milivoevich. You're wrong. I personally scheduled the National Assembly session today for 11.00 hours. So, not for 10.00 hours, how you informed the National Assembly. Second thing, you're right about the delay. So we didn't start at 11.00, we started at 11.20. I'm extremely sorry, and I apologize to the National Assembly for the delay, but don't think we slept. All vice presidents, National Assembly presidents and ministers were in Hall III on the first floor, where it was a session of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. I think it was very important and I didn't want to interrupt the Committee's session, because we've been considering UNICEF's objections to this law and we've made good and good conclusions, which we also give thanks to the Ministry for accepting most of it. We have significantly improved this law, so we have not lain, we have not slept, we have worked on the welfare of the children of this country. Mr. Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18094	Mr. President, I'm now advertising an injury to article 27. Rules of Procedure. Obviously, then you don't know how to organize the day, because then make a nice appointment at 12:00, so keep the boards from 10.00 to 9:00, whenever you want, but let's not be the hostages of your ignorance, I don't mean your own, but the ruling majority, that you don't know you're organizing the day. Plan on when the committee session will begin and when the assembly session will begin. On the other hand, the Assembly numbers 250 MPs. You boast that the ruling majority have 140 and the change of the MPs. Well, I guess that 140 from the ruling majority can get 84 down to the O.R. and the board upstairs can work uninterrupted. Still, I think it's about sleeping, because some of them haven't even taken off their pajamas yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18095	It was impossible for the session to begin and it was, I can't say, 250 MPs, because he didn't have anyone to start the session. All the vice-presidents who are members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the President of the National Assembly attended the meeting of the Committee. So, I agree. However, we started the session at 10.00 hours. I didn't expect the session to last that long. By the time we came to an end, the conclusions we had made were of sufficient quality that these additional 20 minutes had not caused tragic damage to the National Assembly sessions and that we had improved the Committee's session. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dubravka Filipovski, Miletic Mihajlović, Branko Ružic, Donka Banović, Radojko Obradović and Riza Halimi. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I have also invited the sittings to attend: Muhedin Fijuljanin and Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr. Zoran Kostic, Ljubisa Antonijevic, Vesna Fila, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Stupar and Prof. Dr. Ivica Radović, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Nevenka Novaković, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We continue the joint principled search on proposals for the law referred to in points 1 to 8 of the agenda. Dr Milet Poscurica, as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18096	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are continuing today the second day of working in double time, for which I have no clear reasons why you insisted until the end, but we have fulfilled that desire. It is likely that the message you send to those who are the consummations of these laws is, if parents are added together, richly and a third of Serbia. If so many participants in education, education and education are primary, middle and high, and then their parents, then indeed a large number of citizens are interested in the outcome of laws or content that legal proposals bring to Serbia. We are faced today in a debate and yesterday throughout the day almost with an identical set of objections about the law. The law didn't bring such tectonic disorders that would require I don't know what kind of hard words. The law, more or less, has officially or all of these laws together, except for this new one, which is now being introduced, the adult education law, implies some basic guidelines that we already had, which are in some way tailored, established. That the matter isn't finished speaking exactly and the reason why this session was late. There's always someone who'll eventually get a little salty and ask what else we can change. With all the respects of those who probably, and such an ambience in Serbia, we've created for a decade and more, that they can influence the creation of the law, that they know the suggestions, and some of them I've looked at, and as far as the linguistic changes are concerned, whether they're going to put this or that on, really unethically, and I don't know how long it would take to end. I'm not a member of that committee so I can say that there, but generally I think we have to have one level of self-respect, even according to those who wrote the law, according to what we're legally carrying, and that's enough compared to agreeing to every change required of us. The law also passed a public debate. True, it was certainly not imagined in the way that it used to be, when there were professional associations and high school and high school, when the selection of school executives, the director at least depended politically, when there was no political feudal vertical that exists today quite certainly. If the minister holds at least two mandates, it is likely that there are vertically appointed people of interest to implement or legal proposals to interpret with less or more resistance, with less or more plasticity. Now, on the other hand, the pandan is saying the union's uninterrupted demands to change something, not even polishing their side that what they're looking for should be done that way. Of course, there's always truth somewhere in the middle, and it's not that simple. It is not easy in Serbia where the strategy is what it is. I don't have a very big confidence in the borderless odym, because I know who wrote all that strategy, and that usually most of those people who advocated one terrible, fundamental reform and a fundamental blow, and that was high education when it went into the Bologna process. What are the adverse consequences or consequences of this discussion, we will see later during the debate on the law. There are more of these specifics that will affect what the law will look like to us. They're all being questioned and it took the ministry or the one who wrote the law to find some arithmetical environment. I think you've managed to find that modus in it. What we're not going to do right now is just praise what you've done well is a natural way of acting as our parliamentary group that has brought with it a warrant and a promise to the people that they will change. We don't see any changes in this law that have happened but also if we look closely at the essence that the law should be apart from these technical and technological, administrative-berocratic changes is in the course of the plan and the programme. There we cannot implement party policy because the bodies that do so certainly do not contain any member of the SNS. It should not be a party policy as a party, but as an idea that reformist laws and reform attitudes are needed. We can do this indirectly through our departments, but these people are less and less foreign in other ministries. There is a stalking way of passing laws and writing where you will have the final consequence and final judgment if something is not well carried, as a rule, always the political majority, the party majority responsible for the functioning of the government. Fortunately, again, I say there are no terrible deviations that would cost us no political rating because we didn't have a formal opportunity to participate more closely. The most formal opportunity where we can state our position is the debate on committees and in parliament. It can only be an explanation that we are doing it within double time to discuss it, but we have not written amendments to show that we are just trying to make some changes, but we are going to listen to all those amendments that definitely and finally confirm the spirit of parliamentary life. The debate on laws suggests that whoever passes walking through cities, NGOs and various organisations, however, finally matures in parliament. That's fortunately good, and the minister said on the board, probably now on the other board, that any rational request for amending the law would be accepted. It was in the discussion yesterday, and I believe it's positive. I'm going to elementary school. It's a set of changes, I won't say cosmetic changes, they're formally introduced that a lot is covered, often something that is unrealistic and that had to meet someone's criteria, let's say, like those of UNICEF who read sentences, the importance of words and interpretation. That's where we had to put the same conditions no matter where education takes place in school, whether it's isolated or primary, how far away it is and how safe it is for a student. All of us sitting here know it's not the same to teach elementary school in Starry and some out-of-town elementary school in the village. It is a curricula and a program of the same, I sincerely hope it is and there is no difference, but conditions and equality do not exist. The probability that someone will really be able to have the right to achieve distance education or home education at the basic level of education exists, it is legally introduced and no one has anything against it, but how operational it will be, what kind of parental requirements and what rigorous control they will be entrusted with. After the adoption of the Law on Health Care of Patients' Rights, one not to mention the psychopath went and wherever the doctor came across that he wasn't willing to file a report for the Lincoln and the protector. He went to the DA's office, and the prosecutor's afraid of reform, so he called all the doctors and asked what it was about. He doesn't understand if you report 20 doctors that there's something wrong with you, not that there's something wrong with the system. Obviously, by giving some broad opportunities, we're going to create conditions that someone really insists on wanting the child to be educated remotely, or that he has some kind of home treatment. Children who are on long-term treatment should be helped to realize the programme and in the Health Protection Act it was, so it's compatible and I have nothing to comment on and add. It's a good thing you're going to an inclusive education system, which is what children with special needs are involved in the normal school system. It is one and a European tradition against which we have nothing. This is good and it allows the number to be moved from the absolute number of students who go, especially if they will have special programs that are being implemented for them and certainly require greater teacher engagement. What was given in the development plan of prevention, writes – prevention of violence, I would like to say immediately that the prevention of violence in relation to what is in secondary education, and defined as protection from violence, is technically not clear to me, how we do not prevent it from speaking, by saying – children in high school, do not bring drugs, do not fight, do not belittle. Here to prevent maturity rather than prevent children in primary school, who have no idea what abnormal and deviant behaviors are and at least they don't know in the first grade yet. It's just that one lexis is, probably not the same team wrote it, because I see that some things that go completely back like the school program, that they contain in both laws the same levels of school obligations, that in their self-confirmation there must be a development plan that is realized through the school program. The essence of all of this is the curricula and the programme, etc. What's common to both laws is that right to freedom from physics. We have a vague qualification of sports week. I don't know if it's a week like a day, so that week twice a year, every semester, half-life, or a week of sports activities, so twice a week in the context of the school's extracurricular activities with local self-government is a sport. If that's how it's done, I say hello. Physical education is introduced, but the ease of liberation from physics is astonishing in both levels, both in primary and secondary schools. The chosen doctor, yes, let's let the teaching council say he can't or can't, who judges. If we go on such a serious thing to evaluate and save someone, let's once in Serbia introduce it to be one commission, one sports medicine. You have as many doctors as you want, a pediatrician, a third physicist, and that's the end of the story, and you have confidence. As you will not necessarily admit to the children's absence that they are writing to them by a doctor, but rather by a parent and making parents lie that they are chasing children and lying on their behalf that they have not justified their absences and that it was all for a reason and a matter of disease. It's an unfair and hypocritical relationship, and both laws talk about great collaboration, great co-operation, the great love of parents, teachers, children, local self-government, that everyone works and that it goes smoothly, and in fact it's not. Where anyone can fool anyone will take advantage of the opportunity. In adult education, there is something that may have really gone the most in some so-called. the serious style of change. Data is a chance before some other countries in this region, that someone who has not completed primary and secondary education, through public institutions, can be educated. When you read – what are the goals, I will read – improving the qualification structure and easier employment. God forbid there's only one thing missing in Serbia to hire those who didn't finish primary school. It'd be perfect. The basis of Serbia's sustainable development is whether it will be educated by the eighth grade, we simply use large sentences, bombers, strong ones, heavy ones. What is the basis for sustainable development to graduate from primary school? It may be the basis of a statistical representation of a beautiful Serbia, and I agree there, but then it should be mandatory, and not academically, and the state should pay if we want to, rather than selectively pay only public institutions that do so, their equipment, etc. It further says - professional mobility and greater flexibility. Everything that we have heard about Bologna for teachers and students is now transmitted by those sentences, and coins for these people who, if they will, want to be trained within formal or informal or even informative by some personal training to acquire key competences or professional that they can do some work. I'm not saying they're gone, but so far, someone who wanted to do it could have done it, because institutions that are offered as a variant to make someone do it exist and exist. The improvement in quality - you see, here you are one whole delegation of institutions for this system of education of one not so small group, 40% in Serbia has not completed primary and secondary school, you have the exact data, 22% and 24%, that's about 40%. When you look at it, the National Educational Council determines the standards of key competences. The Council for Professional Education determines the standards of professional competences, and then it educates sectoral councils, so they work as permanent commissions, and here in these permanent commissions I haven't even been able to count how many dozens of different entities participate, so the larger ones analyze needs, so they read something, and they write, so they need to be qualified with the employment desk. In order to evaluate the quality of education and education, it prepares general and specific standards of achievement, and it conveys it nicely to this previous institution. So, an incredible galamitia of procedure, as well as a galamatias procedure when someone wants to be another public institution for education. Then he says, "Here, I am founded and competed with the Ministry." What's he supposed to do about it? Of course, and to pay a fee, that's the most important thing, to form, register, compete, send a program of meeting the conditions. That goes to the minister. He gives the Institute for the Promotion of Education, so he assesses whether it's a private person, a natural or legal person who wants to be involved in the education of new persons, whether he did it well, so he sends the inspector to check it all out, so the inspector returns it to the minister, so he asks the applicant to be responsible. It's a huge procedure. Isn't it logical that whoever already has a basis already has on the site the highlighted criteria of what he has to do, because he has to respect those criteria. Secondly, it's very reasonable what someone will be able to do for individual qualifications, what teaching, what modules, how long they will last. It will be difficult to introduce balance and mutual recognition, because today we can't even recognize a degree from one university to another or foreign diplomas that are coming, and how is this level for someone who really gets to show that what they learned at a working university is equivalent to what someone learned at another working university and that they can compete in the bureau, not to reject it, if at all in Serbia, because something better is this other certificate? The basis of the education system, there's part of the law that I'd just like to say, like everyone said yesterday, because we have so many institutions that work, which help, which are included, that the agency is one superfluous, unnecessary. It's a good thing that the National Educational Council, because of what we heard on the Committee, has resolved the obligations of the Minister to propose textbooks and to hide behind the Minister, that then the minister must sign and perhaps "put it" down to some more competent body that the minister will propose which textbooks he gives. The essence of the change in textbooks is in curricula and programmes and good peers and Serbia will no longer be stopped. Write a hundred agencies, a hundred councils and other institutions set up by the ministry to facilitate and decentralised themselves, that the minister does not, but the key things are done again by the minister. All conditions, criteria set by the minister. You don't have to run from it. The minister has to be responsible for what he's doing, not forming new bodies that eventually shut down and won't work, and the minister is making it harder for him to sign it now and initial it, and now it's his fault if someone wrote stupidity in the textbook. More serious injuries to student working relationships, it is good that something has been introduced, even this mobile phone, colleges are already buying listening devices. The famous Bologna, it's all on the test, the kids listening on the phone and getting averages. Exactly what I want to talk about, the student standard. Who knows the statistics, who is well informed, when he looks at 2002-2006, when the first Bologna, then in 2014, saw a terrible increase in study efficiency, amazing. Then who doesn't understand it anymore that we finally met that request and we're all about to get everyone who enrolls, they're all going to end up? Here, they'll all have high averages. Now we all believe they're quality students. No, they have knowledge that they acquired directly, quickly, instant learning. Today they lay, seven to fourteen days it's collapsing, it ends, there's a new party going. You can theoretically dismember any item per page per day or two to lie down. Then who can't learn that? When you add all that together, he passed. So again one weakness of the Bologna system, right on the nine and more. What is the right in Serbia to these scholarships anyway? It's not clear to me whether everyone who has nine and passed all the tests and all the time the budget-funded will have the right to this Dossy scholarship, a special scholarship, for the extremely gifted, I think it's called Dossy's. Of course, they won't, as everyone can have this basic. What are the criteria? What colleges are they gonna pick up? Are those who are the easiest to let the bologna have the highest average? Why don't we introduce once the right to distribute it according to the education system, so that there are so many architectural, so many ETFs, so much that they have these sciences proportionally to the number of enrolled and their averages. They will pick up everyone who makes it easy for them to give high grades and create themselves a high success because their passing is great. How many doctoral studies are being paid today? There's no mention of that here. Helping out that kind isn't there. Of 1,500-3,500 euros a year, three years after 3,500 euros, what can this doctor with a degree do now? Nowhere is he guaranteed a place, and children are involved in competitions where they need to compete for jobs, even in hospitals, in order to get specialisation are referred to doctoral studies. Since when is it to enroll doctoral studies criteria to bypass the gap to specialization? What are we playing at? How many doctorates in Serbia will there be if one university enrolls 100 PhDs a year? How do they come up with darkness? How is it possible that so many topics in one university, in just one city 100, write down lightly and times 120,000 to 120,000 to 150,000? That's where the money is. It's all a little bit. Then now we release the professors from what they get from self-financed well-deployed salaries. That may not be bad for some colleges where the salaries of regular professors are below 50,000. Maybe there'll be some benefits. But what is the message of another species? Come on, turn it down or raise as many numbers as you can, despite your license. How are they doing? They set work on two shifts, if you licensed college for a year, for 100 students working in two shifts, you have 200 students. So, in two shifts, teachers work in two shifts. It's highly non-physiological. There's always a way to deceive someone in Serbia, cheat. Now, if you sign them up, what's the message? More and more poor kids, more and more people who can't pay for school. I think it's one bad message that that money will be used, and no one will be able to convince a parent who pays that he didn't pay, so the teachers will raise their wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18097	Thank you. We are moving on to the MPs who have been declared to be in charge of a joint principled search. First reported is MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18098	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the last time he was Minister of Education at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he received clear questions from us as Parliament groups – when will he finally shape all the problems in our education system? Today, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have a set of laws in the field of education, which in the opinion of our parliamentary group has been done quite well, which we think is quite acceptable and which we will support in the voting day. Of course, it is all in the spirit of the adopted Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2012. We have long and carefully analyzed all the problems in our education system. In this time that remains with our parliamentary group, I will, in addition to what is good that the law regulates, try to point out something that not only did this law regulate, but also what other laws should regulate, and which have touch points not only with education, but also with education and raising the reputation of educators. We have, given the level of investment in material resources, a lot of good educators and truly extremely talented children who achieve extraordinary results at student Olympics and that's something that's generally known. However, the overall development of our education system over the past few decades has not followed the country's good economic development at the same time and there has been enough economic investment in the education system, but because of a number of political, social, economic and other anomalies Serbia has faced a single problem which almost no one has mentioned and which is still present and which, according to us, is a sign of the burning of red lamps with brain drains. Brain drain isn't something that's only been going on for the past 20 years. He was after World War II. First of all, I mean highly educated personnel. In the past 20 years, it has been extremely present and, unfortunately, great investment by the state, large investments by family members in the education of young generations into one resource that is the greatest wealth of a society. Often such a product remains at the service of some other countries and other societies. We're really in a frantic fourth place by the number of brain drains in the world. Some of the data suggests that in the last 20 years we have lost about 4,000 highly educated experts, who have proven themselves extremely by their work abroad. Some of the data shows that seven, eight years ago alone in the United States there were about 4,000 of our exceptional experts, that now there are about 6,000 of them, 2,000 of which are doctors of science. We should not then possess great wisdom and see why the United States is the leading force of the world and the country of the world, because they invest in personnel, in our own staff, but at the same time they also lead to the fact that in the best way they receive personnel on the side, to give them the right jobs, to get the right salary, that experts see the possibilities of professional advancement and to be interested in working and living in such a country and to develop such a developed society. Educational workers were once among the most respected members of society during a different system of values. In today's developed world, we work examples of Germany, when you say educational worker, that means respect. In a distorted system of values, especially in the last 20 years, when we are largely shaped by our social life and system of values – "Farma", "The Moment of Truth", "I Change a Woman", etc., where there are indeed many mentally ill persons who promote values that are a disgrace to society in every normal society. Starlets and some other faces somehow gain more social importance and respect from educators. I know this isn't a problem to solve the ministry, this is a problem that needs to be solved by society as a whole. This is a problem not only with regard to the reputation of educators, but also with regard to their material position, as regards the relationship of society with them. Since the education budget goes almost 93%-94% for salaries and only goes about 6% for development, without any twist in economic policy, without redefineing the entire economic policy, we cannot expect these problems that are really problems, which are essential to us, to be removed in the future. In the normative part, there is generally not much to object to in the proposed legal solutions, but we always ask the question – what tomorrow? Secondly, Minister, I have pointed out one problem that many parents have complained about, and I believe you as a ministry, about reducing the number of classes to the fourth grade of primary school to up to four hours a day. I believe the problem of too heavy school bags will finally be solved. Not only because of the weight of student bags, I believe that the problem of material abundance will be addressed at the same time, mostly by the fourth grade of primary school and learning unnecessary knowledge. There should be no great wisdom here, look at how in the world it is, how in countries that have the largest and most developed education system, and you will see that literally up to the fourth grade primary school children are mostly getting their school skills through various types of games. We really had something here that reminded me of Churchill's statement - blood, sweat, and tears. Kids shouldn't have to go to school in the first year to have that kind of physical and psychological burden. Secondly, a major problem that cannot be solved by these laws that no one has mentioned is the schoolyards, the safety of the schoolyards and peer violence. Schoolyards are not public areas under the law. In the schoolyards most often gather at night, unfortunately, or drug addicts, or pedophiles, or faces from the crime scene. Schools usually don't have a school cop. We have very few school cops. On the other hand, persons who are guards and employees of schools do not have the legal authority to eliminate the presence of such persons in places where they do not belong. On the other hand, what DHSS-SP as a traditionalist party and, in the best sense, the words of the conservative party, which base their political views on the education system, we give equal importance, in addition to education, to education. If you have a permanent presence within the schoolyards of a person who, in the worst possible way, influences the training of students with their behavior, then from the very beginning, largely, the school is tied hands to an educational role which, I say, is equally important in our opinion, as well as the educational role of the school. The law touches peer violence at school, but it is, in our opinion, the consequence of a general social climate. It is not just a result of a failure in the work of educators or people in the educational and educational system. It's the consequence and legacy of family and even social climate, as well as a series of other factors affecting what's happening and what's not good. If we look at the history of school development in Serbia, we will see that at the time of the restoration of Serbian statehood in the 19th century, when Serbian leaders wore Turkish fesses and signed a cross, they had a clear state development plan for the future Serbian intellectual elite. Literally, the state made a programme by which the most talented students were educated at prestigious universities in Europe, and then returned to their homeland and contributed greatly to its future development. This, among other things, conditioned a strong development of post-war Serbia and good state policy and Serbia's victory in all wars from '12 to '18, which also had an impact on the proper conduct of politics. During that period, we had an outflow of unskilled labour in developed countries of the world. Unfortunately, after World War II, what is dominant in our country and what is a process that does not stop, which is a process that continues to take place, is the absence of the perspective of young people who achieve the best results during their education. We know that, in addition to improving the conditions of education, modernising teaching equipment and learning, repairing the material position of workers, that, above all, the economic factor is the number one that affects such a frantic brain drain and personnel that should tomorrow be the bearer of the development of a society. If you talk to young people who achieve the best results during their education and study, they will all give you one and the same answer that we are all aware of. They simply do not first see the possibility of fast and easy employment on the basis that they have achieved good results during their education. On the other hand, they are absolutely aware of the existence of a country where party membership is the number one factor that affects not only the employment process but also the process of advancement in the service. In this distorted system of values, I think that every political party and society as a whole should make a contribution to try to try something very difficult to inherit that burdens our society and that largely eliminates the prospects of this society's development, to correct it in the future. I'm saying, these laws can't just be done. It must be done by a series of other laws. It must be the task of the entire society, the task of the entire government, but simply everyone should turn in that direction. (President: Time) What I still wanted to say, I am finishing, thank you, with the debate in particular, we will in the debate on amendments present some more concrete proposals, some more concrete solutions in the intention that indeed this normative reform tomorrow will make the best results in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18099	Thank you. MP Emir Elfic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18100	Dear President, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, we have a set of very important educational laws, education laws. I think it's a good thing that the time for discussion is united, and the number of MPs who have applied for the discussion speaks of the importance of this topic. The fact is that education is an education system in the Republic of Serbia at the moment in a very poor state, not to say the difficult state. There are a number of changes that are foreseen by these laws. But what can be seen and concluded is that there are no fundamental changes that would modernise education, which would boost dynamics and give greater quality and level of education to young people. Even if the content of these laws were much better or harmonised in terms of the standard of modern education systems in more advanced countries, it would not have changed the situation much on the ground, because, as the minister himself said in his presentation yesterday, that 94% of the percent, if I remembered correctly and wrote it down, goes to the salaries of the employees in education. So for investments in education infrastructure, there is simply no capacity. What the minister also said was that 400 awards were won by our students and that this shows that the education system has quality. I think these awards can be interpreted in a different way, in a way that we have extremely high-quality children, that we have extremely poor conditions and that in such difficult conditions, with the hard work of parents and the superior intellectual capacity of children, our children are able and ready to deliver top-notch results. What interests me, of course, as members of the national community and interests me most, is the language and achievement of the educational work of national communities and national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. Less, more, legal provisions and solutions of the old laws have also been transposed into this law for members of the national minority, educational educational work is educated in the language and letter of the national minority, i.e. bilingually. As the Bosniak National Community, we have so far not had the implementation of legal solutions which, we mentioned, have been extremely good and I want to express my satisfaction that the minister has taken the strength and that this government is making a step in the matter of the Bosniak National Community and in the coming school year, the Bosniaks will be able to achieve their right of education in the native language. However, here I want to draw attention to a few things in advance and several dangers which, not only do I see as a national MP, but also as a parent, issues that many parents of the Bosniak national community ask. For the reasons of the problems imposed in the Bosniak National Council in 2010, where the electoral will is not respected, and in accordance with the law, it is not possible to form the Bosniak National Council, the Ministry of Education has decided on this step, that implementation of the Bosnian language in the education system is implemented through the technical mandate of the Bosniak National Council, although thus larger as a legal entity cannot possibly exist and simply has no certain competent committees that these legal provisions could be implemented in a quality way in the education system. What parents ask as a question, and the public is not informed enough about it, is - what will be the scientific curricula and programmes, which commission, which working bodies have been working on in the technical mandate of the National Council? How are the textbooks, are they imported as foreign textbooks and are they translated existing? Will classes be in Bosnian or bilingual? Will the children separate or not? All these questions are very important and parents want to know how their children will attend school in the next school year. (President: Time. I think I've got twice as much time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18101	The provisions of the Rules of Procedure apply to parliamentary groups rather than to independent MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18102	Then only two more thoughts if it's not a problem. I thought I had twice as much time. As for learning Serbian in the environments where most of them are national communities, as is the case in Vojvodina where we have a high percentage of the population, for example. Hungarian national minorities, Slovak and other national minorities, what is suggested to me by my coalition partners is that learning the Serbian language or language of the environment, as defined, in this case of state or non-supervised language, goes with the assumption that children in houses learn and speak Serbian. The very beginning of education and education comes to an exceptional problem because they learn not language but Serbian literature. I think that scientific teaching programmes should be coordinated and put at a level or level that would be acceptable to children because children are in a great deal of trouble even though they have a great desire to learn Serbian language and also Serbian literature and are simply under a huge burden. I'll end up with article 30 where it's said that the class of the same class can have 30 students. The previous law contained 30, and in exceptional circumstances 34. However, 30 students are explicitly said here. I want to inform you and the ministers and the public...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18103	Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18104	I'm done. For example, there are 40 students in my son's class. In certain departments this number is much larger, 45 or 50 and simply is not possible in an adequate way to teach and to offer the quality that is needed. I will conclude by saying that in addition to all the economic problems the country is in with a constant story about foreign investors and investment, I think the best way to invest in the future is to invest in our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18105	The word is made by MP Radoslav Komlenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18106	The respected chairman, respected ministers and members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the people, respected citizens of Serbia, has finally come to the turn of a set of education and education laws that will allow the implementation of the Education and Education Strategy by 2020. I also missed to commend the minister and members of the ministry who made it possible for the MPs two days ago to participate and give their suggestions on these issues and I would like to commend the minister who found the time and last week to visit KIM and the University and Dean of the College and to talk to the students. I must say right away at the beginning that the JS parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day and will vote in favour of this set of laws. A set of laws that are important to us for the future development of Serbian society in general. On the agenda are very important laws that when changed can be tangled by a large number of people, and in this case on the one hand they are teachers, and on the other hand they are parents. All these draft laws put at the beginning of the first steps of creating legal forms and conditions for the achievement of education policies and adopted education and education strategies by 2020. All these bill proposals are the beginning, the first steps towards creating legal forms and conditions for the achievement of education policies and adopted education and education strategies by 2020. We support these bill proposals even though there is room for changes in certain parts that essentially do not change the basic idea of the legislator. It is good that by law we have separated preschool education and education from primary education and education and basic from secondary education and adult education. As far as the Preschool Education and Education Act is concerned, this law still has provisions that are due to lobbying and pressure coming from some associations and societies and which almost undetectablely enable certain provisions to be interpreted in one way or another, which, in this case, protects the interests of class teachers. I said that we would support these bill proposals, but it should still be said that there are parts of the laws that must be more precise, especially in the work that defines the implementation of the preparatory preschool programme, as a mandatory programme of education and education. More specifically, provisions for exceptional cases, under quotes, under which primary school realizes when, as well as who. I hope that will be defined by the regulations. We must point out that the reduction in the number of children must be made by all factors of education and education to suffer together. First of all, I mean class teachers, we know that this year about 1,700 students will be less enrolled in the first grade of primary school, and about 7,000 students in the first grade of high school, teachers who are allowed to work in mixed classes, while educators who implement the preschool prep programme have problems and cannot work in a mixed group. For preschool children, the minimum age must be more flexible, given the fact that these groups are usually in the field educational groups. The promoter wrote some provisions on the implementation of additional programmes in preschool groups. For example, dance school, foreign language, which is funded by parents, insisting that they are implemented after a mandatory programme of activities, after working hours. To remind you that many preschool institutions do not have a covered salary of workers from the budget of local self-government and that they and how organized activities are the source of funds that cover part of the employee's earnings. I hope you'll have an understanding of this remark. As far as primary education is concerned, in 1992 the Law on Fundamental Education and Education was adopted, exactly 21 years ago, and in 2002 it had some small additions. Using practice and experience, we have a new law on basic education and education. I'll list a few members in this law, and a total of about 106. What's the paper in this law? For example, in Art. 13th to 18th is the first time the school is divided by type. The typeology, the basic criteria are 1) curricula and 2) founder. Termin - national pandemic term - page. In Article 19. The bill, as a newspaper, stipulates that a private school can be formed as a school of special pedagogical orientation. This school must have a certificate of an internationally recognised association, a school of the same pedagogical orientation. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 26th and 27th special papers are the individual educational plans of all students who are being treated according to an individual educational plan and who make up a proposal for a school programme. Article 37 The draft law, as a newspaper, is arranged at home and remotely, in this case the school is obliged to organise class examinations from all subjects in accordance with the curriculum and programme. In Article 64. The bill stipulates that an elementary music school student, or ballet school, can be released from the course of an election course at school at the request of parents or guardians. Article 75. The bill also examines the achievement of students' standards during primary education and education by a national examination on the cause of schools and students, which is the same newspaper. We also want the rulebook closer to determine responsibility based on student results on finals based on external evaluation, quality of schools. We heard in a conversation with the minister that 2013/2014. For years it's already done, that cycle takes about five years, and we'll have clear and relevant data. More precisely, defining and saving students for the final exam, so that the time is defined as mandatory. I would have turned to another problem in elementary school, since I was a professor of physical education, and two days ago I also spoke to members of the ministry. A few days ago, we had an invitation to a magazine called "Kurira" that said – let us return the sport to the school, so we also had a massive action where the minister and ministry participated. I think that since the first grade of primary school, although both preschool and kindergarten, we should have involved professors of physical education, that they are real specialists in that part. It's a great honor for teachers who are now teaching physical education from first to fourth grade, but I think it's very important that specialists do it in that period, and these are teachers of physical education. I refer to the decision of the European Parliament since November 2007, I have to read to you, which says in preamble – physical education is the only school subject that tries to prepare children for a healthy life and focuses on their overall physical and mental development and that they carry on important social values: justice, self-discipline, team spirit, tolerance and fair play, that the lessons of physical education are in decline even in Europe. Two questions have also been raised to the European Parliament in the work. Should physical training be responsible for any all - educational outcomes or welfare for which it is sought, or is sought on his behalf? Under number two - how can physical education provide everything that is claimed in the name itself? For both questions, a list of related issues is important, for example – how can it be affected by the obesity of children with minimal time on a schedule of just one or two hours of 30 minutes of physical education per week, how can we develop a wide range of creative skills in large classes of 30 and more students, which the teacher sees less than 40 hours a year? Is an hour of physical education enough every day? That's all some questions and not to spread this problem any further, because it would take a lot more time. On this occasion I would also appeal to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Information Society and to the Ministry of Education that we must introduce, especially in local self-government, a clear definition of who can open sports schools and who are people. Because, we know, for example, who can open this pharmacy, dental office, or a doctor's office or a lawyer's office. In our line of work, unfortunately, he doesn't know that. The law on high school education, we support the formation of a network of high schools. This network provides great opportunities that we must take advantage of and demonstrate the effectiveness and effectiveness of networking of each school individually. We hope that the legislator in the part of the new school funding model will start from school 2014/2015. to conduct research at national level from the following 2013/2014. School years piloting a number of schools across Serbia. We received a notice from the minister that 16 municipalities will be involved in a pilot project, three in Belgrade, five in Vojvodina, eight in Serbia. The results obtained will be the basis for proving the proposed funding model and will give an opportunity to make certain adjustments if the research results show the need for corrections and new proposals. We support all certain laws that define the activities of representative trade unions of educators. We believe that without strong unions and their activities, especially their proposals to improve these laws and their co-operation with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Information Society, there are no laws well passed. But we also have to point out some anomalies that show back over the years, that almost every school year begins with threats to strike. These threats and strikes in any form are realized throughout the year. Everyone's looking for rights, and there's a little talk about obligations. Just to remind you, according to the final results of the preparatory and final exams and in the great dissatisfaction of parents and society in the overall weaker results, did the education workers' unions recognize the position and role of their members in these weaker results? The proposal is for teachers to achieve the student's expected achievements based on standards set per subject. Finally, trade unions and their membership should draw attention to working in the knowledge factory and the Serbian future. This understanding of the school may give new access to existing teaching staff and new ones employed in schools. I have to present one piece of evidence that is simple and ruthless -- the results of the IPA project that showed that we produce 30% of functionally illiterate children. Finally, education workers must be aware that they are part of a society that is in difficulty and that this society expects them to bear the burden of transition. Something that we would especially like to highlight and support is part of the law that defines retirement, where, after automation, when one of the two conditions, the years of employment – 40 years of employment, or years of age – 65 years of age, with a minimum of 15 years of working time at the end of the school year, which will open up opportunities for many teachers who have a low working time, or who do not have a full form of 100% to fill full-time, which will help them find full-time working hours and will in some ways reduce unemployment. I would look back now, and I would especially point out one institution that can contribute greatly to the implementation of the full capacity strategy, which is centres for professional training of education and education employees. There are currently 12 of them, and these are institutions that, by definition, carry out their activities at regional level. Centre formation financed part of local self-government and part of the Swiss government. All centres have resources that are not for neglect and can be used in all national research. The ministry should work to create a network of centres, and the network would be an integral part of perhaps an education and education agency, to be formed by the government as of 1 January 2016. The centre network would represent strength and capacity that can be included in the work on all national projects and programmes. Perhaps this proposal should be included when working on the work and supplementing the rules. We usually look very far away, so we don't see what's ahead of us and what's quality and strength that we just need to get into business, and the results are guaranteed. We are all constantly talking about the economic situation, about the economic crisis, and these centres are created by our little investment, and they can give a lot if we connect them to the education and education system. The centres are recognised as competent partners who have presented part of the projects implemented both by the Ministry and the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education and the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education. I must say that in Kruševec this Centre for Education and Education opened in 2010 and that it makes a great contribution to education at the highest level and professional staff. Seminars are being held all the time, and great help is being given to the school administration, which is what I presented in these allegations. I would also refer to the Law on adult education. The age is not a condition for adult training and learning, so the adoption of the Law on adult education for the first time systemically regulates this area and provides better opportunities for people who wish to be further educated or to be recognised. This law creates a legal framework for improving the educational and qualification structure of the population, thus increasing the employment of the population, as well as increasing the professional mobility of the working population. This law is very important for the education of the entire society, especially if it is known that Serbia and the age of the population are among the top five in Europe and among the world's top 10. In order to maintain teaching, priority should be given to primary and secondary schools that have working conditions, and this would largely solve the problem of extra employees in education and educational institutions. Finally, I would say once again that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support these laws and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18107	Thank you. Next reported is MP Riza Halimi, but not in the O.R. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18108	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, esteemed fellow MPs and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group supports the proposal for a set of education laws, because it believes that investment in education is the foundation of the development of each society, and that the proposed solutions allow it. In our society, we often talk about different developmental opportunities, but it is almost never heard that our greatest developmental opportunity is the youth of Serbia, but also generations of students and students educated in a quality way, generations that possess essential, practical and applied knowledge, not theoretical, reproductive, outdated and completely unusable. It is therefore very important to constantly improve the education system, based on strategic foundations and objectives. We believe that the adopted Education Strategy by 2020 and the set of educational laws that are ahead of us are a good step in this direction. There are numerous examples of countries that have made a real boom in education by investing in education. We were most often talking about the case of the Republic of Ireland and its growth and development model, based among other things on major investment in education. As an illustrative example of the Irish model, they can best testify to the following data. In the mid-60s, there were fewer than 20,000 students in Ireland, and in 1998, for example, over 110,000, which is almost six times higher. In order to avoid any confusion, at the same time the population increased by only about 27.5%. So if we compare the increase in the number of students and the increase in population, we get a 20-1 ratio or maybe 25-1. This relates to the importance of investing in all levels of education, especially in higher education. Another very, even more illustrative and better example of the importance of investment in education for GDP growth is an example of Southeast Asian countries, which are more known as "Asian Tigers". These are countries: South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore. These countries range from 1966 to 1990/1991. Years recorded average GDP growth rates per capita somewhere between six and seven percent. In order to make it clear to you how high the percentage is, I'll tell you that at the same time, the United States recorded a 2% growth. How did they get to that? Among other things, investing in education. In the same period, the number of high school graduates rose from somewhere on average 20%, between 15% and 25% ranging from country to country, up to 70%, and between 65 and 75%, respectively. So in about 25 years they increased the number of students who finished high school by 50 percentage points. In this way, they reached values that were close to those characterized by developed lands. In addition to this data, empirical research and many newer growth and development models, such as a well-known Harvard professor and economist Gregory Mankju, show that there is a positive correlation between the level of investment in education and the dynamics of economic growth. Serbia, according to the World Bank's latest report, has a satisfactory level of investment in education towards percentage participation in GDP, closer to correspondence in Central and Eastern European countries and slightly lower than EU countries. Somewhere between half and one percent, depending on the year we measure. But what is a big problem is that the result of this investment in an education system whose performances are well below the EU average, and unfortunately below the average of Central and Eastern European countries. For example, the results of the programme for international student evaluation, so-called PISA tests show that 15-year-olds in Serbia have average results worse than their OECD counterparts. What's really devastating is that our 15-year-olds record one, I'd say even a tragic result, which is that even a third of them are functionally illiterate. A number of problems with the education system in Serbia are listed in the education strategy mentioned earlier by 2020, so I would not tax each one now. I believe most MPs have read it, and citizens can find a strategy on the government site, so they can read it too. I must note that we must put skills and competences in the focus of our education, especially those necessary to solve practical professional problems. This is another of the things that they mentioned earlier, the PISA tests on which it can be observed that our students, in fact, have the biggest problem with practical, i.e. applicable knowledge, or that they have mostly reproductive knowledge. The point of the education system is not, as we unfortunately have, very often the case, the fulfillment of plans and programmes, even less the teaching of children as tests are being carried out. The point of education is that children learn to think. It's the only way to create generations of inventive inventors and venturers willing to take risks, and that's how long-term growth is generated. In addition to the proposed measures in the education strategy and in the laws that lie ahead of us today, the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group considers that there should be some other ideas that have been discussed in public the previous days. This was talked about in public, as an immediate introduction of compulsory secondary education, I would say that this could be done phasely, or gradually. Why am I saying this? Here yesterday, the minister said he had a very high percentage of high school enrolments, however, the data ignored some other data. So, being enrolled in high school, perhaps between 95 and 100% of those who graduated from primary school, we do not see that not everyone enrolled in primary school from those who were seven years old. We don't see that there's a rape in elementary schools, especially between fourth and fifth grade primary schools. We can't see there's a rape in high school. We do not see from this data that we have a very low percentage, where we are practically at the beginning of Europe at the percentage participation of high school education in secondary education, which is all resulting in a relatively low percentage of enrolled students. So in order to increase everything, it seems to us that perhaps we should consider some kind of obligation of secondary education and in some way insistence on increasing the number of high school graduates, because this is directly reflected in the increase in the number of students. The other thing, which I think is very important, is that some kind of competition should be introduced between secondary schools and universities in Serbia, perhaps even considering that it should be reflected in the funds they receive. Yesterday, my colleague, who also works as a professor at the university, like me, spoke about how much trouble it was that we introduced as a criteria for the passing of students, which we practically lower the study criteria, because if the most important criterion is that as many students finish a year, then we don't make quality in terms of their knowledge, we said most importantly, I guess we teach kids to think. As an example, a good one, as competition is created among universities, I'll tell you about a university or university, it's called the Institute of Technology in India, which has a percentage enrollment on a 1.5% admission exam, which is even lower than Harvard, Oxford or Cambridge. So several hundred thousand children apply to enrol at the Institute of Technology in India, and only a few thousand are enrolled. Well, that's how you create top quality, and that's what we need and what we need to work on in some future time. As far as the remaining laws in these packages are concerned, I would like to refer only to a few words to the Law on Topography of Integrated Cars, or what is called the Law on Topography of Semiconductive Products. It is not known for us, given the experience in the 1990s that Serbia is one of the pioneers of protecting intellectual property in the world. We were one of eleven signatories of the so-called The Paris Conventions on the Protection of Industrial Property, though the Kingdom of Serbia in 1883 and the Founder of the so-called The Paris Union. In recent years, in the process of EU accession and the World Trade Organisation, we are rapidly harmonising our laws and introducing the highest standards. When it comes to the topographies of semi-conductive products, our law mainly refers to the 1986 EU directive on the legal protection of topography of semi-conductive products and so on. TRIPS agreement signed under the World Trade Organisation. The most important benefit of the adoption of this legislative solution is the creation of conditions to encourage the development of domestic topography of integrated cars, i.e. semi-conductive products, as well as the transfer of foreign technologies, which is particularly relevant in view of the announced investment from the United Arab Emirates in a chip factory worth, according to some announcements, four billion dollars. This fact is more an obligation to adapt our legislation to best world practices and highest standards so as not to create favourable conditions for attracting these investments, for transferring the most modern technologies that we could develop ourselves at some future moment. These changes and additions to the Law on Topography of Semiconductive Products, the SDPS parliamentary group sees as another step in meeting attraction, as it has been called in the media, one of the biggest investments in Serbia in the last 30 years, but I hope some other similar investments. Before I conclude, I'd like to point out one potential ambiguity that seems to me to create, to call it, an extension of the definition from topography of integrated circuits to topography of semi-conductive products. This intervention, as stated in the reasoning of the law in the legal protection system, includes apart from integrated cars and discreet components based on semi-conductive technology, which is certainly good because we have a practically larger protection diapason when it comes to electric cars, to call them that. But by expanding this definition we create one problem, which is, the question is, what are we going to do now with an integrated car that is not based on semiconductive technologies, let's say, with an integrated car based on nanotechnologies or mems, i.e. microelectric sensors or some other integrated sensor-type car. So, this car is now falling out of the intellectual property protection system. I'll tell you right now, of course, Serbia at this point at this level of technological development is not able to create an integrated nanotechnology or mems-based car, but on some integrated car sensory work in Serbia, which will say, I'm afraid at this point we can get into a situation where we have a problem protecting the intellectual property of these companies, or those innovators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18109	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18110	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday as an authorised representative of the SVM Parliament Club, I have already issued our basic concerns and suggestions regarding these drafts of the law, and I have asked a few questions asking you, Mr. Minister, to urinate or help solve some of the specific problems that arise in the field. These problems, i.e. our objections and our amendments, mainly concern education in the language and letter of national minorities, as well as the harmonisation of these draft laws both with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and with the Law on the Jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I stressed that of the five draft laws in the field and the sphere of education, we have a problem with four and nineteen amendments. We have six amendments to the amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Six amendments to the draft law on basic education and education. Five on the proposal for a law on secondary education and education and two amendments to the Proposal for a Law on adult education, but we will discuss this in more detail in detail. I'm aware that you may not have even been able to see all the amendments since there are a lot of them, but I hope you'll look at them more closely these days. I already stressed yesterday that it really depends, for members of national communities, or national minorities, on who calls it, on the essential importance that they have the right, the possibility, means that both primary and secondary education is attended in their native language. It is very good that these draft laws on both primary and secondary education and education really provide the opportunity for educational educational work to be carried out in the language and letter of national minorities, but also bilingually. We have proposed, so the SVM parliamentary group, that it is as bilingually as possible to delete it because in this way it would somehow dilute this possibility that exists in our highest legal act, in the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that members of national minorities would have the right to education in their native language, if they were allowed to do this bilingually, means either – or, because of this, we are asking for it to be deleted so that those in state institutions, but also in the AP institutions could really be educated in their native language. Of course, there is a second part of the amendment, which my colleague, Mr. Varga and Mr. Minister, is already talking about, and we agree with that, so in a minimal way we have left the formulation bilingually, and I hope that we will agree on that, but this formulation of bilingual teaching only if it is in accordance with this roof law or you are in accordance with the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, but what is significant with the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. Yesterday, I also mentioned that it is very important that if the school performs educational-experienced work in the language of national minorities, to ensure the learning of the Serbian language. It is extremely important that even members of the national minorities who heard mostly in Vojvodina, I hope they live in a larger number or have the opportunity to use the official language of the state, to really learn the Serbian language. There is a problem with an inadequate or inefficient program of learning Serbian as an immaterial language or as a language of the social environment. Yesterday, I mentioned that as far as we are informed, there is a working group of the Institute for Advancement, Education and Education that should complete this new programme for learning Serbian language, that is something that is fundamental to members of the national minorities to facilitate both their employment and their further life in the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, it should be specified that if members of national minorities attend classes in Serbian, they do not attend classes in minority language, that they still have opportunities to learn their native language with elements of national culture, both in primary school and in high school. In elementary school, the problem is if it's an electoral object, and if it's an electoral object that doesn't lose the right to choose two more electoral subjects, as well as, for example, representatives of the majority people, and in high school, the problem is that the native language with the elements of national culture would not be a university object, which would by no means motivate the students to choose it because there is no obligation to finance the subject, and because they would not be evaluated, that assessment would not go on average, so it would be much better if this was an electoral object and that they would be motivated or perhaps now in those years they don't know how important it is to choose this item, that it is assessed and that this assessment enters their average. Since the time did not allow me yesterday, I only mentioned briefly, i.e. the question – whether the new law on textbooks and teaching means is planned, because the media has speculated and written about it, but what is more important to us and what is a real problem to which we have pointed out, not only we but national councils of the Regional Secretariat for Education and many and other members of the National Council, meaning, not only the National Council of Hungarians, is the real problem of textbooks, because Mr. Ministers, representatives of minorities complain that there is a lack of textbooks in their languages. In early spring, in early March of this year, many schools informed, for example the Hungarian National Council, that in the catalogue of textbooks submitted by the school textbooks, many textbooks are missing. Among the missing textbooks were, for example, 34 titles of the Hungarian language, of which 23 textbooks are not available in stock at all, while 11 textbooks are available, but in insufficient numbers, meaning, in a number less than necessary. Among the basics textbooks in Hungarian, for example, there are no basic textbooks, so, praise some as I learn to write, means, basic textbook for first grade elementary school or sixth grade reader, grammar textbooks, history, geography, fifth grade biology, etc. As I mentioned more, specifically six, national councils of national minorities have jointly addressed the Regional Secretariat of Education in order to address both the Ministry and some time ago, but not to say several months, but several weeks have been written by the Regional Secretariat with concerns about these national councils due to the lack of textbooks went to your ministry and we have asked the Committee on Education, you were not present, your associates were present and said that this really came. But last night, I was asking around the District Secretariat, saying that nothing new had happened and that this problem was still there. In fact, you know very well that the Law on textbooks provides for the issue of textbooks with small circulations to be financed from a specific fund, and among these textbooks with small circulations is that of those in the languages of national minorities and that fund should be paid a certain amount of money. This should be paid by any publisher involved in the publishing of textbooks, but at the moment it is only recently done by the Book publishing office. On the other hand, the current Law on textbooks provides that as far as the next school year is concerned, publishers should draw up a catalogue by the end of January, by January 31st. If some headlines are found to be missing, there are difficulties in printing these titles, the ministry should call a competition to which publishers might apply if they publish these missing textbooks. However, the competition, regardless of what is now mid-June, has not yet been announced. Of course, we know there's a problem with the lack of money, because there's not enough money in this fund to issue retail textbooks, but we think we need that competition to be called and to secure money for that fund. The only publisher who is obliged to publish minority textbooks is the Department of Publishing, but they claim that they are disabled because they do not have the necessary means for this. We believe that such a confusing situation that exists, which we have indicated for some time, could be resolved, so that the ministry can call a competition or solve this problem, choose among the reported publishers, and if not reported, that the job should of course be entrusted only to the possible Bureau for the publishing of textbooks. Of course, we know he doesn't have enough money, but to provide funds. I think we simply have to allow students before the start of the new school year or before September 1st to get missing textbooks that are either gone or insufficient. I sincerely hope that you will be able to solve this problem, because everyone is talking about it, the National Council and the media have been dealing with both minority media and television with national frequencies, but they say it stands, there's probably some kind of catch that hasn't been solved yet. As I mentioned in the introduction, I believe that you have not been able to take a closer look at all the amendments, but as you said very nicely yesterday in your interesting opening statement, you will try to accept everything that aims to improve these legal proposals, so we will see in the debate in detail next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18111	Thank you. People's MP Milorad Stosic is not here. The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am sure that you and your associates, that you know that LDP has since the founding and insists on modernising education and that we have always pointed out that for us the primary goal of education is actually investing in human potential, that this is important especially given the fact that time factor is quite wasted in this country, as well as material resources, as well as important factors. We used every opportunity to highlight the importance of education. There are almost no laws, especially when they are economic, financial laws, budget laws, well, here, and this previous tax debate, the only thing you could hear from the LDP bench, and you can trust one of your associates and check out the education issues. We have pointed out that it is possible, or illogical and abnormal, that the country has a surplus of educational workers, and that the educational structure is so bad. And you stated in the law that according to the last list, this structure is 46% actually of the population or has no elementary school at all or only has a primary school. I'm telling you this because I'd like to start a debate, and I think it's very important, with the lighting of relationships and according to these education laws and generally according to education. In fact, what kind of relationship is this, here we are, after all, showing ourselves here in Parliament. The discussion of eight laws has been brought together, four of which are from education, primary and secondary education, adult education and basic education, then two laws from science, one law on student and one law relating to education workers' salaries. It's all connected to one debate, and only these two basic and secondary education laws, one has 101, and the other has 106 members. We united all this in one pot and the time for discussion was five hours, and otherwise, according to the Rules of Procedure, we would have the right to speak for five hours each, which means that MPs would have the right 40 hours to discuss the laws. Of course, I don't think that's necessary, but I think some laws needed to be given that attention for five hours. Instead, as a big thing and a commendable thing, we got an extension of time from 10 o'clock. I want that one illusion that this is now some big shift, because, let's say, yesterday, a journalist RTS, since this was the last news, the news of the education laws was literally the last news on RTS, as one of the great successes, said that we were allowed to speak for 10 hours, even though we actually had the right to speak for 40 hours. There, it's just one of the relationships. When I talk about a relationship, I want to say that I think it was important for the Minister of Education to attend meetings on a package of economic measures, or anti-crisis measures that are being adopted. Just when the LDP proposed crisis measures last year, as a basic measure, in addition to reducing public expenditure and transforming businesses, in addition to creating conditions for the survival and development of the private sector, we also envisaged investing in education. That was very important to us. If at least in part these proposals had been considered or adopted, we would not be in this situation today. Secondly, this relationship with these laws is being examined and the minister here today is lonely. He's here with his associates, but there are no government members, no prime ministers, no first vice president of the government. I can tell you that in these years, I'd like to be denied, I really haven't heard from the President of the Republic once, the prime minister mentioned perhaps in an exposé of education as one question, not even the first vice president. It's just that no one appreciates that important question, this basic problem of ours. I will remind you, Mr. Minister, when you were an opposition MP, at the time I was president of the Assembly, another government, the government of Zoran Djindjic, when laws like this were passed, whether it was the Law on Fundamental Education or the Law on Higher Education, the whole government was present, and Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic participated in the debate from the beginning to the end. So not only did he give a convenient opening speech, but he was literally there from the beginning to the end, and he really used every opportunity to publicly state how important the reform is, that is, the modernisation of education. In the woods of these provisions and the law, of course, there are some things that are positive. It would just be too much if it weren't for anything positive. That's what my colleagues used to mention. These are, for example, provisions on the introduction of networks of secondary schools, provisions on distance learning and at home, provisions on inclusion, on rash, on the introduction of school gyms, on mandatory large graduations, etc. There are also these positive provisions, but that's not enough for us. Do you know why? Because we and those positive provisions actually only see it as a syphilic solution. There's no point. It's more form and there's no enthusiasm. Mr. Minister, I have to say, although I'm a little uncomfortable, I've already shared it with my colleagues, your speech that lasted more than an hour, it really looked like a water report to me, and it's in a regular situation, not now that we're being threatened by floods. In order to make things worse, I know you're not bad and you can be a skilled speaker. So there's no enthusiasm and that's what's the problem. After the government of Zoran Djindjic, reforms have been stopped and this enthusiasm has been suppressed and we have not yet recovered from it, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to go back to the positive provisions, but I'd like to say that they're not good enough. They're not good enough not only because they're proposed for some kind of momentum, but also for the simplest reason why they predict a slow realisation. Here, take a look. Let's just say, I said the introduction of a high school network. The law was withdrawn. He's been in procedure for a year and a half, so he's been pulled out. You've been in the new government for over a year and now you're telling us that you need two more years, so three and a half years to project that network of high schools. It's the same with sublaws. It usually takes you two years. Imagine how you'll feel as a minister? So, you've been a minister for five years, and it takes you two more years to introduce a network of high schools, and then you'll be able to say, my result is that in seven years, I've managed to project a network of high schools? It's an even worse situation with a big graduation. That's where the five-year deadline is predicted. So you'll be able to say, it took me a decade to introduce a mandatory graduation? You'll admit it's depressing, at least that's what it looks like to me. You're also predicting an education and education agency. It's a new body that's being introduced. The question arises whether this body is really necessary. The question was asked by others, among other things, by trade unions, whom, if it hadn't been for that, it wouldn't have been known either that these education laws were being adopted, but they did draw attention to some objections to the adoption of this law, and I think that's good. So, in addition to these slow solutions, I'd also say why it's so harmful. I don't know if you know that in the 21st century, the 10 most profitable, most paid professions in the 20th century absolutely didn't exist. For example, such an interest is an optimizer for searching the Internet. That's what our students, our students probably don't know. How will they know? We have brought a strategy by 2020 without awareness that the most dynamic changes in civilization, globalisation in the 21st century are precisely in the area of repairing the communication and education structure of the population, Mr. Minister. That's what's missing. That's why there's no enthusiasm, that's why there's not enough substance. In addition to this realization being so controversial, what is not good is one wrong approach to save on education instead of investing and investing in education. You say they're not economic opportunities. We all know they're not economic opportunities, but when were the economic opportunities? There were no economic opportunities even in the early 19th century when the minister of education was the first Minister of Dositej Obradovic. What, they were economic opportunities, so he made a move. They were not an economic opportunity even when Zoran Djindjic was prime minister. Everything was devastated, institutions, infrastructure, in charge and over-indebted, and reforms were launched. Here's an example of how education is saved and you're part of that package, and that's wrong. First, that the number of students in classrooms can be up to 30 even though the profession has supported the proposal for 25, even though it is a European standard, we have foreseen that standard up to 30 students, with your explanation that schools do not have the capacity, that they do not have enough classrooms. First, some schools certainly do. Where I graduated from elementary school, there were six, seven elementary schools at the time I was studying, that was 40 years ago. There were seven departments at a time. There are four or five of them in those same schools today. I don't believe my work is some isolated example. And you say it yourself, and we all know that the number of students is decreasing, that this year 6,800 students will be less enrolled in high school due to the decline in birth rate. I'm offering you a concrete proposal. Why didn't you at least try to make that maximum 25, with the exception that those schools that couldn't provide material conditions, or classrooms, could raise that number to 30? Wasn't that a more realistic solution? What's wrong with that solution? Next, where is it being saved? It's a disaster. In the training of educators, because it goes into the 6% of the total budget for ministers. At the end of the talent fund. You're opening that education and education agency on the question whether or not it's necessary? I know for the Department of Promotion continues that he and the educational workers and the NGOs and among the companies involved in education are considered to be very conservative. It's clear to me that one conservative body can't implement modernization. It simply doesn't make sense, but the question is whether this opening of a new agency is justified, and I understand that this talent fund may not have yielded a result. Then something should have changed in the way it worked. Where's the other savings? That's a real shame. It's on student scholarships where the average requirement is increased from 8.5 to 9.00. At 9:00 with an explanation that the number of students with an average above 8.5 has increased. It rose enormously by tens of thousands, probably. Isn't that good? Shouldn't you be rewarded? Is it possible we're so screwed? I went to your site to see how much these scholarships are. Six hundred dinars a month and they're paid ten months, not 12 months. Isn't that a shame? Isn't that defeat? Fourteen thousand students times 6,100, that must be a lot. I don't know if that information is correct, but I've been informed from the PISA test media. In one place, I saw that this year was not going to work because we were too late with the deadline. Maybe that's not true. I know what the media's like. The second is there's no money. (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: Yes. Then good. That's a good thing. Now that I've mentioned these PISA tests, I'd like to say that we're also at the bottom of the European country scale, that as a solution to fix that result, we've found one Solomonian solution that we've taught students how to pass that test. She needed special training for that. In fact, that's how we fool ourselves. Isn't that right? The weakest result in these tests was the students showed when knowledge from two subjects or more was to be connected. That means there's something wrong with the way you're learning. It's not just what the kids are going to learn, it's very important and how they get in. Furthermore, insufficient attention is paid to information literacy. There's a provision that schools are required to have their own website. Let me ask you -- what do you think the percentage of educators who can make a website or edit a site? Believe me, since we have a lot of education workers members in LDP and we have information, a third of the LDP clubs are teachers who deal with education and information can be heard that some children are more compatible with computers than their teachers. This loses the authority of the teaching staff, but it's again the story of mastering teachers and the need to make more money important for it. In the end, I'd say what's key, which is that we can't compete with cheap labor. Our only chance is to compete with a qualified workforce. Look at the facts. A chip factory opened yesterday, before this year was opened one cardboard factory, one cable factory, one tape factory. What I'm saying is that these are the least complex products and that says how far behind we are and how important it is to modernise education. If we were in the 20th century, this might be a satisfactory and solid solution. We would support them, but since the 21st century LDP really can't, for all these reasons, start from the very relationship to education, because there's no essence, that the solutions are a verse, that slow realization, that solutions are not adequate, we can't vote. We will be happy and the first to support you and be happy to support those laws that follow a new century to some extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18113	The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as a longtime educator, I support the adoption of these laws. I hope that they will improve the education structure of our non-enviable population. I would like to welcome the adoption of the Law on adult education, for lifelong learning in today's modern world is an inevitability. The big step is also to accept informally, i.e. to recognise informal education, as well as previously acquired education. I hope that way a lot of people will be able to get a job and use their qualifications and skills. On the other hand, I think it'll be a good incentive for new investors to arrive. You know how, when a serious investor comes around, he first looks for a location with all the infrastructure he needs, and second, he always asks for the education structure of the population in that territory, and in what time he can provide the personnel he needs. I would also refer to the Law on Fundamental Education. It's a good thing he has to lead us to have a complete coverage of children. We see that we still don't have it, that it should lead to no rash, that we have access to education for all children, that education is quality, efficient and just. What I like personally is that in some ways he returns the educational role of school. I would like to highlight some of the good aspects of this bill, which is that clearly defined objectives and outcomes are, that the school is obliged to organise preparations for the final exam, which will, of course, make it easier for parents who will not have to, especially those poorer, to pay extra private lessons, in order for their children to prepare themselves well and quality to pass this exam. The paper also presents the introduction of teaching at home and at a distance. Also, I welcome it, and I think there should be a choice, but I'm simply warning you somewhere that some of the additional rules that are foreseen, you're very good at regulating this area, so there's no abuse by some parents, because we already see that there's a rash in primary schools somewhere, that there's no abuses and this doesn't lead to rashes, especially in some sensitive categories. So that area should be well defined and regulated. Even passing those exams, classy, question whether a child at the age of seven, eight can eventually pass that class exam. What I would especially praise is that sport is favored and that an integral part of the school program is part of the protection against violence, neglect, abuse, as well as the prevention of addiction. Violence in schools is a big problem. It is present in schools and these are very detailed research that has been done and shown. Of course, we must never close our eyes to this problem, but we should be courageous in dealing with it. In solving the problem of peer violence, everyone must participate and schools here simply cannot remain alone. The law also provides for a school and family co-operation programme and it is very clearly defined that it must be evaluated. There's a cooperation between family and school. It seems to me that this is quite a weak link between our education. I sincerely hope that by passing this law, she will improve. There is often disagreement between parents and teachers. It happens that they transfer responsibility to each other. That's wrong. Teachers and parents should be partners in the task of educating and raising children, to give each other a hand. It is necessary, and very often parents are very valuable classmates. They need to help, they need to give ideas, they need to make decisions, but they need to take responsibility. Only by working together between teachers and parents can we make progress in education and raising children. I know from experience that a large number of parents are ready and willing to help, only needs to be animated in some way. What I also like is that a 63rd member is scheduled to provide additional support for education for children with developmental disorders and disability. This support is very important, given the inclusion that should certainly exist, it gives some results in our schools, but simply here neither teachers nor teachers should be alone. And they need it, and they will be precious to support the so-called. pedagogical assistants. I have a dilemma here how much will this support be available to everyone? Will they only have schools in large cities or will they be available to those in smaller places? Teachers are really trying to work with children who attend an inclusive program, but they're just not that trained for such work. I think this support would really be valuable to them. I ask the Minister to ensure that the support can also be given to schools located in smaller towns and villages when determining this list. I'm also having a dilemma about funding that kind of support here. As for protection against violence and abuse, neglect, inclusion, prevention of addiction, our schools have a rich and valuable experience. We have examples of good practice. I'm surprised why you didn't in the Basic Education Act predict that schools could be model centres. We see that such a solution exists in the High School Act. We even have it in the Preschool Education Act, adult education. In that sense, I have submitted an amendment. I hope you'll consider it carefully, that elementary schools can also be model centres. You know that in over 200 and something school is doing a program called Schools Without Violence. We have schools that have extraordinary successes in inclusive education. From personal experience, because I have also worked as a trainer at many seminars, I can tell you that fellow teachers somehow accept those skills, skills, experiences when they hear that something good and successful is being implemented at a school. In that sense, I'm really asking you to look at that amendment of mine, and if we can even have a model center among primary schools. As for the number of students in the class, my personal opinion and attitude is that there should be up to 25 students in the department, given that our teaching should be modern, that every child should be given enough attention, that we do not live in a time where the teacher only teaches a lesson and after three hours examines students. I know that in the time of this money crisis, it's really little, that this is going to be difficult to realise, but I ask you to consider in the next period the possibility of being up to 25 students in the department, even if you introduced it gradually, that there are up to 25 in primary schools first, then in high school, because, Minister, you yourself pointed out to be a problem in high schools, and I know that this would probably lead to problems in high schools. But when the financial situation improves, I sincerely hope that you will consider our departments having 25 students. In addition to these good things that I pointed out, I want to point out that in the future we have to take a brave step forward. School plans and programmes must be revised and modernised. Students must no longer pour into the data that those minors need to learn by heart. Our disciples should have knowledge that is applicable in everyday life and work. They must acquire those life skills that await them when they grow up. They need to know they're solving problems, being innovative and initial. As far as secondary and university education is concerned, our plans and programmes should be such that students from these institutions come out absolutely qualified for work, not that they have to be further educated or overqualified. What I don't think is enough, especially in high schools, is the development of this entrepreneurial spirit and that our students get little knowledge, skills, let alone competence to start their own business after school. We need to update the teaching process. I also think about modern teaching and learning, as well as modern methods. I would remind you that we have to make sure that all schools in all parts of Serbia are equipped in modern times, and not that some schools simply don't have toilets, but they have Polish toilets, not to mention modern schools. Also, we should pay particular attention to the education of the teaching staff. We need modern, modern teachers, who can handle each other, so to speak, with all the challenges of this modern era. It is also important to create a system that would lead to competition between schools and not only secondary but basic. We need to create such conditions that schools can compete, that parents can choose which school their child will go to. I would also point out somewhere that it is necessary to think seriously about decentralisation of education, because somewhere lower levels of government are easier to recognise education needs and react to them. School can't be some isolated system. It must be open to the wider community. In that community, he should be looking for partners he can work with. Very often some things can be done without money, with good organisation and co-operation with resources in the local community. In that sense, I think our school directors also need additional training because they need to be modern managers today. As for funding for education, I know that money is generally small, but in education we have to invest because investment in education is, in fact, an investment in Serbia's progress. Most educators do their job well. They're dedicated to their work. They work very well with children, the vast majority, they put forth a lot of effort and love, and I think the time has come to return in Serbia dignity to schools and teaching professions and to provide them with the place they deserve in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18115	Thank you. National MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18116	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, with my associates, and I welcome them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with the agenda of this session that shows very well what attitudes we here today as most of us have in education. So it's here on the agenda of eight laws after a united debate. Of these eight laws, six refers to education, different levels of education, four are directly related to it, two indirectly, but we can talk about education. One of the laws is the Act of Innovation Work. One speaker has mentioned something about it so far. Of course, it's about changes and supplements, but I think it deserves to be talked about. The second law is a bill on the protection of topography, semi-conductive products. No one mentioned him. I'm sorry, it is. So it's been so long along the way, as this ruling majority would say, in the package. When you put something in the package, then take what you need from that package. For me, it's devastating for the ladies today to talk about education in a package and to say that we were given a great opportunity when we got the double time to discuss it. Somehow I think we're seriously wrong. I was particularly sad when a man came from the same parliamentary group to explain to us that because of the importance, there are a large number of people who are interested, so there are 126,000 employees and 850,000 of those who are covered by secondary and primary education, like, that's why it's important to us. That's the second attitude that hit me terribly. It doesn't matter to us, does it? For me, the position and the view of the DSS is that education is strategically important for every country, that investment in education means investing in the development of its country and investment must be constant, constantly, we must try to make sure that most of the budget goes into education, not some other things. What's very important to me, too, is the fact that we don't know what our system is. Without a reformed system, we can't move forward. On the other hand, to reform it, we need to know what it's like. I listened very carefully to the discussion that ran during yesterday and today. I heard the findings that our education was great, because we did great. That our education is high or that we have problems. I also heard that our education is a mess and there's no system. So we heard completely different findings during only one discussion today and yesterday here in parliament. If you ask direct participants of education, ask teachers, ask teachers if they are satisfied with the way the school works, you will get a much simpler answer – 90% of them will tell you that they are not, so I will also state the reasons why they are not. Ask the students if they're satisfied? Perhaps the answer is what success is in tests, international and domestic. Perhaps the answer is in a large number of unwarranted absences. Maybe the answer is somewhere else. But I think the answer is all together. Ask your parents if they are satisfied with their children’s education, and why is it important for them to have private schools? Ask your parents if they're satisfied with their children's success, if they're satisfied with the knowledge they carry, if they're happy when they're in high school, then they're happy with the exam, and then when they're in college, are they satisfied? You know what, these are all the answers that each of us needs to hear when making decisions. They're different. Someone's completely satisfied and someone's not, but all the answers they have to consider. What is my position, and my view stems from the results of a study by Professor Ivan Ivić, who I don't need to talk about, at least I think in this gathering here that I shouldn't talk about, what his role is and how much his knowledge is in the field of education. The study is called - Fundamental Resources in Pre-university Education in Serbia. Of course, his associates at the job were Dr. Ana Pesikan and Professor Dr. Ratko Jankov. For me, it shows how many holes we have in the system, how many holes our holes spread very quickly, and how much they affect the healthy tissue of education that of course there is, just to say that it's gone, then it means to me that we need to be very objective, to see where we are, and to work fast, so that our holes don't become big black holes, and that education doesn't go away. So these people collected data relating to children, i.e. kindergarten children, primary education and secondary education students, collected data relating to schools, and collected data relating to teachers. This is a very large number of data and therefore they have made a detailed cross-section, pointed to weak points of the system and, most importantly, made suggestions on how to make these weak points advance and how to keep the system functional. I find it very interesting to get a reply from the minister – why don't we have all this information about students, teachers and schools, when we've already taken credit twice and this loan was supposed to be for the development of an information system of education? It's simple, you take credit twice for the same purpose, and we don't have the data. I don't know all the data, but maybe you do. It's amazing when you look at what I'm about to tell you. The Republic Bureau of Statistics, when it talks about education data, has one piece of data. The Ministry of Education has other information about the same thing, and you'll get third information from the union. I can't believe that in a state the size of Serbia we can't collect data in one place. No one can be responsible or anyone can interpret the data that fits him, so that's exactly the mess we're all swimming in. I'll start with a problem in preschool from what Professor Ivica identified with his team. I apologize for not naming the other two names, not because I think well of them, but because I wouldn't waste my time, because I think it's important to say what they found, not to mention the authors. So the biggest problem with preschool education in Serbia is the small coverage of children. It should have twice as many kindergartens, but so distributed that many more are available to the children of the village of the poorest and the small Roma. It is these groups of those most in need of preschool are not covered by the system. When you look at statistics less than half the children who go to kindergarten is a fact, and 77% of children in cities where they have much more support, where they have more opportunities to get some knowledge in preschool cities, and the smallest coverage of children and villages, and that's just every fourth child, and that's just the educational level that's prescribed by law, and that's the preschool level. Next, I said that the fact is that those kids who need it most don't go into this system, they're not in the system, and I'm in the system that you've offered us, I don't see the methods that you're going to be able to turn on. What did Professor Yvic's team suggest? We need to build preschools. That's what's conditioned with economic parameters that aren't great, and they're getting worse because you're working on still borrowing us. He suggests something that is possible, which is very simple to provide. It's a four-hour stay of children in institutions. You can do that in schools that are empty. You can do that in local communities and elsewhere. It is possible with a little, as Mrs Natasa Micic said, a little more desire to do so. Let's see what's been established for primary schools, and then we'll compare to what you suggested and see if we can make it happen. The big problem with elementary schools is dissension. This study shows that in 2042 schools, which is 58% of schools, only 6% of students are educated, and these are mostly schools in the country. The rest of 95% of students are educated in 4% of objects. That's a very interesting piece of information that we have to have when we talk about what you've predicted. The data suggests that 3930 school buildings are over 50 years old, that one third of them has no toilet, 30 to 50 years old has 1565 buildings, and only 400 schools in Serbia are under 10 years old. Watch the data, 90% of the objects are either for a very mature reconstruction or for something you need to fix. A far bigger problem than what I'm talking about right now is that elementary school is mandatory, and it doesn't end up being the whole generation that enrolls it. Now we come to that question why we don't have an information system. I quote Professor Ivic – data provided by the Ministry of Education that 99% of students finish primary school give a completely fake picture because they count only those enrolled in eighth grade. But if the data compares how many children are enrolled in the first grade and the eighth grade is completed and how many of them are in the generation we come up with the fact that 10% of the generation doesn't get to small graduation. The only comment to me is that it's really good that you recognize that this exists as a big problem and as it is in the law, that you've offered that we have to keep an eye on it, I don't like the word – pouring the students out of the system, pouring them like some kind of medical formulation, here is leaving the school system too early. It's a good thing you recognized him, and I'll talk about him later. The second key problem of primary school is the poor knowledge with which the founding fathers leave school. That's confirmed by international tests, and let's go back to this last one when this trial-classification exam that showed the absolute illiteracy of the founders. I think that's disturbing. We should all be dealing with the subject here. Although I have seen in the bill that the ministry is not a good printer, so don't print them big letters, while I'm at literacy. What I'm saying is that international tests show that our students have adopted some knowledge that they've learned by heart, that they can't apply their skills, that they work without understanding, that they can't connect knowledge. The comment that we should participate in this "Piza Test" is that we should participate because we will only see where we belong and that is where we will see how we can fix ourselves, if our goal is to fix ourselves. High school. Of course, all the problems in primary school are poured into the high school system and the test results show that the main cause is a bad teacher’s chamber. We have a problem with school teachers hiring graduated biologists, graduate chemists, graduate mathematicians, and schools are supposed to have math teachers, biology teachers, people who have pedagogical skills, people who have psychological skills, people who motivate children, people who can work with other little living beings who want to advance, and not kill them in the beginning because we didn't reorganize high school so we don't have achievements, standardisation in grading, so I've got two 70%, and I've got 20%, so what happens to you. In high schools, the problem is practice. We all know where the practice is going. It's taking place in some outdated workshops on antiquated machines. There is no way that these children today can meet the modern needs of society and economy. Although our economy is extremely advanced, they can answer with these workshops. Imagine what our programs are like. The same chemistry program teaches a nurse and a butcher. Whether it's the same level and whether they need to have the same level of knowledge chemistry, but it's true they have the same chemistry program. General knowledge of high school students shows they're very bad. That's what they show after university. College entrance exams are the parameters of what we bring from high school. It's a slow network of high schools. You recognized it, and it's a good thing you recognized it. That network has a lot of totally out-of-date directions. That network has schools that are completely unusable. Only in Zlatibor County do you have ten schools that offer machine jobs. If it takes the Goldibor County to have ten engineering schools, then the network is great. It was research data. Now let's see what we can fix with the measures you've offered. So I understand that that's the way to look at things that are good for us, what's wrong with us. I've only made it bad because of the time I have to respect so my colleagues can have time to talk. That's it. I'm going to say things on purpose, a little bit from the High Education Act, a little bit from elementary school, because you mixed it up. You put that model in the agenda so I'll respect it. It would be really incorrect if I didn't respect the agenda. I'll start with the education and education agency first. There were 137 agencies when you took over, when this government was formed. Meanwhile, the seven are closed. They're all from environmental protection because they're enormous consumers. Environmental protection absolutely does not need this country, 0.2% of the budget is absolutely abolished by seven agencies. We have 130 agencies without this one of yours that will be formed in 2016 because then there will be much better economic conditions. I want to tell you one thing. I've been doing a little bit of data again. Besides the Ministry of Education, there are 23 administrations, three councils, two institutes and countless commissions that I have failed to count, even though I have tried. According to the powers you've written, it's as if I've read the Office of Quality Assessment because it has the same responsibilities as the Agency. So if you compare it, I don't see any reason why you're building an agency, because you already have something called the Bureau, you can call it the agency, it doesn't matter, he's already doing this job. So, I don't think there's any place to start any agency in a country that owes this much, in a country that's on its knees and in a country where people don't have bread to eat. Next, what I want to do right now, and that's an inclusion. I am the president of this small task force, a sub-group of child rights protection committee, which deals with inclusion. I've been in the same place in the last term, and I've been working deeper on inclusion, and I have to say a few words, simply because I'm someone who really advocates becoming an inclusive society and someone who really advocates seeing where our problems at school are, first of all, because we went to school, we have 11 attended schools and those who are examples of good practice, so models, as you say. I can't help but mention a school in Kragujevac called "Milutin and Draginja Todorovic", which is a school model, a school for reputation or a school near Nis, in a place called Chokot, a school for reputation, has 100 years, belongs to a group of schools of 100 years old, but it is a school for reputation, which shows that some schools have understood the spirit of inclusion and managed to achieve it regardless of the difficulties others have and they should serve as a model. My only objection is that everyone realized that you didn't offer primary schools model school, but you didn't even offer criteria by which some other school could become a model for something else that offered and that would be good. On the Child Rights Committee, you said you'd fix it, I really welcome that, that's good. Now let's see. We, as a society last time defined ourselves, when this Law on the Foundations of the System was, we defined ourselves as wanting to have an inclusive society, to have an inclusive school, we were aware that everyone who entered the Inclusion process had passed quite alone, that examples of some other countries couldn't be examples that we could apply, that we could almost rephrase them, so somewhere we had to look for everyone and get involved in this system. We knew it was an expensive system, we knew it lasted a long time as a process, because simply in the process you see, you make a cut at some point, so move on, or return some things. To conclude, then, we were then identified for the inclusion and it became part of the school's daily routine. In the meantime, inter-resor committees were formed at the bar. They've finally started doing their job, I have to say they're doing a great job of their own, it's a big job, it's a responsible job. I resented you and the board, and I have to say, someone has to stop and tell who's responsible for the work of the inter-resor committee. Whether it stands for the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Local Self-Government, someone has to, because right now, something that works very well for you, and that's the basis for you to start, to get kids involved in school, to die, because at the IRK place, the inter-resor committees disappear, they break down. In this Nis where everything worked great, this commission stops working, there's no working conditions, there's no working resources, no computers, no reporting to anyone, in some local self-government report, there's nowhere to say that this commission has worked, how many children she's had, what she's done, etc. So, the completely unsolved status, and without it we can't go up the stairs, the children can't be directed into the system. Please, Minister, see who can take over the work of inter-resor committees. Without them, this thing won't work. One more thing that's very important, I also said it on the board as my impression. I have the impression that now it's going one step back, that there's going to be some turning point in what we agreed would be a system. The system meant that any child could be involved in the inclusive work of the school. Now all of a sudden, I know that there are still special departments in the bars, and I figured that in this law she would no longer exist, that she would simply be expelled. But now they're showing up again in law. I have to draw attention, the schools will go with a very simple inert. They'll say this - if there are special departments already and you've left special schools, why should we bother with the inclusion, why invest in funds, fight to make IOP and other plans, the simplest thing, that's where we'll put the child. It's not gonna be good for the process of turning on the way we wanted it. I know, and you've confirmed that you're not making that turn, although in law, I don't see a way out of what I said. On the other hand, the good thing you've done, and it's a good thing that you've done in inclusion, is that in the past law, in a way, defectologists, special pedagogues have been removed from the process. They couldn't get involved in this, and I'm not someone who thinks any profession that works for the benefit of a child should be removed in any way. It's a good thing that now there's a possibility that these people who are employed in special schools can certainly help schools that want to work on the inclusion process, but I don't see how. I didn't recognize the model you meant. How are they going to work? Who's gonna pay for that? There are examples of good practice in the locale today. The pleasure is, for example, a great example of good practice precisely in that, they can be a model school, next to them is a special school and they cooperate fantastically. Here's a chance to get an answer to the question – how did you imagine that? What I really recognized as a problem - schooling at home. Let's get the definitions straight first. I must say again, I am deeply bothered when one legal obligation that Serbia has made by signing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities does not respect. First, it does not respect it by not inviting the National Disabilities Organization, representing 500,000 people, to participate in lawmaking. I guess she had something to say. If you had invited them, you would have made it clear that the definitions you gave under the law were not correct. They're not children with developmental disorders, they're children with disability and developmental disorders. Let's go to a school problem at home, seeing that time is really going on. Let's take a look at what it looks like when you decide to go to school at home. You have a lack of resources, a chronic, no personnel, no funding to remove construction, information-communicative transport barriers, no means to provide support for pedagogical assistants and personal assistants. I can write inter-resor committees no matter how many of these measures and support there are, they're gone. Now the parent, when all this is gone, has to be defined and said – you know what, I can't overcome this barrier, I'm going to define that my child is educated at home. I'm afraid we're working on the benefit of our damage. If that possibility arises, and the parent takes advantage of it, you will see that the process of inclusion will not go in the direction of progress, but will go in the other direction. Now, second of all, my observation when it comes to schooling at home. Excuse me, Minister, this is segregation for me. You're offering private schools. Private schools need someone to pay. So they're for the children of rich people who can pay for it. On the other hand, since someone must be attracted to something, he will also separate top professors who will teach at that school. Top professors – private schools. What's left for state schools and children who are very smart, but there's parents who can't pay for private school. It's what you can't hire at a private school. Are you saying that a teacher or a teacher, if he's in a situation, he's living off his salary, that he's gonna miss a chance to be employed at a private school because he's got a wonderful national pride and a feeling that he needs to do something for his family? He can't. One period can't go on forever. So, you're going to have private schools for rich kids, you're going to have state schools for kids who can't pay for private schools, and now you're going to offer those who can pay for not harassing their children by getting up early in the morning, not being harassed by some teacher who's not in a good mood that day, not learning stupid things, now they're going to go to school at home. We've got complete segregation, we've got caste. I'm for the concept of a school, a state school that will always be competitive with a private school because it has to be competitive, because it schools fit for this country first and I think this is the wrong way. Now, again, in the way you work, I'm jumping to the Labour Act. You gave two orders. I know you haven't passed the strike law, but the Labour Act defines the questions about the strike, so these provisions you put into the law aren't the place. I know they're dissatisfied educational workers, but they just don't belong here. The second provision refers to an educational worker who, in the school year, fills one of the conditions for retirement, automatically retires. Is that what it says for other workers? Does that say that for medical workers? Is that what it says about firemen? It doesn't say, it says something else. Why are separate educators so they can't strike and why are separate educators to have one condition for retirement? There's no room for that. Everything else you mentioned, co-operation with parents, prevention measures, it's all great, but it's all just touched, it's just formally listed. You don't have a model of cooperation. You have to offer school models how it's going to work. It'll work at the bar. You say, "I'm working with local self-government." The local self-government worked well with the school while she had her parents' advice at the bar. You have an example of a pilot of the Koseric project. Make sure I tell you the truth. It's working great, and you're off. Fortunately, the DSS wrote one of the 141 amendments she wrote. Kitchen duty, duty of transport. One way to get your kids out of school is not to get them a ride, and you said that every parent has the right to choose a school. Why, if he already has the right to choose a school, he has no right and the school pays for his ride? I've still got a lot of things to do, but I'm gonna do it according to the amendments, because if I keep talking to my colleagues, they won't talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18117	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18118	The Honored Chairman, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, Proposals for a Law on Fundamental Education and Education and Secondary Education and Education and the Proposal for a Law on the Education of Adults, together with the Law on Pre-school Education and Education, are the whole of the law in the field of education and education. It's good to talk about them together. In addition to the strategy and roof law on the foundations of the education and education system, this is one legal framework for all education and education laws and the first step towards the realisation of the state strategy in the field of education. It's already a fact to support the proposed laws. The mandated representative of our parliamentary group has delivered the SPS's position and we will support the proposed laws in principle, and when the debate is discussed by the members of the law, we will give each member our position, present our opinions and make our contribution to the adoption of the most qualitative laws in this area. I want to welcome your willingness to listen to everyone, to discuss every objection, every proposal, to discuss every amendment in detail, not looking at who he has submitted, but whether it contributes to the quality of the law and, as such, adopt it, because I think it is a very important issue for the simple reason that the education and education system is older than any government and not dependent on government to government. When I came up with this legal framework that I was talking about, what I want to point out, it is reality, seriousness and responsibility, given that the situation in the field of education has taken place. I have to say that I belong to those who don't say that the school system is the best, because if it were the best, they wouldn't do it, but I'm not good for those who say it's wrong either. One thing is certain, that it should, and must be better, of course, aware of the conditions in which we live, aware of the economic situation affecting it, demographic movements, the awareness that there are fewer children, that there are empty and crowded schools in Serbia, that there are not enough children from sensitive groups with development disorders, rural environments, poor children, that there is not enough compliance with the needs of the education market, that the material situation, as a consequence of the economic situation in which the country is located, and schools and educational workers are not at a satisfactory level, that I am data that 94% as a flow water heater is leaving for salaries that are not large, and 6% for improving the quality of education, school infrastructure, etc. is talking about a lot of problems and a lot of issues that need to be addressed in this area. I welcome this reality of yours and the willingness to enter into these conditions to resolve these issues. If we say that the system needs to function stablely, it's a huge system, we heard numbers yesterday, from almost a million children to higher education and over 100,000 employees in over 40,000 departments, etc., it's important that this system works in a stable manner. What I'm saying is that education costs and that it takes a lot more to do to ensure stable funding for education. What I want to say publicly when it comes to education, it seems to me that in our heads, we also need to change approach, because education is not a cost, education is an investment, and it is the biggest investment in the 21st century. Of course, we are nervous people in difficult times and we want every investment to bring results tomorrow, and this investment brings results to a longer term. In these conditions, I acknowledge to you that you have managed to preserve and operate the system of education in one stable way. In such conditions you entered into reform, in modernization, primarily through the creation of this legal framework, given the state, but also the way I want to point out, which you had in mind when you offered these solutions, which is a characteristic and responsible thinking to see that education adapts to the time in which we live, the conditions in which our country and all of us are located, but with the aim of having a feedback on creating better living conditions. It is clear that the need is shown to be in line with the needs of society, with European education, with the education of developed countries in one systematic but rational way, and the laws are only part of this overall reform, there is still a lot of work to be done in the area. Jobs and measures that should be the result of and include pedagogical science, but also pedagogical practices. We have great teachers, great teachers, practitioners who should be involved. What I want to point out is that we are not lying to the people, that a set like this was done in the light of being Serbia's children, as well as Serbia's economy, or the state's capabilities. In such conditions and in such a way, you are actually offering laws that need to reach the basic goal of developing education, which is to improve accessibility, so, justice, equality, quality of education and, of course, the efficiency of the education system, with yet a great goal of increasing the number of educated citizens and, of course, to encourage higher education, to invest in the development of education structure, and given our main goal of ensuring equal chances for all. Every child, every citizen in Serbia must have equal access to education and knowledge regardless of their property status, social, national, religious origin, etc. So, it has to be fair, it has to be, to say, to include in the educational process and children of poor parents and children of Roma and children from remote rural areas and those who have escaped, displaced, distracted by development, etc. I just want to look back for a little while on the whole educational system of three things. First, it is very important and for general support is that a state strategy has been adopted in the field of education. It's a document that we've missed for many years, missed. This strategy that has been adopted, to simplify, determines our direction, determines how to get to it, that strategy over the next 10 years, we have set up a barrier to whom we are going to share the quality of education and all of this that I have talked about as basic goals. This law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System goes in that direction and realisation of the Education Strategy and the creation of these conditions to ensure a greater educational level of the population, the development of a knowledge-based state and what I find very important that it can ensure good employment, therefore, compliance in these areas. I'm not going to talk about the details, my colleagues about each law will individually give a stand in principle, but I just want to point out a few things. Given that this newspaper, which is proposed, and one section that applies to employees, and it's about taking over employees, about stopping working relationships, what I want to point out, there's a respected union request. I would especially like to point out, Mr. Minister, you belong to the few who are daily in the union dialogue. I want to make this public and to support and ask you to continue your daily dialogue with the social partners, with the unions, these are people who carry it in the educational process, significant, and without social dialogue there are no successful solutions. I want to point that out. I want two more things. This is a legal framework, and much is expected and what you need to encourage is when it comes to curricula and programmes. I think there's a great task ahead of the profession of how to come up with curricula and programs, how to resolve this larger dilemma that exists which all new achievements are to be included in the programmes without at the same time being a great burden for the student. It's a big deal and it's a big deal to find a balance on that and a big obligation of professional bodies. One more thing, two or three years ago when a law was passed that was also important for education and education in this period, the Law on textbooks and teaching means, I publicly commended you, because until then we had a situation that was like a market. There were many of them, there was no order, and dozens of billions of them bounced away from the area. Now what you're detailing in this area is another step further towards it. Just a few words, it's a law that's been passed to us for the first time, which is the law on adult education. I think it's part of a single education and education system, I think it's a significant and important law. Now to make a little joke, it's not a law that kind of looks like that night school of Paja and Jaretta from the "Campioners" series, it's a very important law, which aims to enable, even to be the beginning of permanent lifelong training of people to acquire new qualifications to get faster employment, to be more professionally able to change jobs, etc. So, one very important law for the simple reason that will result in an improvement in the educational forgery structure, but also an increase in employment, and that is what we lack in the current system. So it's about learning throughout life, with the possibility of exploiting existing institutions, and with the aim of connecting the world of education and the world of work. It is very detailed on how formal and informal and informal education is achieved. I would especially like to stress that law and special support for it. In the end, I only want to support one sentence within the framework of the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on student and student standards, I want to support this system that has been offered, protecting the material position of the best students, the best students. Impregnable are the figures here that appear, and if I'm not mistaken, it says, that's what you mentioned yesterday, in 2002, 1.184, in 2007 4.350, in order for 2013 to be 14.021 scholarships. I give full support to the attention of gifted students and students, by creating conditions that they can quality education and support this authority that local self-government now has the authority to also, in accordance with their own opportunities to grant scholarships to gifted students and students. I will end up with one sentence, almost all of us agree that the powerful drivers of development in Serbia are in investing in infrastructure, energy, agriculture. I want to get it over with. Serbia's biggest resource, Serbia's most powerful driver of development, are educated young people, and this is the investment that must have a priority, for which we must fight, to invest in knowledge, as a chance for Serbia's development in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18119	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt an act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break of one hour and we're going to continue at 3:10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18121	Mr. Chairman, allow me something that may be more like a joke at first, but there are lessons. I've been trying to get into our Rules of Procedure some traditions from those old parliaments. One of these is that they do not address anyone directly, but exclusively the speaker, or the chairman, so I will avoid this ceremonial welcome from ministers, secretaries, MPs, and even citizens and citizens. I appreciate all that, but, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, I will address only you. Just so there's no confusion. I've been thinking about kind of structure of what I'm trying to say, not talking about everything and everything, but choosing three questions, since this is a principle debate. I think it's important that sometimes we don't get lost in detail, but we just see things in general, see them in principle. One great philosopher Russo, I mention him here because he can be mentioned, is credited with one of the initiators of modern education and education by his novels Emilie Loise marks the revolution. How much of this was the revolution to testify and the fact that in front of the French parliament in 1885, his writing "Emil" was burned because of the disrespect of traditional ovaries of education. He said somewhere else – we should go from the people as they are, and from the laws as they could be. I would replace this, not from people, but from reality, so let's see our reality first and then see what can be applied which is good, extraordinary, etc. In this law there are good solutions, things, suggestions, etc. He eventually came as one result of our alignment with European legislation during that accession treaty. And that's fine, but that's where we get the big problems. I believe that we must shape our legislation with European legislation if we want to, and I see that we want so much. We tremble and wait for the day when we will finally be accepted, to join the EU. But it's no problem that we just accept the laws, sign something, some rules. The reform only starts when we change reality, when we change something in reality. That's why I'd like to speak first of all from the human rights point of view, then from the point of view of the development of modern technology and its impact on education and ultimately about objectives and so on. the outcomes of that education. The problem is ours, one society in transition that changes or doesn't change, how it will react, to coordinate education. First of all, I would say a few words that are understood, what is education and why it exists and where it comes from. And before Freud, it was known that there were two impulses. One is self-preservation and a good part of the modern economy relies heavily on it. In some cases, it leads to such a sharp conflict when only personal interests are taken into account, but there is another impulse, which is the urge to maintain a species. It's not just the propagation of the species, it's what it's going to be. The ambition of man and all he does is purpose. So, it's the future. So people wanted education as soon as possible to have some offspring as they imagined it should be, well, better than themselves. So it wasn't always, but those who had power, they imposed, among other things, on education. Of course, at first aristocracy and later church. I was moved by some discussions about the role and importance of the church in the development of science. I don't share those opinions, because there's a lot of evidence about the stifling of science, but I'd put that aside. We have a problem now. We have accepted respect for human rights as one of the greatest values, not only the EU, but long before that. There's one in the UN Charter. Respect for human rights is the most sacred thing, because they are universal and based on one of Seneca's sayings – man is a sacred thing. It's the key to every humanism. What's going on and what's going on? On one side we have this so-called. The second human rights basket, which speaks of social and cultural rights. It's as important as freedom and security. So they have the same rank of universal rights. Our Constitution finds it and says basic education is mandatory, equal for everyone and free of charge. I've had a lot of trouble, and I have to say that there has been an understanding of the Minister of Education, the then and the present, to fight for that principle of equality. If there's something mandatory, it's mandatory for everyone, if it's free, it's free for everyone. It's the same form of law. It has long been debated whether free textbooks or not, whether competition or not, attempts to mix two things, the possibility of one pluralism in education with that fundamental right of equality. I can say that the Law on Fundamental Education follows this modern social democratic tendency of equality. Equality is a word that is quite compromised in our environment due to various changes in the regime, order, etc. But there's no more persistent value in history than equality. It doesn't exist. Not to mention the natural rights, when Antigona tells King Kreont – what you're saying, okay, you're the master of this, but I've been calling on some rights that are older than you and I, no one knows since they are. I wouldn't elaborate on that right now. We have to follow that equality. I don't feel comfortable seeing her relativating in different ways in reality. Unfortunately, here we could hear a minister explain the budget – if there are not enough students, we cannot now finance a village where there are three or 15 students, but we must take care of the economy, the budget, etc. Okay, maybe that minister is an economist and he doesn't have to be so directed into human rights or the Constitution, but if one child is in the hole and it doesn't go to school, we have to stop it, the state has to make it possible if it wants to respect itself, the Constitution, to provide him with education. It provides him with the Constitution and the UN Charter and the human rights act. Let's respect, finally, some general principle. I wish in law, wherever possible, it would be strictly monitored. Because it's a foothold not only from the point of view of humanism and human rights, but, even if you will, of some national interest. That Napoleon did nothing else, and he did a lot of damage and some benefits, but he did one thing – he introduced compulsory education and the same standard for all French. Since then, the French, and after two centuries, we, on the same day, have all the children in Greenland, Paris, Mompellier, anywhere. Why was that important? It was important to extract from the depths of the people, all its capacities, what was best. Because the best students and graduates could go to another high school on equal terms. That's how they got significant students. Serbian democracy had that feeling. If you look now at who these people were who founded universities, who created that science for us, you'll see it came from the people. Jovan Cvijic was not a noble son, his parents were shepherds, and this is more or less true for 90% of these people. That intelligence that educated this people came out of the trouble of the people. Let us not now allow various reasons of economic or other nature for this matter to be lost. We've already done that. It used to come to a university from all over the world and from all possible social layers, and that was good. Today, a man with a salary that he has to do, somewhere from Babusnica or I don't know where he's from, schooling kids, no matter how smart she is, at any university. It's a decline in equality problems and certainly a deficit in the capacity that affects the entire nation. Those things should have been followed through the laws. The other thing is that if we knew about this reality something, we should be looking into it. Unfortunately, our science, research, sociological, and others have fallen. The only thing that's being questioned is how much of a politician has a rating and he's installing it, pays it, does what he wants, and these ratings are being questioned all day long. Whoever knows anything about it knows how good it is and how valuable it is and how much you want it to be. But we don't have any research in society what our society is today. That's where the problem begins. We are very disciplined and with our best wishes we accept European values, laws, standards. It clashes with this reality right now. What's the consequence? Disrespect of the law, crisis of the rule of law. Then we come to that other danger that the value, very significant, such as the rule of law, is completely disregarded. We rely on statistics. Many colleagues and colleagues here spoke very nicely and exactly how fake it can be. I'd say something about how reliable she is at all. Now let me tell you a personal detail. My first job in Belgrade was at the Institute for School Promotion. And today, that institution exists, so it's been reforming education for almost 60 years. Then I wrote an article, which they praised, I was too young, "The goals and the achievements of education reform." The other day I took a look at him, not because I was thinking too much about myself, but he's not below all of our current school discussions. So we're not out of the way. Second case. The first Serbian Education Minister to head Serbia's education was Dossetj Obradovic. 200 years ago, he said, "Build schools, children beg you." How many churches have we built and how many schools in this modern time today? What are the values we're dealing with here, and what's this about? This statistic tells us that 5% of children don't enroll in school. It's already a state crime, disrespecting the right of citizens to be educated. There are all sorts of reasons, but if we look a little more honestly, we'll see that they're mostly Roma children. I've been doing some research, doing some debates, gatherings, etc. What did I find out? Most Roma children are not reported at all, are not enrolled by their parents and they don't even know when the child was born, but there's little and their cunning, since it doesn't seem to be seven years old, it doesn't have to go to school. They don't even want to send him to school. The Roma issue cannot be resolved in Europe and the world without Roma education, without raising the ethnic Corps to a level of education, changing their lifestyle and being competitive for all employment. It's no excuse that they didn't carry a child into the municipality to report him. It is the task of the social services of the state to come to every village, the hygienic or unsanitary writing children, to see which was born, to give him a name, not to celebrate his birthdays, etc. So you were born then and then and that day and that day you go to school. We can't get away with it if they had a duty to do it. It's not done. We still have kids who leave school, we have broken families, no responsibilities, and much less, as we've seen, graduates from high school than is enrolled. That information would have to worry a lot about educational authorities, and all of us, who are the percentages of those who haven't finished primary school? I think it's one of the biggest things in Europe. Let's not brag about any other stories. It's inadmissible, that what's fundamental, basic education, we have about 20% of the people who haven't finished it. It's a fact one. We can't write all possible laws of modernity now, etc., but this remains a reality that keeps beating us in the eye. And now, of course, these statistics are still being abused as much as you want, but we see one tendency, from primary school to college, a rapid decline in the tendency to education and the possibility of education. Now, I know it's a problem of money. It has been said that given our national income, this budget is relatively decent. I remember when Albania had one hydrocentral, and then it built another. Then all the newspapers on Albania said Albania was the first in Europe because it improved energy capacity 100%. So, of course, when we start with our budget, and then from not knowing, so much and so much, it's not the normal cost of education being asked around the world today. Education in many parts gets expensive, but it's always worth it. So these are all the problems that suggest that we see reality more realistically and that our main problem is to reconcile what we verbally accept or the duties of what is reality and what is not realized, to try to bury that conflict. The other problem I wanted to talk about is the question of progress. We don't like that word very much. We are progressing one step forward, three steps back, and how, in history, we are greatly boasting about some sort of perseverance, tradition, some verticals. There's everything and everything. Two, three words about tradition. It's become almost a sacred word here. It's not to be mentioned, so to speak, when someone puts it at risk. There are different traditions. You can declare any thing traditional. Traditional derby, for example, roaring hooligans, now much worse than they used to be, it's tradition. There's a lot of tradition in those traditions. Let's see which tradition, what's chosen from that. We think that the problem of tradition is a virtue in itself. It's not. Anyway, what is it that you want to cultivate and respect? We think the English are the most traditional people in the world, because their princesses, they all come when they get married, so I don't know, there's MPs sitting in wooden benches 200 years ago, etc. These are the effects more, I'd say, touristic and so that's why I should stress it a little bit. But you'll be amazed if I tell you that one of the most significant English people, John Locke, who introduced a division of power, a political liberal theory in the world. He had a book about education. That's where it says one thing. There were body sentences in schools. I was still in school when there were physical penalties. They only disappeared in 1945. Mr. Chairman, there are people here who haven't gone to school or fled class, they're bored with every lecture. I'm asking them or not to listen to this, but I wish those who want to hear it would let them. What we're going to do is something we need to measure with possibilities and see what it is. Looking at tradition, there's a lot we'll respect, and there are some traditions we should forget. But John Locke got up, proposed a law to lift body sentences. What happened? On the street, the students demonstrated -- down reforms, we want beatings. That made fun of John Locke with that stupid tradition they'd long since left. Now tradition has other difficulties, which makes it impossible or prevents, very often innovations, but I don't want to talk about it any further. There's another problem, there's a modernization of teaching, there's technology developing. Simulations of various processes are being simulated. It's a virtual reality. I was in The Hague a few years ago, running a delegation. They took us to the science museum. I can say it was one of my most interesting events. It's been a weekend. It was full. The children brought their parents to teach them, teach them modern technologies, when we push which button – volcanoes, press another button, then earthquakes. Then how did it come to be? That was crowded. Then I asked, unfortunately, that didn't come true, and they promised to send a few schools for a week for the children to pass those museums. There are historical, natural, all kinds. It would be worth more to them than to have someone dictate in some notebook for a year. How's that with reality? When after 15 years, thanks to the Serbian Parliament's decision, I found myself outside the university and in 1990 I was returned to university. I don't know how much the Assembly did. They never gave us a solution. It doesn't matter. Mine was a huge astonishment. Meanwhile, it was Shuvar's reform and Milan Milutinovic, with these "shuvarics", with the comedy as much as it was cut into 200 different schools, just so that it could be applied immediately to certain factories, etc. I left people who read Plato, Kanta, debated, interrupted me in a lecture to discuss, and I found students who recorded everything in the notebook. I broke up. What are you doing? They keep track of what the professor tells them so they can do it again. So, this kind of debate where the professor is going to talk, and they're going to repeat, they've been fighting our psychologists, our educators, I have to admit, to modernize our methodology and this teaching of pedagogy. It's going very slowly. There's a resilient process going on, because even the staff that are to be raised have become weaker and weaker. One principle is that of the same Russo, whom I mentioned, and the educators must be brought up. If we get a ton of security, then we're done for nothing. More importantly, does one of you imagine that in 20 years, a teacher with a diary will continue to come and call the students -- what did I say, let's do more, repeat everything I said, that's what class would look like? They won't, no matter how much we want them to. They're going to watch it over the screen, on TV, on computers, simulating certain phenomena. So you can't stop technology from doing that. She'll do it. We stay here, tap happy. Of course, financial resources are one of the major obstacles. Finally, there's one more thing I'd like to say in the end about this third subject, about the goals and what's still called, that was innovation, that was results, what comes out of it. Put a dime in there, something comes up on the other side. There are, I'd say, some inerts that repeat beautiful desires and create so-called. A universal, perfect man. She can't go to school because she's not the only one to create the perfect man. I won't quote everything here right now, but will he be creative, full of innovation when he gets out of school? Will he have a critical opinion on scientific results? As far as we have scientists sitting there today, copying something like that, they don't have a critical attitude towards the scientific text in front of them. If we're going to ask children, they're going to have a critical attitude, and they're going to be among art, aesthetic values, etc. So, there's a lot of good wishes about some perfect man. If we had such outcomes, we would not have an equal nation in the world. Unfortunately, they don't just come out of school the way we want them to, even though it's a nice wish. Come on with the goals, but these are the outcomes now. It can't be created. Okay, there's still a few assignments left. I can understand that desire and that momentum to create it. But here it's about values. That's a big question, because the goals are related to certain values. What are the values of our society today, which we would say most of the population supports? Let's see. Something has happened to us that is rare in history, that in a very short time you change not only 7-8 states in the name, but you change several political and social systems, and then you change values. You had these national values, so the values of solidarity, internationalism, collectiveism, etc. came to an end. Then came the value of profit, private interest, competition, etc., but does everyone now accept and what does that mean? We have a complete confusion of values, but this confusion of values is passed on to textbooks. Let's take a closer look, especially with regard to these social sciences of history, etc., and then religious education came in. What are all these mixed values in this student's heads? In the end he should be what we talked about, and he won't be, but he's got one mess that's easiest for him to decide to repeat what it's about. We're in this crisis, the crisis of values, because we can't define them. On one side we have liberal theories and I can say that Margaret Thatcher, that's when I happened to find myself in England, when she brought first measures – the removal of milk, what lunch is for students. It was the first step in saving her government, because the laborers before that were broad arms. She kind of lost her sympathy after that gesture. Because I think, and we'll see if that value can dominate, that the basic value is man and the human community in which he lives, and these other values are derived from it. It can't be worth anything but the human community and it can't be seen. I'm listening to a lot of debates, there's a lot of numbers -- a percentage of this size, a profit of this size, an investment of this size, nowhere man. And the man in the soup kitchens, unemployed, desperate, no man. Political communities exist for people and not for anyone's profit. I know that this profit should then be redistributed, etc., but as far as I can see the modern world, it is not redistributed to satisfy most of the human population. So these were the things I wanted to put here as one problem we're going to find. I hope that during the debate on amendments, we will manage to improve as much as possible and make more realistic the many expectations that are here today and to be aware once again that what we are about to pass a nice law is good, but it is not enough, but it is very bad, if this law is not applied, so let's be realistic about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18122	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18123	The Honorable Chairman, Mr General, the Honorable Ministers, Assistant Ministers, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, allow me, before I start talking about this set of laws, to thank Mr. Minister and his team for meeting forces at the most critical moment to visit the University of Kosovo and Metohija in Kosovo Mitrovica, along with his associates. They're doing it today. Today, the Secretary of State is down, Dr Mašić and Vera Vujicic, etc. It would be good to maintain such a relationship in the future. Dear People's MPs, we live in a time of transformation and change, both globally and in our country. In fact, we live in a time of globalisation as a universal process of integration and change on an international basis. The Republic of Serbia, including countries in the region, is particularly difficult to follow the process of globalisation because they must carry out a painful transition process, i.e. the transition of social socialist relations to capitalist relations, i.e. the transformation of socialism into parliamentary democracy. Serbia is another difficult task because it has had previous wars. Since the transition changes, the former authorities have promised Serbian citizens the following. First, intensive growth in industrial production. Secondly, the growth of investment investments. Third, higher foreign capital flow and investment in the country's economy. Fourth, a better standard for citizens. Fifth, faster employment growth. The sixth, a sharp drop in corruption and crime and the seventh, a better education and education. These promised values of transition change in our country have not been realized. Instead of these values, Serbian and Serbian citizens received the following. First drastic decline in industrial production. Second, the freezing of investment investments. Third, too slow the flow of foreign capital. Fourth, a major increase in unemployment, up to 26%. Fifth, weaker standard for Serbian citizens. The sixth, sudden increase in corruption of crime and the seventh, which we are talking about here today, is a poor quality of education and education. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the engine of all transition changes should have been knowledge, i.e. education and education. Serbia first needed to transform education and education, not only in its individual parts, as it seems, but in the entire system as a whole. I'm saying that education was meant to transform not only by education, but also by education, but by abolishing it and not by transforming it. I'll explain that specifically. Serbia did not accept the transformation of the education and education system in general because it had no courage. This means that she had no vision, she had no people in the education ministries who should have had so much political courage to go into changes that are inevitable, not only in the countries of northeastern Europe, and especially in our Serbia. First, it was necessary to transform the general objective of education. I insist, gentlemen of the ministry, because by becoming a socialist, I quote -- a versatilely developed personality with a rich mind, therefore, intellectual, moral, aesthetic, work technical and physical characteristics, complete quote, did not correspond to new capitalist relations. Perhaps new capitalist relations needed to transform something else, to move towards the person of knowledge in the function of work and life. Furthermore, the question can be asked – what knowledge, whether strictly professional, informative, or with a prominent work technical feature? Unfortunately, this work technical feature of these laws that we have left behind, and this should be one of the most important components in defining the general objective of education and education. To this day, and in these laws that are before us, we have not redefine the general objective of education. It's like building a house without a foundation. The basis of each education and education system is its general objective. On the basis of such a redefined general objective, redefining educational tasks in general should be carried out. In doing so, traditional, moral, national and civilizational values should not be forgotten. Something the predecessor said about it. It was also necessary to redefine the role of the family as an important factor in education and education. This means a healthy and comprehensive family as one of the inevitable factors of education. Transition, economic and social relations have led the family into such a position that it cannot fulfill its educational task. More and more families with one parent contributed to this kind of family, but more and more frequent divorces. Her educational role has been reduced due to the economic crisis so to the minimum. Transitional changes have led to a system of education and education so far that it is destroyed today, not open, devalved, demoted and ununited. These are the basic characteristics for me today of the education and education of the system in which we are. Professionally allow me to say something even though the laws state this about the professional training of teachers that it is not an enviable section, although in laws it is initiated here in a very good way, but in practice very often in seminars for the professional training of teachers appear persons from NGOs whose professional and educational opportunities are often below the level of teachers themselves they train. This is proof that our educational system requires genuine reform and reconstruction at a level, I would say, a pedagogical revolution. We neglected education not only at school, but also in society. I would say that we expelled education from school, from student organisations, from the streets and free activities of students, even expelled, believed or not, education from the law. That's what the laws were called – the law on elementary school, the law on high school, instead of the Law on elementary education and education, the Law on education and education in high school, etc. As a result, today we have a very common question in school, parenting home, sports playgrounds, sports organisations, political parties, and even if you want in this Parliament and society in general. That's why we're dealing with the consequences of unquestioning, which means violence, hatred, rude behavior in every place, murders at school, which often happens to us, on the street. We deal with drugs, alcoholism, prostitution, robbery, bribery, corruption, crime, and that is all, believe it or not, you who work in educational institutions, due to education, or better to say no questions. In this transition crisis, there has been a flood of private education, and I particularly underline this, with a tendency for foreigners to open not only schools but universities in our midst. This problem needs to be analysed and studied, to be placed in the place that belongs to it in our society. The education worker's pedagogical call is threatened with a number of sides of the rapid development of education, poor policy regarding the material position of educators, irresponsible and unprofessional behaviour of individual teachers who have strayed into school and staff, and they, you will admit, are not few. There's a bit of a mistake here, and there's a gentleman from the Ministry. I'm sorry to have to say. Believe it or not, on my question - is there a list of university professors, the answer was - no. I answer to go to the Hunting Union of Serbia and you will see that there is a list. Do you know why there's no list? Because our university teachers teach us three, five, 10, 12, and one even 22 jobs. Under the law, only one job in a third-party relationship can be done. How can we open the perspective of young generations? The legislator was clear here, but we are in practice carrying out other things. At a time of severe economic crisis schools and colleges should take measures to protect the family budget from various types of profits, and it is not small in schools, small and large shops, whether it is about buying textbooks, work notebooks, recreational classes and excursions, as well as any extraordinary parent expenditure. We have a case to buy double textbooks. One is left at school and the other is taken home. Can you believe it's done in Serbia in the 21st century? They say they're tough kids so they can leave them at home. It's a pedagoggy of robbing parents and it's incomprehensible in the 21st century pedagogy. Do you know what this is about? Someone took a percentage and two different textbooks, especially when it comes to Bucharest in the first grade. The teacher must have two, including a student. Saving as a permanent moral educational category of personality must be educational value calculated in this law here, and it is indeed not available by gentlemen. Look at the laws of Germany and other organizations and see this moral value, and we'll see that they're calculated. The education strategy that was passed. I can also commend the Ministry of Education that after many years this Education Strategy has been developed, but it has not relied enough on teaching nor on rich Serbian experience, but on recommendations and orders from European centres. I'm talking about what my predecessor used to talk about. She already has no education in her name. I'll show you. Here's the strategy. It bears the title – Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2020. Chairman, if they don't find it interesting, some MPs leave, not to interfere. I'm saying this because of the representatives of the Ministry and the citizens, and not because of you gentlemen who don't find this interesting. The education development strategy in Serbia by 2020 rather than bearing the title – Education and Education Strategy. Believe it or not, if you've read it, and I believe it is because we've got it, up to 15 pages in no sentence is the word raising. Here, take a look, and you'll see how much we hold until we're brought up. The strategy did not go to this congregation. She was brought by the government. There was reading, but it was not a waste to be found among the MPs. The development of education and education has been moving within the framework of paradoxes and contradictions for the past 10 years. Constantly, all governments have declared and promised reforms from previous to present, while at the same time making material fundamentals of education and education more difficult conditions for the pedagogical professional training and monitoring of innovation. Teachers know it very well in primary and secondary schools. Children's papers, magazines, they've been shut down. It's harder to go to seminars. Centralization of management in institutions created a counterproductive atmosphere of uncertainty and fear, passiveity in schools. We've expelled from teaching classes the content that speaks of patriotism. With that word, individuals in this House laughed back three years, not to say that the word was not to be used. We bring history as a teaching subject to a minimum. These contents of patriotism need to be returned urgently to teaching programs, and history as a mandatory teaching course from fifth to eighth grade in primary school with two hours and in high school with two hours regardless of which direction. It would be good to return what we've kicked out of listening to music from the fourth grade of elementary school. We threw out either the March on Drin or the Serbian language Ivan Goran Kovačić "The Cave, the tenth singing". Also, content in the field of protection and promotion of human environment should be returned through all teaching subjects. There were words here that a special course should be dealt with. Gentlemen of the Ministry, you've initiated it very well for the first time in the law, which is good. But I have to say, in practice, we don't do the ecology the way she really should. I must say that the former environmental minister in the former government had a slogan -- let's clean Serbia, instead of setting up a slogan -- let's not get dirty on Serbia. I'll tell you why, but he used to take for such billboards 500,000 euros, not from the press, but from the DRI. More and more NGOs promote the slogan "Let's use the right syringe when it comes to drugs", instead of "Let's not drug ourselves, let's not drug our children". This is what I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because we're constantly dealing with the consequences instead of the causes and that's the problem. That's the problem with these laws. The laws are well-set, gentlemen of the Ministry, but in practice we are often, due to neglect of the educational function of the school and the factors of education, then we deal with the consequences rather than the causes. It's a good thing you put into the law a prominent role in protecting and promoting the human environment and putting it as one of the elements of the school's annual work plan. I totally understand why you put this on, even though it shouldn't be in the law, because it was neglected. I believe you wanted to emphasize the function of environmentalism in life in general. When it comes to the establishment of a university, two sentences about them, because the system must be unique from primary school to university, we should stick to European criteria. That's what some colleagues here used to say today, but ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by these standards, every million people come to one university. Where are we in Serbia today? And we're doing the opposite, we have, I think, seven state universities and eight private ones, I've heard even the ninth that private establishment, fifteen, and we don't have 15 million residents. For that number, we should have about 15 million inhabitants, so instead of Europe, we go to Africa. That's what we in law bring one thing, we practice another, and for what reason, you know it very well. As many district departments as there are, no one knows. Why do we have too many universities? Because it's the easiest way to make money, and bribery and corruption and crime, and it's an unprecedented scale. The course is performed, quote: "in bricks, gyms and cinema halls" – "Politika", 20.11.2010, believe it or not, and report from the Chief Inspector. It's our reality. So, the law is one thing, and in practice we're doing the other. Nepotism that threatens education and education to destroy it, as a form of criminal behavior, in schools and universities reigns. In one educational institution, we have five employees from the same family, not to mention that the head of the family is a dean of the university. That's us. That's Serbia today. As the predecessor said, we need to see what we are today and what happens in the future. In order to improve education and education, it is necessary to reorganise the Ministry of Education first to make it more functional, more efficient. The Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education should be raised to the place it belongs, to improve education and education, not to establish new education agencies. Take a look at the assignment. I ask you, Chairman, to appease the Members of Parliament, even if it is from my MP group, or I will indeed end it, break it up. I'm doing this for a single Lord and I'm not talking here... (President: I apologize. I really ask the MPs not to comment from the scene. Here you go. )......................................................................................................... I'm speaking for a representative of the Ministry and individual MPs who find this interesting. So this agency has the same task, if you've seen and compared, as well as the Training and Education Institute, is the same goal. If you were going to reorient the Bureau and those two institutions to the agency, then I'll welcome it, not to take new people, but that should have been emphasized or explained. The transformation of school from education to educational institution must be done urgently. We brought in militias instead of educators and educators. Ladies and gentlemen, we can introduce them instead of 250, Mr. Minister, today as many as we have in schools, another 10,000, but we who have been in pedagogues all our lives know that we will not improve education by introducing cops. The introduction of the militia into school is a final recognition that our educational function is at the lowest point in the history of pedagogy. That's what the college professors who are teachers of pedagogy know very well, as well as those who know the history of pedagogy well. Instead, we return the traditional factors of education, redefine their contents, and we will have a good educational situation in schools. I'll give you an example. We have so far had a moral education of one of the tasks – a relationship to social property. What have we done here? Nothing. Changed social property, stayed the same task. Instead, we could change this task, the relationship to private and possibly state property and determine the content, take from the previous task and the new content. We left it, we left the mess, and that's why we have the educational situation that we currently have. I appeal, gentlemen of the Ministry of Education, to you and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia to remove Serbia from the pillar of shame in Europe by doing and inaction, which teaching workers, educators, teachers and teachers, teachers, teachers, educators did not receive national pensions, while wealthy athletes are, and whose products are occasional cups and medals, while the products of the teaching army for the Department of People, Intellectual Capital, Financial and Cultural Capital, Freedom and Democracy. This national shame in the 21st century knowledge society, in the world-class, wolf and pelagic Serbia, would be strongly condemned by the leader of Karadjordje and his very respected first patron, the more enlightened, your last name, Mr. Minister, Dositej Obradovic. So enter this into the Law on Education and Education in order to raise teachers to pedestal society, learning, knowledge and freedom and democracy of the 21st century. In the end, let me say it. To date, the field of primary and secondary education has been governed by three laws, the Law on the Foundations of the System, Education and Education, the Law on Primary School and the Law on High School. So two areas of education and education were regulated by three laws needlessly. I'd like someone to tell me what it's about. With these three laws, there has been chaos in education and education, teachers know it well. My survey among teachers and teachers at primary school says that 40% of them do not know at all that there is a roof law on the basis of education and education, but only the Law on basic education and education. This situation was to be interrupted by the adoption of two of these new laws, without the Law on the founding of the system, or the roof law. If it's the Law on the Foundations of the System, I'm talking about a system of education and education, why not talk about higher education, or why you think you've kicked him out of your education and education system. There's not one word. So, such roof laws don't even have a country in the environment, and it's nowhere in Europe, and we want it in the EU. We want European criteria. Often, the same tasks are intertwined in both. All the necessary solutions were to be incorporated into the Law on Fundamental Education and Education and the Law on Middle Education and Education. This is how we keep the chaos, if you will, and legally. Finally, to say that in all the laws there are very good solutions, that some things have initiated that are not previous laws, so the question is how will they be implemented in practice. This also depends on the adoption of new curricula and programmes that need to be redefined urgently. I therefore propose to the Ministry that, under emergency, together with colleges, define the general objective of education and education from which specific objectives and tasks would arise, to develop a national qualification framework, which I specifically did not want to talk about, is unimaginable. Next, an emergency law on higher education. I don't know why he wasn't brought in as part of this, because that's where we have the most problems. The most urgent needs to be brought in transformed curricula and programmes for individual teaching courses for primary and secondary schools and urgently, the most urgent approach to the nosetriification of our diplomas. We've had one listening and it's chaos. It may be a shame for us to not encourage. Our children end up in Cambridge and other European universities to nostrify a diploma from two months to five years, from 200 euros, I quote, up to 2,000 euros. The average of Europe is 75 euros. We can pass all the laws, but if we don't implement them in practice, and that's only possible with good inspection supervision, which is on a very low level because it too needs to be reorganized, there will be nothing of these laws. Gentlemen, I invite you from the opposition and the positions to vote in favour of these laws. Why? Because they initiated a mass of things that didn't have previous laws. If there were more things to cover, they should have, but they had to go into root reform. The root reform was due to begin in 2000. Are we gonna get out of this crisis by patching up these laws? We probably will, because I think we've been over half of things, redefine. So I invite you to vote for this and make a small contribution, not to the Ministry of Education, to us and to the laws, but to our children. Believe that he will be grateful to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18124	After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Djuric called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18125	Your Honors Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'm advocating a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. What have you done to us, Mr. Babice, with this proposal to extend the debate? I guess this would take a little bit shorter. The previous one spoke for 28 minutes. He criticized and insulted everyone in this country, and then invited us to vote in favour of the law. I particularly advertised the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, and you did not respond to it, Mr Arsenovic, when Mr Atlagic said that there is a question in Serbian families and that there is no question of government in this parliament. I'm sorry, there's no question in this House, at least lately, even if people don't water themselves here, swear, and don't wear underpants in the assembly sessions. This is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a high home, not a hilly mountain assembly, this is not an SAO community, this is a country that has existed for a long time. Please, Mr Arsenovic, protect all the MPs in this House and the very institution of the National Assembly and, in future, prevent Mr Atlagic from getting his own report from consulting Makarska '73. or something like that, that at least it doesn't insult the National Assembly in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18126	It is true that Mr Atlagic used those words, but I interpreted it more as his figurative exposure to general behavior. I do not believe that he purposely intended to harm the dignity of the Assembly, and I do not believe that in that sense the Rules of Procedure was even injured. However, you have the right to ask that in the voting day we make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Are you up for it? Boyan Đurić, from the place: Yes. So, in the day of the vote, we'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, by hurting the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to a replica. [[Marko Atlagic, from the place: Looking for a replica, mentioned me directly.]] Mr Đuric made a complaint about the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, not you. He didn't mention you in that sense, but that I didn't respond to your exposure, which means that I hurt the Rules of Procedure for Đurić's understanding. Therefore, you have no right to a replica. (Marko Atlagic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, reporting under Article 103. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18127	I'm just going to say one sentence, and I have no intention of giving up a replica, just to say I'm really sorry if I offended someone, and I don't think I mentioned anyone. I am pleased that some have recognized themselves in my discussion, even if she was from Makarska from the 1970s, as the gentleman said, and perhaps from '68, even if this is a lecture for a scientific gathering from the domain of education and education. I know what a word is most offensive to a gentleman, it's patriotism, because from these parliamentary benches they've made fun of in this assembly. It's a gentleman, I'll call him directly, Žarko Korach. I'll quote the date, because you know I don't speak by heart, etc. So here they mocked patriotism. I apologize to Mr. Djuric, but I didn't mention him. Why did he even react I really don't know, but I recommend that his visions and criticism of my exposure that in some scientific journal or daily list, we can continue the debate, because these are purely professional topics, not political ones. Probably Mr. Djuric is a teacher or a primary school teacher. If so, then we can go through professional magazines, because this is about reforming education and education. Once again, I apologize if I have offended anyone. As far as family's concerned, this has been hard on me, I have to tell him that there are more murders in families today than 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18128	Mr. Atlagic, I must tell you that you have abused the Rules of Procedure. You advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you had a replica. Please follow the Rules of Procedure, or I will be forced to apply appropriate measures. Don't put me in that position. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18129	Vice-President of Parliament, you have granted a brutal insult to the second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Zarko Korac. Mr Atlagic accused him of the absence of patriotism, i.e. the betrayal of Mr Koraq. A lot of people have been killed in this country on charges like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18130	I'm sorry, what member did you call in?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18131	Article 107. I'm asking you best to stop it. As far as terminology is concerned, it seemed to me, Mr. Atlagic, that it was '73 because you mentioned the militia several times, and it is not yet 22 years old in our country. That's all I thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18132	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, the word has a folk MP, Svetislava Bulajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18133	Thank you. Dear Chairman, the minister is not presently present, but I will also welcome him, team members and fellow MPs, and I am afraid that I will probably be a bit academic after these discussions, and perhaps even boring. Thinking about such a complex proposal to unify the debate when it comes to this number of educational laws, I gave myself a theme and thought about talking to you about whether we have any education for modern society and development, how it comes to it, whether these changes that were offered before us and where there's a difference between strategy, vision and possibilities to implement it in practice, but I can't stay immune to what just happened, so I had to reverse the way I think and check the situation with the coalition agreement and the political objectives of the government. See astonishment, education and science are defined as priorities, and then the coalition agreement discusses the continuation of the reform process. Personally, I consider myself an opposition in the fullest sense of the word, by defining a constructive opposition, but I was afraid of this much constructiveity when it comes to the ruling coalition, so I'm going to try in some way to reduce that amount of construction and to get a little bit of law before us. What I wanted to go into my debate was the fact that Mr. Minister spoke of. He said the improvement of the legal framework is a prerequisite for strengthening reform tendencies and specifically cited the educational role of the school that has already been discussed and strengthened ties with the social partners. Since I am in a sense double bound to the subject because I am someone who comes from the education system, but is currently talking to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I do feel a personal responsibility to say that someone more fundamental and significant, a better improvement of the legal framework cannot, in any event, lead to such ambitious achievement of the objectives in a possible case, this can only be an assumption, and in this sense, I really hope that the resolution ministry will think about more comprehensive reforms in the future, of the adoption of some other laws. It is correctly noted that one law absolutely is missing everyone's eyes, it is the Law on Higher Education. Since it's part of the educational process that I come from and I can say from that side that all these changes we're talking about in relation to primary and secondary education really sound nice on paper. But those kids we face when they become freshmans one day, they very brutally tell us that some of the data we've been hearing, and some were very dramatic. So, it starts with what the material conditions are in our school system, from counting the number of toilets to what are really our successes when it comes to recording according to some European and world-renowned standards and indicators such as successes or failures on the PISA tests and so on. I just think it's really necessary to think about some ways that this system better connects, how it can breathe. I think it is quite clear that this will be difficult if such constructiveity was present and when reforms were announced for the budget and budget rebalancing because the participation of education in the overall budget, when it comes to funding, are indeed minor. If we even comfort ourselves with the data that this is not significantly less than some of the countries in the region, it is indeed less important than the countries in the EU, and then by raising quality, it is really difficult to achieve. What is also very important when it comes to these laws ahead of us and the absence, as I said, these visions and some essential reforms may also come from that which, in this little earlier mention of the coalition's objectives, is that reforms will continue to imply a kind of continuity, not discontinuity, which in itself doesn't have to be good or bad. What is more remarkable to me in all of this is the creation of assumptions about a strategic definition that will be significantly different and more effective, if this is the goal of all of us, really hard to identify, since it is the fact that with such changes, and I will not dare to call it cosmetic, and some of the coalition members have even said that, therefore, it is the forest of regulations and I would say more about some momentum of the strategy. The strategy was re-designed until 2020. It's in some coloroquial sense really tomorrow, and I think that thing has to be re-distributed somehow. So, without some deeper vision of how we all want to achieve what we want, which is to become a society of knowledge, this is what Mr. Minister and I have already sexed about when we talked about changing the Law on Higher Education. It's a process, it's an absolute process, it's something that's obviously problematic, which takes enormous power, huge time and enormous endurance. In addition to material resources, these are primarily people who are a capital part of the whole process. More than a third of our population is actively involved in the education system in various roles whether students, students, teachers etc. What's very significant is that if we don't have other resources, we have this huge human potential. There is a rash, and these are the terms that we have argued about, there is a demographic decline, but it is still a large number of young people who need to sort of bring out reforms not only in the education system but in the overall society. Without it, it seems to me that we are going to find some major shifts very difficult. What I'm saying is that this set of laws is, to a large extent, a reflection of the current state, of a kind and of inert if you can agree with me and about it, and something that is very dangerous when considered in a more complex and complex way when it comes to necessity, not only continuity in reforms but also significant shifts. Although it is very difficult to reach valid indicators, at least those who can fit the world’s and European standards, it is clear that we are coming here and that we are not on the right track. What is also very important in order to achieve some effects when it comes to reforming education at all is to finally tackle this quality of education, not only their indicators, measurements and so on but also their quality. In which way you can raise quality, raise interest. The question of motivation today has been raised several times in the tide. It's hard to judge both by the audience and by those who really have been following this closely from the very beginning that there is some over-optimism and motivation on the agenda. Since I come from higher education, if we somehow lead all this to some diplomas, some quality personnel, and then we still experience brain drains, then what we've done. These are then irrevocably lost funds, which are in some way miraculously set aside when it comes to the Serbian budget. What is very important to me, too, is how to strengthen this education sector, not only in terms of innovation and creativity but also in a valuable sense. I mean quite the opposite when the values are in relation to some of the previous speakers but it is very important that, in my opinion, and I deeply believe that, in the confidence of most of the members of my LDP parliamentary club, it is a knowledge society, a permanent learning that I absolutely need to increase some other valuable criteria that will be crucial to this society. If you encounter data and relevant research published in the NIN at the end of last year that education that should somehow guide us to the spread of democracy and strengthening of humanistic aspects, then you find that young people from 12 to 18 years have a negative attitude towards people of different sexual tendencies, according to atheists, to members of other nationalities, to HIV positive persons and ultimately to excellent students themselves. So that's one percent of 19 percent. So there's animosity to nerds. Please, those nerds are the only option we're going to develop in some way and raise this society. According to this same study, even more interesting, student interest in decision-making on their own education is alarmingly low. It's all nice and I say on paper sounds wonderful, we have student parliaments now, but they need someone really active and to participate and be motivated to participate in such a thing. When it comes to the abundance of these concrete solutions, I think there will be opportunities because we've tabled a lot of amendments to deal with this and to search in particular. I don't want to waste time on these things because there's gonna be more opportunities for that. If there is already talk of what should be a total goal when it comes to the situation in Serbia's education system, I do not think it is possible to avoid the continuation of reforms in much more significant ways in a fundamentally quality way, not just according to the form of a strategy that is the way it is for now. So, on different educational outcomes, to raise a general understanding of the objectives that these educational outcomes must base on and that the results in this regard mean that education must be approached much more analytically, much longer term. One of the things that falls into my eyes is that when it comes to these multidisciplinary researches of education reform at all, not only in Serbia but also in the world, they are also very often understood here as irrelevant scientific activity, which is a very interesting and very important research that would have to in some way help this cross-sectoral coordination that has very little. So, not only the comprehensiveness of the reform as such, but the clear definition, why not, first the short-term, then the medium-term, and then the long-term goals... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. Clear division of responsibilities and a much more elaborate way of monitoring the effectiveness and implementation of the reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18134	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18135	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister Obradovic, the representatives of the ministry, at first I must point out that we have a set of education laws before us and what our suggestion is that we could in several discussions discuss these kinds of education. So, not to extend the time for discussion and discussion, to double the time, but we were able to talk about these laws individually, because the topic is extremely important and causes great controversy. In addition to all this, I must say that participation in the principle debate will be taken by 63 MPs plus 12 authorised MPs, which is 75, in fact, one third of the MPs took part in this debate, which speaks of the complexity of the laws themselves. So, apart from causing controversy, she has also brought great attention to the professional public, to the controversy between the unions and the Ministry of Education, etc. For this set of laws, the public expects a lot. First of all, to get an answer to the question of where our education system is going. Furthermore, can the reform that the ministry is now propagating be implemented in our education system? Is society and our education system ready for certain European fluids, since it is recommended that this law approaches European legislation? Secondly, in order for some laws to be applied in a country, the state must be legally strong in every part of its territory. What interests me here is whether after the adoption of one of these laws, this law package, these laws will apply to KIM, given that the Brussels Agreement is signed and that institutions in that part of Serbia will be abolished and that our state is in fact and de jure disowning that part of its territory? It's a question that no one knows the answer to right now. Or does he know, and he doesn't want to say it in public? The tradition of schooling in Serbia since 1958 is that we have free basic education, that we have free but not mandatory and secondary education and that should be considered. Perhaps we should have mandatory secondary education, for a simple reason because the state of education of our population is unsatisfactory and intolerable, since we have only 7% of Serbian educational citizens and about 21% with a finished primary school, which says that this educational profile is not really on one envious level. Also, you said, Mr. Minister, that the state is a little isolated in the education budget – 3.5% to 4% of gross social product, while, remember this, gentlemen of the Europeans, countries that have now entered the EU are about 5% single for education and education, while 96% goes to personal incomes, which is devastating, and only 4% for projects and investment, while in EU countries it's about 73%, if I'm not wrong. What's tragic at this point, and nobody mentioned it, and I'd like to open that topic, it's the physical deformity of our children in primary school. I've had this experience working on a master's work, helping a friend who's mastered and doing research in the Jablani County. We have seen that 74% of children with deformities, which says that the state and the ministry have to do something to introduce them necessarily after four hours of physical education and that these physical education classes are held by professional people, or teachers of physical education. That's one of the ideas I'm promoting and speaking out loud to you, Mr. Minister. The unions had, like I said, a lot of objections about this set of laws. Among other things, it has been said that the Law on Fundamental Education and the Law on Secondary Education and Adult Education is laws passed in the mandate of the previous Government, while this law on the foundations of the education system has been adopted in one express way. We at the DSS understand you here. Since we've adopted a strategy, you've had to pass one of the roof laws. Whether that law is good or not, we'll discuss it. The unions had a lot of objections about it. They even said you suggested they deliver some remarks and suggestions in three days. They delivered, but a very small number of remarks and suggestions were accepted. Also, in all of this, the National Educational Council was only involved when the law was ready for the government, so that their suggestions were not accepted when it came to implementing certain objections to this law. I'll look back on their remarks. First of all, that's what you said in your presentation and your exposé, they are complaining about certain legal provisions that need to be changed, which is funding by the head of the students, as well as prolonging until 2021, as well as increasing the number of students in the department. I'm afraid of something else, which is that these legal provisions lead to the rationalization of jobs in education. I defend this position of my colleagues and unions that suggest that these legal provisions should be thrown out of these laws, but I am from another aspect of this. I mean, the demographic aspect. I come from Jablanic County, where the demographic population is so that people move out of individual villages, for the simple reason it's a poor neighborhood, and they don't see any perspective. Some departments are shutting down. And you know very well, Mr. Minister, if the village has no teachers, no priests and no doctors, that village is waiting for death. For these reasons, I expect you to accept the ministry's suggestions, to be correct and collegiate both towards the professors themselves, and also to have the state take a strategic stand towards these border and border posts. I want to refer to the adult education law. It's a good thing the state is dealing with this problem. After 13 years of transition, many people have lost their jobs, are at the employment office, on the labour market, and must certainly be given a chance. However, the College of Directors who held the meeting on this law has sent you certain suggestions through the Education Sector, in the sense that they think that the state favors secondary schools and that the network of schools that have already done that part of adult education is slowly marginalizing. They're in some legal vacuum. Also, they fear for certain jobs, especially for teachers who will receive a 56% salary. That's precedent. Normally, by your regulation, you can fix that condition, which they suggest. They probably have a promise that you'll regulate it. But it's absurd that at this point, the teacher who teaches at adult education school is declared a technological surplus of 56%. It's nonses. For those reasons, I'd ask you to start thinking about how to fix that part of the space. I had to say all this because of my colleagues from the School of Education of Adults Dositej Obradović, who suggested all of this to me and who asked you to take a look at these suggestions that the Director's Directorate has given you. They're 72 and they're telling you about this problem. Mr. Minister, you probably had a good will to pass one of the quality and good laws. I don't argue with that. However, time will show whether these laws are good. I'm afraid of something else, that maybe over a year, two or in your term of office, we won't have amendments and additions to these laws, not because the law might be so bad, but that we'll have political pressures, because you'll have social pressures from the unions and a lot of other pressures. Mr. Minister, it is incomprehensible for me that we are adapting our laws to Europe's legislation, and this Europe does not want us in its care. You can see for yourself that they don't give us a date for negotiations, let alone being admitted into the European family, that political conglomerate. For these reasons, I do not see what will happen if the EU disappears in a few years or dissipates, to whom will we approach our laws?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18136	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18137	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today I will talk about the Law on Adult Education and the Law on Middle Education. I believe that in the current discussion that we have had we have not devoted enough time to a new legal solution that will definitely lead to a solution to the problems that we have so far had in the form of the accreditation of programmes and organisations that will carry out and implement informal, i.e. non-institutional, educational aspects. I believe that the set of these education laws is coherent and competitive with the Education Development Strategy and we come to a quality legal framework and, given the facts and certain analysis, we are even ahead of all countries in the region, of course, if we adopt these laws, in this sense legal legislation that will give us the opportunity to speed up education both formally and informally. I think that in the time in which we live, we simply have to bear in mind one of the great importance of informal education. It is an indisputable formal education, both basic, medium and high. We have a lot of problems here, and we will have to put a lot of effort into speeding up the situation in this domain, especially in quality policy and in relations and relations between the needs of our country's economy and education profiles that are being educated in our secondary schools, of course and in the context of highly educated institutions. However, informal education is an education that provides what is very important for the labour market in the modern developed world. For the process of developing entrepreneurship, these are skills and additional abilities that are upgrades to formal education. I'm just going to point out that in the United States, the most competitive are those people who have as many as 88% of cases with built skills and who apply that philosophy of lifelong learning and who have one whole set of qualifications and those who adapt to market conditions and the current economic situation. Unfortunately, we in our country have one such opportunity to, behold, one analysis has shown that as many as 34,000 people in our country will rather choose to take severances in this period and to wait for a pension at the National Employment Service than to accept any form of requalification and requalification and try to make their own business initiatives in the private sector market. I'm going to say just one negative example that's been going on in many public enterprises, like Telecom, like Elektroprivreda. You have a situation in Galennica, where in the management of Galenika, the state has determined that about 300 workers have been defined as excess employees. They were offered options for severance and social programme, some requalification and qualification programmes, and only 30 out of 300 reported to be on the programme, and three agreed to go on the programme and engage further in the competition. So, this is about one need not only to change legislation, but it's about the need to change consciousness, change mentality, not only for older people, I'm going to talk about it a little later, but also for children, students who are in high school, that they simply have to bear in mind that in the 21st century their existence, the development of a professional career and everything that is related to the quality of their lives, are related to the private sector, their initiative and their knowledge. Of course, it is about implementing a clear philosophy and lifelong learning policy and lifelong education for each individual. I'll also list certain suggestions that I have in addition to what the law defines. In particular, I would refer to that the Law on adult education defines that the Institute for the Advancement of Education and Education should keep records of legal persons and entrepreneurs who are not organizers of adult education activities, who are doing practical work. The experience of Germany, the experience of Slovenia, the experience of France tells us that it should be done by commercial chambers, that it should be done by employers' associations, craft chambers, because they already have a large number of companies in their database. Of course, it is not difficult to upgrade the list of organisations, trade unions, and all others who can deal with adult education under this law. What is the same additional quality of this law is that, as in the higher education sector, accreditation of programmes and accreditation will be introduced, with clear standards of those institutions, organisations that will be able to implement non-formal education programmes, because finally in this country it is understood how important it is for our young people and for those who lose their jobs in the labour market to have and should be overqualified and need to qualify to be able to manage that labour market more easily. Also, this law goes in favour of what we can't achieve for 20 and a few years in our country, which is that we have a flexible labour market where the workforce will move freely, where it will be normal for companies in their corporate ventures to shut down, they can get into trouble and that it's not the end of the world if they lose their jobs, but that in one proactive way they seek another or start a new enterprise initiative. When it comes to accreditation of programmes and accreditation of adult education organisations, I think the best solution is that there is one roof organisation or that it is entrusted to the Commission for accreditation and quality checks, which already exists when it comes to the higher education system, because we already have the infrastructure, we have people dealing with higher education, and I don't think it would be a problem to save in this way and save on costs, and that the more dynamic and faster this law is implemented and that we get the best we can, the better quality programs and people who will be more ready for the competition in our country, but what if not in the region. I would also refer to this when it comes to the withdrawal of the approval for adult education. The Law states that approval of those who have broken the law can be reissued. I think that adult education and obtaining a certificate, that is, accreditation, belief, is such a serious thing, that if someone breaks in that domain the law that he should never get that approval again. I consider this to be one of the key aspects of the development of our education and the development of our personnel. When it comes to the law on secondary education, I would point out one situation that we have in our country, of course the minister and representatives of the ministry talked about having fewer children and having more and more places in schools. I believe that, in some ways, secondary vocational education, and especially that crafts are minorized in this particular domain and that there are great needs. We are also going to have a strategy of re-industrialisation, and in this country, someone will have to deal with these trades and professional affairs, and in that respect, he tells us that we have and we will have big projects. We're going south as a big project. Who we're going to hire there if we don't have an armyman, if we don't have installers, if we don't have electricians and there we need to change the consciousness of not only young people but also their parents, not in that area to change him from parliament, but to carry out certain educations so that parents can simply direct their children to those interests they can work with, with which they can immediately, so soon after they've finished schooling to get into the process of work. (President: Time, Mr. Marinkovic. I'm done. I'm just going to say that we're going to submit an amendment that will extract entrepreneurship from the middle education programme, and we think entrepreneurship is one of the most important items, the most important aspects that will determine the future of our country's economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18138	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18139	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today it is impossible to consider the development capacities of a society unless we are talking about education, unless we are talking about the social capital of a society, unless we are talking about its human resources. Improving education is an integral part of the debate. For DS education, the education system is one of the priority national issues. It is equally important for all citizens of our country, whether they have children or not, whether they are young or old, whether their children are just moving to the first grade, or whether they should pay university education for their older children. I think we've all shared in this debate one dissatisfaction with the education system that exists in Serbia and that's the fact. Children are unhappy, children don't like school, schools are no longer a meeting place, they're not a place where an objectively developed modern creative potential develops. Teachers, teachers have long not had the necessary reputation and authority in one society, which wants to develop in a modern way, parents are not satisfied, teaching methods are long overcome, we fail in that segment to catch up with the world. The test results, regardless of some improvements, continue to speak of the very high degree of functional illiteracy of our younger generation. In Serbian history, has the school ever actually had less authority and less reputation than it has today? Has knowledge in Serbia ever been less important in a public world and a view of life? Our main task today is to see how we can solve two problems. One thing first is to improve the scope, and the other is to increase the quality of our education. I think it's the main topic and these discussions and these laws that we're all discussing here today. How and how can we measure the effects of our current, decades of investment in education? Look, we introduced a mandatory primary school education over 50 years ago. We today have 22% of the population who do not have a complete primary school, at least according to the data from the strategy, quote the strategy and some other statistics. There is still a high percentage of what the European average does not get into primary school, we call it pouring. It's better called leaving school. We still have a growing gap between the village and the city compared to the coverage of children in primary school. Of course it's been working in the most sensitive groups, but it's the same problem for decades. So how can we measure the effects of our investments, financial, human and all others that we do for education? My colleagues, MPs, have been talking about how bad our education statistics are. Let us look at one example of illustration just for the sake of – how many decades we have invested in teaching foreign languages in our schools. When measured through generations of language knowledge in Serbia, at least based on the knowledge provided by the school, is extremely low. It may have improved, Mr. Minister, but it's low, given the investments we've been making in the education system for decades. Today we are talking about amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, basic education, secondary education, etc. In 2011, when we passed this roof law, we praised it for why it really took a very important step forward in relation to the value setting of the education system. He introduced some new institutes, redefined the objectives and outcomes of the education system. However, it always amazes me somewhere in which way and why we can't keep these new institutes, valuable settings to keep somewhere for a long time and as soon as we come across some obstacles, some already financial challenges, some human problems in the area of human resources, we give up and take a step back. I think it's happening right now in the good part with this roof law, no matter what good it is and in the most part its good solutions remain. But why, Mr. Minister, without any reason, you propose to delete a provision in the law, a roof law, which determines that education and respect for diversity are the goal. What moved us to delete and respect diversity among all other provisions in that valuable member, is not respecting diversity, or lack of respect for diversity one of the most important problems that we must solve as a society? The dialogue between different people, people of different opinions is something that we miss very much. School's supposed to teach kids from the earliest age. I don't know why we're erasing it. Mr. Minister, why are we reintroducing the possibility of opening special departments for students with developmental interference? It's being introduced as a possibility, it doesn't have to happen, but we've just launched an inclusive education in a very modern way in the previous period. We also praised that in the previous assembly of this House. Of course, if applying inclusive education isn't easy, of course it costs something, of course our local self-government and our schools aren't well prepared for it, but let's not take a step back now, so let's say -- well, now we're going to cancel it out a little bit and reduce the effects of it, it's like this paradigm with aflatoxin, we introduce a European standard, but then we have a little problem in application, then we're going to go back a step. That's not the answer. Let's maintain one system. You cannot measure any changes in the education system if you do not have one longer period of application of that solution. We in the DS are opposed to postponing the first-class enrolment proposed by this law, based on the opinion of the Interresor Commission. The existing solution we had so far was one big step that made it primarily to reduce the number of requests for a stay of enrolment, which affected the trust involved and enrolment of children in the first grade of primary school. Why should we now allow a stay of enrolment based on the demands of parents and the opinion of the Interresor Commission? We will first and foremost separate the child from his generation. What's he gonna do that year after he finishes one mandatory preschool program? We don't think that's a good solution and that we're also taking a step back. I don't know why Mr. Minister, we're changing the solution set up in 2011, that the National Educational Union has its own word on textbooks, textbook suggestions, the need for textbooks? Why is it that an independent institution, we know how it is chosen, has very credible members, why we take away that right and transfer everything to the Education and Educations Institute, which is a professional body. I'm not questioning that, but I think it'd be better if we kept an existing solution. In the end, why are we introducing the Education and Education Agency with these changes? Today when we all talk about the need to reduce public spending, that we need to review the work of all agencies, this government eventually began its mandate by talking about the agency's work being analyzed somewhere. So my opinion and the opinion of the DS is that the National Education Council has enough capacity to deal with those tasks that are put into the authority of the Agency by this draft law. As far as these laws we're talking about today, of course, there are eight within this agenda point and there's very little opportunity for each of us to talk details about all the solutions. That's why I've listed some solutions that cause us to worry and doubt that some things will go back. Of course, there are some good solutions. But what seems to me to be a very big question -- do we affirm these laws some principles that, at least for us in the DS, are extremely important, and that is primarily the equality of children, on the other hand justice and third, what is equality of chance. I think we need to analyze how these laws will have an effect on different local communities, on different parts of our country. If we analyze how much power it takes for a young man from southern Serbia, from Timočka krajina, Raska to overcome all the obstacles he has on the way to get to the chance that he has a higher education than his peer from a big city like Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, however you will, these are huge differences. We need to define some mechanisms that will reduce these differences, something that will be corrective. So we are surprised at why, for example, you predict one provision, that free transportation of children, i.e., students are predicted only for a distance that is more than four kilometers away. In our belief, even two kilometers is a long distance for children of primary school age who go from first to fourth grade. We're proposing to the amendments some changes in that direction. There's one more thing that's being asked here as a political question. These laws focus a lot of programmes on the local level, and no increase in transfers for these programmes to local self-government is foreseen. Are we going to say it that way – you know, we've passed a good law but it's within the jurisdiction of local self-government? Local self-government has less and less budgets. We recently talked about tax laws, and we saw what devastating effects would be on the development of social policy, education and everything else in local self-government. How are we supposed to solve this issue? It is great that we are predicting decentralisation in the field of education, but it requires significant resources. As far as the law on secondary education is concerned, it's good that we bring it. I would like to commend one thing that this law provides for, which is a committee to monitor religious education, for religious teaching. It's about time we defined it. I have tabled one amendment proposing that two members of the Serbian Parliament's Education Committee be involved in the work of this commission. For what reason? Mr. Minister will remember, we talked about it, I've asked some questions of my own time about the effects of religious teaching. There's very little available information about that. I think that MPs, above all, and the board of directors, but we all here, need to have information on how religious teaching is taking place, what are the problems, which is involving children. So we want to have one statistic, one analysis of how religious teaching takes place. I think it's very important for every country and every society that is laity-determined to have one such analysis. So I think it would be a good solution to include MPs in the work of the Committee on Religious Education. In the end, we keep talking about the status of the teaching staff. Their position is getting harder for years, their motivation is weakened. But on the other hand, I think we have to say that their enthusiasm, which we sometimes see in our everyday life, is something that we have to commend with a very large number of those who are trying to overcome the resistance to reform and get involved in some modern flows. It's something that gives the incentive to continue reform. Our programs are bad. I've recently had the opportunity to see ten-year-olds who question each other, or check knowledge from an object, probably nature and society, about the years of the start of World War I, the Second World War, children of 10 years of age, who have no sense of any historical dimension, are looking at some factography of history. I'm sure they'll be able to understand it better in time. At the same time, their peers in Great Britain learn history by drawing in groups some medieval castles, military fortresses, using knowledge from literature, music, art, to link it to knowledge from history. It's a modern method of learning today. That's what we have to strive for. I think we're overly burdened by our children's factography, and without the possibility, in fact, we're not giving them a chance and a chance to properly use their knowledge from different subjects combinedly, to learn to solve problems etc. I think the strategy, and it's a very important thing to consider, is very clearly determined, i.e. it finds that our schools hardly develop artistic and cultural literacy at all, nor the basic cultural needs and habits needed to develop value views. These are the things we need to talk about. It is certain that the problems are numerous and that we must look at them cross-eyed. Of course we need to talk about the rationality and rationalization of our education system, but by talking about it with the population and economic but pedagogical efficiency. In the end, I have to say that I don't think these laws that we're talking about today, except that some of them confirm the situation that already exists and, to some extent, predict its promotion, but I don't think they're going to change it for the better, but I don't think it's going to spoil much. Why? Because we're very weak in implementation. I think there will be a delay in applying many solutions and we will soon have a step back, because some of the institutes and mechanisms offered will prove to be poorly enforceable. What I think can make a fundamental change in our understanding of education is one big campaign, both political and professional and all public workers, teachers, teachers and parents, to really change the perception of education. If we can make such a political and social consensus, I think we will only take one step in one's view that education is one of the most important national issues. In that case, if we act in accordance with this consensus, then there will be no debate on educational laws, education laws being one of the latest news on the national journal. In all European countries, that would be the first news. That's what parents and students and teachers and teachers would talk about, and that's the European standard, and that's what we want to pursue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18140	Thank you. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the mandate of the People's Parliament of the Republic of Election Commission on the allocation of the National MP's mandate in order to complete the seat of Parliament in the National Assembly. Also, you have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zlatko Dragoljevic, elected from the electoral list "Selectment for a Better Life – Boris Tadic". On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of Members of the People, I find that the mandate of MP Zlatko Dragosavljevic is confirmed. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. Dear People's MP, please, under Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of a national envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice for the best of my knowledge. "I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath and allow me to wish you successful work together. Congratulations. We're continuing our work. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18141	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will take the opportunity to congratulate my colleagues personally, and I would like to ask now, if we can, to return to the subject on our agenda. Today's debate for me was very inspiring and, with fewer exceptions, I think it has made a really significant contribution to the question of where we want our education system to go. She, too, respected Mr. Minister, confirmed my position and belief that you are the most powerful minister in the country and that in your hands is the greatest power, because I believe the world does not move the force of the weapon, because I believe the world does not move the power of the money. On the contrary, they can be very destructive and often they are. What drives the world is force and power of knowledge. You these days, and for several years, hold in your hands the key to the greatest treasure of our country that is often very hidden treasures, and these are the potentials of every young man, student, and every citizen of our country. These potentials are an immeasurable resource that we need to put into operation and that is one of the jobs of the education system. The realization of these potentials in the personal plan leads to personal satisfaction and self-accumulation, which is the ultimate motive on the pyramid of motives, those things that essentially drive us in life, and therefore, if we have succeeded, makes us satisfied and creative individuals. It also allows such individuals to contribute together to the economic and developmental power of their country, our Serbia, but it also creates a great potential for political stability, because people who are educated, satisfied, can certainly choose the best among themselves to lead their country's policy. On the other hand, if these potentials are impaired, they can often turn into an active or passive destruction, and that is what, unfortunately, often happens to us on sports grounds, on the streets, to meet dissatisfied young people who are destructive, or very apathetic citizens of our country. That's why this great power you have is a great responsibility. I am pleased that these laws recognize that you are ready to share that responsibility with the whole society, that in this way, by acknowledging this, you have introduced many other factors of our society, which should share with you the responsibility of education and young people and adults in our country. These are, of course, ministries dealing with business and employment and work, but also many other factors, including associations and professional associations, local communities and all others in our society. You, Mr. Minister, said yesterday that you think our education system is good. It's the thesis that we've all been questioning today, so I'm going to have a little sex with her too. What exactly is a good education system? One wise thought says that a good education system is the system that teaches us how much we don't know, what it is that we don't know and how to acquire these knowledge. Is our system like that? I'd say, unfortunately, not in many respects yet. He is good, if we're talking about the amount of information students bring from the system. He is good, if we're talking about the amount of facts, the reproduction of learned knowledge, and probably the acquisition of work habits. Unfortunately, often in the contextism that develops in school and in one, I would say, the general average of young people. What we lack in the education system is the promotion of freedom of opinion, individualisation, creativity, development of competence, application of knowledge, the development of teamwork skills, the development of critical thinking skills, the analysis of the problem and its resolution. It is often reflected in the professor's request that the student reproduce the material, tell it as not dictated to him, say what the professor wants to hear, not to pollute with the professor. You often hear a sentence – it's not yours to think, it's yours to learn etc. I'd say our system is good in the sense that it gives a small number of extremely high-quality and well-educated people and a huge number of averages. Unfortunately, that's how it is when we talk about teaching. One small number of extremely good professors and one huge number of those who do not have enough motivation for their work and do not have enough knowledge and creativity to bring material closer to students in a way that is interesting, challenging and inspiring to them. When we talk about the efficiency of the system itself, our budget for the education system is about 5% of GDP, and this brings us somewhere to a level similar to the countries in the environment, and only slightly smaller than the 27 EU member states, which singles out 5.7% of GDP on average for education. When we talk about the efficiency of spent money, we often talk about coverage. When we talk about coverage, or the rate of enrolment in primary and secondary schools, we are also on average. So we're monitoring the levels that countries have in the environment and we're slightly below the levels that EU countries have. However, when we talk about the number of students enrolled in colleges, we are significantly below that level. We have 49.1% of enrolled students, unlike other countries in the environment and the EU who have 60% - 61% of enrolled students. But what about those enrolled students and students? Their achievements are, unfortunately, low compared to these countries. As many have mentioned, we're still bad on the P.I.A. test. We're in 45th place from 65 places. When we talk about higher education, we have seven private and seven public, or state universities. Of those universities, there is only one, Belgrade University, on the list of 500 best universities in the world. The second-ranked University of Novosad, which is listed from 1.00 to 1,500 of the best universities in Serbia. The best private-ranked university is only somewhere between 5,000 and 10,000 places. We don't have much reason to be proud of those who are highly educated, because they're schooling, unfortunately, at not very competitive colleges. That says our system is still cost-effective. We still have about 35% of the citizens who finished or didn't finish primary school and only 10%, as I said, with a higher education that is obviously not at an envious level. It is true that we, as I said, have extremely good individuals, who carry the glory of our name around the world and are very successful in many educational institutions in the world, but they are, unfortunately, the exception that confirms the rule. What's what's good about these laws? There's a lot of things. First of all, this is what I have already said, the sharing of powers and responsibilities, the inclusion of other systems, the partnership of schools and parents, the involvement of the local community, one step further towards the inclusiveness of the education system, which seems to me, is still much more moved towards students with development disorders, and much less towards students with special talents and abilities. Certainly a very important concept through the Law on adult education is the concept of lifelong learning and let me quote one thought of Lao Cea, who said – that learning is like riding a boat with a stream. So the moment you stop rowing, you go back very much. That's why it's necessary to learn your whole life, and that's what our education system so far has not recognized as a significant fact. This is, of course, what will be made possible by harmonising the requirements of the labour market with the education system, and that is what is one great potential that needs to bring us closer to a greater level of development. Of course, I think the concept of distance learning is a good shift. I share the concerns of colleagues who believe that, unfortunately, it can sometimes be abused and therefore I appeal to you in the law, however, it is only an exception when it is in the best interests of the child. What's important is that you've added to strengthening the laws of rash control, i.e. leaving students from the education system, and I think involving both parents and schools in solving this problem is something that's good. It's really very commendable that you recognized the concept of school sports in law. I think that's something that we've missed so far, our system and our school and our sport, because on the one hand, we've had top-notch sports, and on the other hand we've had some physical lessons most of us have avoided, and that's why I think school sport is something that really needs to be supported and nurtured. Of course, diet, transport is also a significant aspect of these laws that will contribute to more students being included in quality education. Also, affirmation of cultural activities and association with cultural institutions is something that I think is very important and something that has so far been missing from our education system. I especially commend you for once again in the law stressing that the completion of primary school can only be celebrated in schools or in cultural institutions with agreement with the local community. I think that my opinion is shared by most parents and I give you their gratitude, because what our 15-year-old children were turning into that night was not an honor to society or parents or themselves. Also, I share the opinion of those who believe and think that, I think, you've brought some religious instruction into order and brought it back to the coverage of the state. I think it's important because religious communities can't be responsible for what's going on in the education system. It's the job of the state, and I think you've done well with this elegant one, gentle solution. Of course, I imitate you in the fact that you've potentiated an active fight against violence in schools, partnership with your parents, that you've introduced school gyms, career leadership. These are all extremely good solutions and quality shifts. Of course, I also have some objections that other colleagues have made. That's first of all, it's the introduction of special departments, it's the opposite of the concept of inclusion, I don't think it's good. I also think that the postponement of school enrolment should be only exceptional, exceptional and when it is really in the best interest of the students, because I have been working on an assessment of the maturity for enrolment in school and I think that most children are at a certain age mature for enrolment in school. If it is a small emotional immatureness, it can certainly be better achieved at school with its peers. Otherwise, when you separate that child from his generation, it threatens to get deeper into the problem of immatureness. Of course, if we're talking about developmental disturbances, then they won't be compensated for that year by sitting at home just the opposite. Agency. You yourself said in terms of the law that you don't intend to hire new people and that it's something that the system itself will solve, probably better by organising those people who already work in the system. Given that we have an education service and an evaluation agency and a large number of school administrations. I think that in the reorganization or better organisation of all these capacities it is possible to achieve the effects of what you had in mind that the agency should work. I have submitted an amendment that has raised the partnership of parents and schools to a higher level. You've predicted the possibility that a school at every six-year-old polling parents. I've submitted an amendment that I suggested that my parents' polling at the end of the school year be somewhat less than you'd anticipated, but with a higher level of obligation. I believe that it is the obligation of the school to hear parents, to hear every parent, and therefore I think it is good for the survey to be mandatory and that the school must agree its work with what the parents have put as a remark and pointed out as a value. I think the most important evaluation is success. I think that the evaluation should include both students and parents and should be continuous and permanent because our laws are not bad. We have been passing reform laws in the field of education in recent years, but unfortunately, we have children at school and we know that this is rarely applied. How do you get the school to apply it, how do you get teachers and teachers to apply it? Probably through a constant evaluation of their work, through the constant improvement of these professors, and I'd say through a system of quality rewards. I don't think it's true that kids don't like school. I think it's in the nature of every man, especially a young man, to have intellectual curiosity, to have the need to learn and learn. What's the problem is how you present to him what he needs to learn. We have examples of Petnica Research Station, which I know isn't in the system, but it's a great example. We have science festivals. We have a number of other innovative methods that show that children rush to these events, that they're very interested in science, that they're very interested in learning. What we need is to adapt their age to the way they present what they need to learn. That's why I think we should encourage teachers and reward those who do it well. So far, I'm saying that they're at the level of exceptions for the simple reason that it's part of their personal enthusiasm and the fact that they consider their work as a mission. Those with whom that's not the case, they don't do that. I don't think we should leave it to the case and what I believe in is that we made a mistake when we suspended the renewal of the license. I don't think all those who do well should be afraid that their work should be checked for a certain time and should not be afraid to constantly improve their competences and knowledge. Minister, it was 2004 or 2005. You weren't the minister back then. Why? Because I don't think we should give in to the pressure of the union. Ministers, mails don't exist because of postmen, hospitals don't exist because of doctors, the ministry doesn't exist because of ministers, parliament doesn't exist because of MPs, so schools don't exist because of teachers. The child must be at the centre of the system and therefore both trade unions and teachers must adapt to the real needs of the child. I'm gonna get this over with. The great Albert Einstein, apart from the theory of relativity and numerous knowledge in science, has left us with a seemingly fun thought which, I would say, essentially speaks of a concept of reform of education systems. He said – education is what you have left when you forget everything you have learned in school. What did he mean by that? Less memory and reproduction, more innovation, critical thinking, intellectual curiosity that will remain like the lasting treasure that we carry with us from the education system. I think Ministers that you are on the trail of this Einstein concept and to the extent to which it is effectively, courageously, with a lot of energy and fast implementation, to that end you will have the support of the URS and my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18142	Thank you. National MP Snezana Bošković Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18143	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the proposed set of extremely important education laws which are the subject of our today's debate, I believe that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student and Student Standard is worth special attention. This law deserves special attention because it gives us the opportunity to talk about our students and our students who achieve the best results in their education. Support for these young people, in terms of providing even better conditions for education and achieving top results, must be the subject of our society's special attention, especially today, when all the good people do not have the material conditions to continue their education without the support of the state. In this regard, I believe that the continuity in providing scholarships and loans for those students and students who achieve the best results in their education is extremely important. In a situation where the number of student scholarships users from year to year has increased significantly, only in the last three years the number of these users has been almost doubled, and when budgets have been limited for this purpose, as logically and only the possible and realistic solution that is being imposed at this time is the solution that the government and the resolution ministry propose through this bill, and the solution is proposed that among the excellent students in the future the best of scholarships. In this connection, it is proposed to amend the criteria for the exercise of the right to use scholarships. The proposed criterion is to increase the average rating from 8.5 to 9. Thus, all students who meet this special condition would be entitled to a scholarship, of course, unless they use other scholarships and loans, e.g. from local communities, businesses, etc. Since this solution does not change the conditions for exercising the right to student credit, it allows students who do not get the right to scholarship to be students of student credit. The average rating of at least 8.5 would be sufficient for them to be released from the obligation to repay the student loan used. On the other hand, the amendments to this law can be an incentive and additional stimulant to excellent students, to achieve good results and to use this kind of support of society in the coming years of their education. In addition to this, the bill provides material support for students and students who possess exceptional abilities and preferences. That's what they're called. Scholarships for highly gifted students and students. The law defines the conditions and procedures for the exercise of this right. It should also be pointed out and stressed that the proposed solutions ensure the safety and continuity of this prestigious scholarship in the single education and education system. This law, among other things, proposes to abolish the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific, Artistic Juvenile, as a special budgetary institution. All rights, obligations, archives and cases are foreseen to be taken over by the ministry responsible for the field of education. This solution is understandable and justified if the costs of functioning of the Fund, organisational difficulties, are borne in mind, as the fact that funds for scholarships for highly gifted students and students are provided exclusively from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and from the position of the Ministry of Education. This fully rationalises the availability of appropriations for loans and scholarships. The most significant solutions set out in this bill make it clear that they are being built and edited by a complete system of material support for students and students, depending on their social economic status and achieved success, as a right to student credit and scholarship and a special scholarship for extremely talented students and students. I stress that legal solutions allow students, i.e. students who receive a scholarship for extremely talented students and students, to achieve this right from the third year of high school to the completion of schooling, that is, from the third year of their studies until the end of their studies. It is important to point out that the proposed amendments to the Law on Student and Student Standards have provided and necessary alignment with the regulations in the field of protection of personal data and with the rules in the area of higher education. Starting from this, I believe that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student and Student Standard is in the best interests of our students and our students, that it offers quality solutions to the problem it is dealing with and that it should certainly be adopted and consistently applied in practice. In addition to the fact that the state provides home accommodation and nutrition to the best students and students under extremely favourable conditions, we can conclude that a comprehensive and systematic approach to student and student standards has been provided. For all these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group, a party who sincerely advocates a constant and consistent material and any other support to our student and student population, will support the bill, as well as other proposed legislation in the field of education discussed by the National Assembly at this session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18144	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18145	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Presidency, I believe we all agree today in this room, that it is an undivided opinion that we are discussing a set of laws that are one of the most important for one society. I am sure that this debate that was held yesterday and today here should not be seen as an opposition to the law, to certain provisions of the law, but simply one discussion and an exchange of views on how to make this education as good as possible, as best as possible, from the fact that education is the foundation of society and that the only resource that one society and one people have, of course, is people and they are the most educated and the smartest. Only educated and smart people, quality people can make some qualitative shift in society, some qualitative success, change of thinking, change of consciousness, some technological revolution, something that will help the whole society move forward. In line with this, it is likely that all of us are interested in making the education system that we have in our country as high as possible, the more subordinate those who attend it and get out of that system as much as possible of the more educated people, directed at the knowledge that they are interested in and that they give the greatest result in these areas. Other issues are also raised from these above objectives that should be achieved by one educational system. Do we really have quality education in our country today, and is the system that works in preschool education, primary schools, high schools, is it the best way to organize and are children who leave school today as graduates, whether primary, whether secondary schools, qualitatively better, do they have more knowledge than we had 20, 25 or 30 years ago? It's really a crucial question when we talk about these laws. I'm sure that you share your opinion and that you've heard some general view in society that we've had a little bit of a break in school criteria and that today children, even though we're trying to give them as much knowledge as possible, as many new achievements, unfortunately, these criteria are such that children coming out of primary and secondary schools don't have the kind of structural quality knowledge as they may have had 20 or 30 years ago. It's a fact, unfortunately, that doesn't give us the right to be satisfied with it, but to try to change something. Fifteen years ago, we started reforming the education system, and that's quite enough time distance to measure today, or to measure for years what we've done in those 15 years, to see if we've achieved any improvements and if we're getting those new generations smarter and more educated, which can be some new scientists, some new better teachers who'll raise the whole of society from this rather difficult situation. I'm sure we share the opinion that there are a lot of problems in schools and that this teaching process is not what it might be. I'm going to mention a segment that, as a parent who has two children, was quite a distraction, something I would call, without wanting to offend anyone, I called it a kind of commercialization of education. 20, 30 or 50 years ago, it's a non-essential time period, and we're all around here, five to ten years apart, we went to schools, and I don't remember anyone or a very small percentage of the students back then had the need to go to some extra class or go to another teacher, teacher, teacher to take extra lessons. Is that the case today? Yes, and very widespread. All that I learned 20 years ago in class, I might have needed an hour or two at home to study, and I had no problem getting the best grade, to move on and to apply that knowledge. Today my children come from school and I have to work with them a few hours after that school to determine what they did at school. Now the question arises whether really educational workers in schools provide enough knowledge to those children, whether they provide the right way or if there is something else? We even come up with those extreme situations. I apologize to the greatest part of the educators who do their job with honor and integrity, but there are those who waste that job in class, and then they say – go, take lessons with my colleague, and I will give to those you teach. The second part of the commercialisation of education concerns textbooks. One of the big problems of the last 10 years is that, I was at a parent meeting a month ago and one woman who is a single mother and has three children, say, seventh, fifth and fourth grade and says, in these seven years, I have three children who go to school and never happened to have the same textbook as this before. Every year, every new generation has new textbooks. I know when I went to school, I buy textbooks from the one who had previously finished class, and I sell to the one who goes behind me. I'm not saying it was an ideal system, but is it possible that in 10 years every year we change a set of textbooks that aren't cheap at all? For example, a set of fourth or third grade textbooks is about 15,000 dinars. Multiply it with two or three children attending school, plus excursions or teaching in nature, various student dinars, school security, you will get quite serious figures that burden ordinary families who have one employee or none. The next problem that is visible in today's schools is discipline. How much space does the law, the sublegal act, the school act, provide space for teaching staff to keep this discipline under control? We understand that today's generations are more active, more dynamic, this education that not only comes to school, which has caused this discipline at school to drop, but today you have a practical problem to slow down or put under control a child who makes a mess in your class, so you can't even yell at him because he'll immediately complain to a school psychologist, sue you, and then teachers have a problem doing anything in the field of discipline and you have chaos in class. It goes to that point, I don't know if you have that information, but some of you may have gotten to it, a couple of years ago, a kid came into high school, or a kid of one of the wealthier and more wealthy people, with a motorcycle in his class. You've got that video on "Juba," all the kids applauded, they were delirious, and the teacher was shocked and imagine she shouldn't have even reported it to the director. Imagine what level we've come to. In the law, the rights and obligations of students in high school are referred to in art. 45, 46 and 47. On obligations only in article 47, one paragraph – a regular student is required to attend and perform other obligations. And what if he doesn't execute? What if he doesn't? I'm afraid without serious discipline and more serious access to work in class, we won't get far. The next problem we have is to evaluate the quality of teaching. Today we have a general lure, or should I say general explosion, expansion of private schools, which is basic, which is secondary and private universities and universities. Last year, when we discussed the Law on Higher Education in Parliament, we spoke on the subject, and the minister had an argument that the market should actually be affected by whether someone is well educated or not and that we can't say that someone who graduated from Belgrade's economic college knows more than someone who finished "Megatrend" or some "Fabus" or some other private institution. Unfortunately, there is no market for businesses and businesses in our country, so that it can iron these variations in the quality of education, both in primary and secondary schools. I think that problem is very deep. Today you have a line of less resistance with students who want to get to a degree, write down mostly, build up, this isn't directed against anyone personally, some less-known private colleges, getting diplomas by paying tuition, going to exams or quasi exams and writing on diplomas what you want. If you want to be the most beautiful, they will write to you – you are the most beautiful, here is your diploma. With that diploma, tomorrow they compete equally for any institution, mostly state-owned, since in the private sector, unfortunately, there has been no work for a long time. In order to avoid this problem that is widespread and which is growing and larger, I think it is necessary to value the quality of what is produced, that is, the quality of people and their knowledge when they come out of those colleges. For example, at the end of the year, at the end of the year, for example, an economic, legal or technical profession, invite all graduates from all colleges, which are private states, to do one and the same test, do a middle grade, and you say – from Belgrade, or from the University of Law, they won 95 points on average, and they won 70 from a private one. Well, if that happens for two or three years in a row, that private college will lose its license. So it's the only way to prevent this kind of commercialisation of education, or getting a diploma for money. And then, of course, that diploma is cashed in by somebody getting into a state institution again, because it has exactly the same status as everyone else, and there's no institute to check whether you know anything or don't know when you come to work there. There are many other things worth mentioning in this law. I'll just be taxing a few things, maybe I'll pass some time, I believe the chairman will have for that understanding, that's the problem with our children's health in schools. According to various studies, which have been doing important institutions for health "Milan Jovanovic Batut", health homes, Institute of Sports etc., there are frantic data that even up to 70% of children, primary school, up to the fourth grade have some health problems, whether it is spine deformity, feet, obesity, motor skills, etc., which is a defeating data. We're a nation that nursed and today cultivates a cult sport. We have to say, a brand built in that part, we admire our athletes, and we have a devastating fact that 70% or 50% of our children in primary and secondary schools can't run, can't catch the ball, it's obesity, there's no motor skills. So, I think that the ministry must seriously consider this problem and introduce a commitment and increase in the number of classes even in lower classes, third and fourth, in order to prevent these problems which, later on, cause a much greater problem in the health situation in adulthood. One more thing that's fighting up the number.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18146	Mr. Lapcievich, I've had my understanding for a minute. Thank you. MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18147	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected members of the Ministry of Education, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened carefully to the assembly debate in some part and enjoyed good discussions of the MPs. I followed because I'm the father of two kids who go to elementary school, but also someone who realizes that these laws are actually practicing the future of our country. I didn't think I was going to start this discussion with a replica, but I'm going to have to use one part of my time for that, because there's one thing that's been unclear here, whether we were right, Mr. Minister, and your suggestion that was well-intentioned, and I'm also a direct pronouncing to extend the time of work, because I can see that it's clouded someone. Why isn't five, why is it ten, or why it's 15, or I'd like only in the future for our colleagues to inform ourselves and us whether it's necessary or not, but in any case before the vote, and they voted to extend the time of the debate. I also didn't understand one criticism that 10% of Serbia's schools are under ten years old. Who is this criticism addressed to? This Serbian government that's been here for a year? What doesn't have a magic wand? Which comes out fairly in front of Serbian citizens and says what the money is for, what there is no money for, what we will do or will not do. Who's responsible for the fact that we don't have more modern schools anymore. Who is responsible for having these schools eaten, spent, or gone into private pockets? I've heard today and criticism of these legal proposals and of those people who seem to me advocate the introduction of some electronic journals, Mr. Minister, or of the electronic boards, or I don't know what's going on in the past, and the effect of all this is nothing. Please, in the future before we get here, before we answer the word, when we shave or when we set up makeup in the morning, to take a good look at ourselves in the mirror and say what we were responsible for in the past and what it was not done in the past to criticise this Government of the Republic of Serbia and these legal proposals in a difolt way. Education is the largest system in Serbia. As part of primary and secondary education, 876 thousand 222 students, 250 to 300,000 students, 70,000 preschool students, although preschool institutions are obligations of local self-government, but these are some small, young people who are on the threshold of the school system, 125, 126,000 employees, not counting those adults who will, and I thank you for giving this bill in the procedure of schooling adults. Somehow we all put it aside, pushed it aside, and we talked more about some other things, and less about that law that's extremely important, thank you, Mr. Pejcic, for talking because I followed you to talk about that law. A million and 400,000 people are in this system and this system deserves a more modern law, or more modern laws that we have in the process today, because, for example, the Law on Fundamental Education, which was passed in 1992, and in 2002, it experienced a kind of finishing. However, a period of twenty and a few years deserves better attention, a more modern approach that these laws actually bring us. I think that a school of this kind of approach and such laws will enable better education and education for every child and student under equal conditions, no matter where the school is located, or where education and education takes place. Education is the management of the future of every country, and there we cannot bring down responsibility only to those direct perpetrators, to direct employees. We are all responsible as representatives of the highest legislative body, both the Government and the Ministry, but also 126,000 employees in education. It's a huge responsibility for us, but I think these laws are slowly coming out of a system where, and we talked about it, Mr. Minister, and I've been under the impression these last few days, and I want what these laws will bring. So far, we have had in the school of stars that have jumped, individuals who are brilliant. Whether mathematicians, whether physicists, huge awards, gold medals. Let us remember the young man Theodore von Burke and how much joy he has brought to us as a society, as a country in general. But all those stars, all those young people who showed huge results were at one point in school and in progress came to one moment, we as a state couldn't give them any more, and then they went after bread from this country. We were left with the average. That's why I support your wish and the government's desire to raise the whole system. The system can't be based on individuals, no matter how great and good they are and win gold medals anywhere. The system cannot be based only on individuals and we cannot be angry with these people that tomorrow for better education, further education, further advancement or career will leave this country. We need people who will remain here, and these knowledge acquired by such laws and apply in Serbia. That's the only way we have a future, and I think it's a good trend, that it's a great trend, and among other things, the SNS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day, of course. When I talk about 125,000, 126 thousand people in education, I have to tell you that I'm here in a kind of conflict of interest, because my wife is an educational worker, a teacher all her life, and she can't do anything else in her life, and she doesn't want to work and she won't work, how much she enjoys the classroom and the diary. These people are the most responsible for the direct transfer of knowledge. These people are the most responsible for raising our children, and if we remember and if we go back – who among us does not remember his teacher? Which one of us doesn't remember any unfavorable professors? Without those 126 people are the hands of this system. They practice the future, they practice those future generations. The head's in the ministry. We're also the ones who pass laws like this. He can't do it without each other. Hands without a head can't, and no head without hands will also have no effect. I understand these people. I understand because their responsibility doesn't end just in the classroom. Their responsibility is great and on vacation, and it is their responsibility and when children go home, their responsibility is also when some sad and ugly things happen, as they last happened, I hope that the last one in my place, in the city from which I took place, in Vranjska Banja, when a young life was extinguished on the field trip. No matter how much punishment it was for these people and for responsibility, because it was meant to prevent such a thing from eradicating the grief of those people, these families, the whole system, the whole state, for losing a young life on a field trip. I understand their desire to limit the number of children in the department to 25, I understand, but I understand both the government and you, Mr. Minister, where you say -- it's okay, we want to do that, too, we're going towards it, but there's no money for that right now. It's the policy of this government of the Republic of Serbia that says honestly what it is, we don't howl at cellophane, we don't howl empty, we don't howl at air, we're going at it. It'll be in the future. We'll work on it, but at this point it's really impossible and I support you, Mr. Minister, in that honesty. I'm worried about the fact that 94% of the education budget or 94% of the 130 billion dinars go to pay, not because 94% goes to pay but only 6% remains for modernising education in Serbia. It's a little bit of that. Too little and you know it very well, and I think that maybe in the future we should think that what was done under the Ministry of Agriculture and under the measure law, encourage agriculture and rural development, that percentage is fixed, and then we will all work together to make these future budgets bigger. With these future budgets, there will be greater separation for both education and therefore for the salaries of employees and for the modernisation of education, which he really deserves. This law brings a lot of newspapers that are good, that follow the present time. One of these things to introduce classes at home, or at a distance. I think that primarily refers to children who are good athletes, children who are professionally engaged in sports, which is why, although the limit for sports, professional sports is getting lower and lower, we can't put a question in front of someone – are you going to go to school or are you going to work professionally while you're showing great results on both sides? This law shows and gives the possibility of completing or schooling remotely, of course where there is a possibility, as well as I think it should apply, and we all look at, or today we look at the situations in Serbia, that children walking 10, 12 kilometers in one direction, attend schools because the nearby schools are not available. The population's concentration is increasing and higher towards cities, few people remain in rural areas, and I would like that law to be consumed by those children too, so that they don't risk their lives, not so much time walking from school to home. Also, what few colleagues were involved in was the feeding of students within school facilities. Of course, it includes some new expenditures and local self-government, because the diet will be carried out only and exclusively within school facilities, but it is also my call to all socially responsible companies and individuals to participate and help. I am publicly committed to helping the school that my children are attending, which I have also attended, which will be attended by future generations, that I will help create such an object within the school, or for making a canteen, or what it will be called. I think it's good for a lot of reasons because that's how one social justice is provided and it's not pleasant when children, especially adolescents, watch as their classmate may have taken something they want and what their parents don't have money to give them. We need that equality. It's necessary if we're all going to eat bread and jam, so we're all going to eat bread and jam, not to look with desire or regret at someone else's hands. Don't let us separate children, and that's a good thing this law takes, not to talk about the safety of children, not to mention how many cases there have been, bad cases around the school, fast-driving, children have been injured. Unfortunately, this is how everything would stay within one school yard. You won't mind me, if I'm going to privatise all this for a moment and remember my teacher who is now at a serious age, her name is Mara Petrovic, I was her last generation, a lot of good people did it, and why do I remember that? Because she taught us how we live in the most beautiful country in the world, how we have everything. We've got the sea, we've got the mountains, we've got the ore, we've got the plain, we've got the cereal, we've got everything. Imagine now the situation when a young man performs taught to have everything. Why fight? Why should he be educated? Why work when he has everything and his country will give him everything? I think we need to reverse this whole procedure, go back and act like we do in Japan, where children are used to having to recycle their waste to get that waste down to sea, to fight for territory, to win the deficit in the territory. We need our children to get used to reality, and the reality is that Serbia is a beautiful country, a country of good people, but unfortunately a poor country. A country where each individual has to work on himself and on society and has to try to be better and have to work. Nothing can fall from the sky. We can't have a school that will support such an idea. As far as adult education is concerned, I am grateful that for the first time we have such a law in the procedure. Unfortunately, adult education in Serbia has always been thought and viewed as that series, which we unfortunately saw on the National Service, not many times, which is called "The Truckers", so there were some characters like Paja and Jara, who went to some evening school, learned some songs and did such things. I thank you for your applause, but, gentlemen, it's you who first forced adults on the street with great privatisations where they were running out of work, and then we looked at those people, who have serious years, who have occupations, who at this point, as a society, as an industry, don't need them, and didn't have a chance at school. What's with the applause? I think we should promote the idea that as long as a man works, as long as he lives he has to work on himself, he needs to learn, he needs to win new skills. He shouldn't give up, no matter where he loses his job. Although he was promised 200,000 jobs, and he was out of work, he should work on his education, becoming competitive in this narrowed market for new jobs. Once again, I thank you for your attention and in voting day, the SNS will fully support this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18148	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18149	An article in 106 that says that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Dear Mr. Babic taught us yesterday not to mix his family, although neither explicitly nor explicitly no one mentioned his family. Today he told all about his family, and about teacher Marie, and about children, etc. In one very, I would say, inappropriately destroying the reputation of this congregation, sending messages that do not correspond to one MP, but it has been doing so for days. I understand his interest in raising adults. He elaborated on it very closely. For some, it may be too late, but I certainly think it would be much more appropriate to invest in snackes for children and provide snacks for children of Serbia than to buy, say, a military plane.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18150	Mr. Veselinovic, I must remind you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that you should speak only of the injury of the Rules of Procedure, not of the replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18151	So you understood that I had turned your attention and warned that the MP was speaking beyond the agenda, and today there was education in elementary school and high school, etc., among other things, adult education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18152	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18153	I see that what I've exhibited here has made a very profound impression on some MPs who, after six hours, quote parts of my speech, but rightly, it's been left with such a profound impression. I was preparing for the laws we're talking about today, and I had no need for poetic inspiration. Let's get these two things straight. Critics, you say it's a criticism, to whether we have 400 schools under the age of 10, that's not a criticism. These are facts from a study called the study. When I express the facts, it can only be a fiction, it can't be a criticism. I didn't have any attitude towards it, I was merely stating the facts. The other thing is, should my MP group consider how we comment on what you've assigned us, give us double time? Let's look at the data. Eight laws are here in a united debate and we each had five hours to talk. It's 40 hours. You doubled five hours. It's ten o'clock. So, 30 hours, where serious laws could have been spoken of in a serious way, have been lost, so the laws will be reunited in six months before the MPs. I hope I'm clear now. I don't have any attitude towards this one, but I only have one need to clarify what a factography is, and what an attitude is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18154	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18155	Thank you. As far as anyone was seriously preparing for this session, it is evident that more than two laws could not say which ones were on the agenda, not even names to name, let alone all eight. So much for the seriousness of preparing and the seriousness of someone sitting here all the time in this debate, someone who's only been in the last 10-15 minutes. I spoke emotionally, and I always speak emotionally because I live the lives of Serbian citizens, because I convey the experiences of people I see and hang out with every day very freely, which I am not ashamed of and will always do, and I will always admit when I am allegedly in conflict of interest because of the family situation and I will not hide such things and will not be ashamed of such things. Those who have spent the past 12 years doing all sorts of things in Serbia and ate all those schools that were supposed to be built should be called. I didn't understand until the end of that study, what it was going to be or won't be. I'm up for something anyway. I would take more seriously criticism and controversy if the start of this controversy and criticism was – yes, we were responsible for leading the Serbian government in some period, yes, we were responsible for leading the Ministry of Education at some point, and at that point we did it, that, that and that, not naked criticism. I would trust you more and more with the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18156	Thank you. (Milica Vojić Markovic, from the place: Replica. ) We have distanced ourselves from the topic, Mrs. Vojić Markovic, and I really cannot allow it because I have to take care of the subject of the agenda. (Milica Vojić Markovic, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18157	Thank you. I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. The speaker is making an offensive statement about what I was talking about. Excuse me, everyone here knows I've been in the O.R. all day. I haven't been in the last ten minutes, I've been in the O.R. all day, just like I was all day yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18158	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, I must warn you that you have the right to speak only about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18159	It's an insult to the Rules of Procedure to make an offensive statement about this, because I've been in the O.R. all day and, secondly, I know all the laws by heart and I can't even say them for so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18160	Thank you. The word is Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18161	I wasn't thinking about you. If you were in the first part of my presentation, I apologize. (President: Mr. Granny, the same goes for you. So you have no right to replicate. I apologize to you. In the first part of the speech, I really didn't mean you, Mrs. Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18162	Thank you. We're going back to work. The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18163	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, dear Ministers, I also did not plan to talk about other people's addresses about these laws, but I also have to look briefly at one part where this pay phone is used for such an important topic as several education laws, for classical advertising. About whether you're going to raise a school or whether you're going to be a donor, it's not the place to talk about it today, but what I'm going to ask everyone is that if they're already a school donor, it's different than how he raised his apartments, that at least they're in accordance with the law and that they have a building permit to start. What is very important about these laws, she said something about it and the predecessor from the DSS, Mrs. Markovic, which is that we could talk about this a lot longer. Every chance NS representatives take advantage of their party task once again, that they've done it nicely, and that's that they've asked for a double of time. It's something that's absolutely in the subject of what I wanted to say before, absolutely one advertising and abuse of a subject that is very important, to say once again, education. I had the impression of moments that SNS MPs hadn't even read this law, just some members who were interested in them, so that, if I were to say, they would have read it. These are mostly topics that had other inspirations. It's something that's dangerous, especially when it comes to education. What I would like to draw particular attention to today is a taxing few things for four laws, but I would ask the Minister that in any part of it, he must not go after me alone, but in any part of it to get involved in the debate, because this is becoming very dangerous that we are actually speaking only this way as Babic, that we should not only address our sympathisers and voters, and it is very important that we get feedback from you, and it is impossible for you to ultimately respond to all 80 and some debates, and we know that you will limit time and only let us skip. I don't think that's fair, and that you didn't respect the Assembly, unlike most of the ministers who did, especially something that was more important. I don't suppose at all to say that my debate will be so important that you'll have to engage, but of course, I'd like to hear the reactions of some very specific proposals at any moment. As regards the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, we have also proposed, through amendments, to add in Article 98 a new position 6, in fact it is added to this proposal of yours, but we have formulated it completely differently. It is very dangerous that something that is already standards in Europe, something that we have achieved that each student will first be enrolled in primary school, and only then will psychologists and educators be decided on which department, or which kinds of education will continue through primary school. This legal solution allows a large number of students from who knows what motives, perhaps even parents, are not enrolled in the first class. All children must be enrolled, only in exceptional situations, we have proposed this by amendment, in case of child health and in order to harm and worsen the situation. Only in such situations is allowed not to enroll a child. You've got 200 little boys in a generation who in the New Sad first class. Mostly children of intellectuals who are evaluated as emotionally immature for school. Let them pass one period, you know what the first grade reactions are. We can't let them be part of the system. Today we have 15% of a generation not to finish primary school. One part is those who haven't even enrolled in primary school, the other didn't finish for some other reason. It's something to get in the way. Your responsibility is the greatest. I think there will be more amendments to this subject and many will talk about it. It's one of those things that made me demand your reaction. I'm afraid it'll be forgotten. In Article 130 of this law, employment is regulated. Mr. Minister, you've had as much as I know, intensive communication with OECD representatives. A study of the integrity of the education system has been carried out, where they have made it very clear that the catalyst of corruption is the reception of the working relationship that regulates this Article 130. You promised this opportunity that it would be resolved by this law and this is a very big problem. There were UNESCO representatives, and they worked very seriously on this research, but apparently there is no one in the ministry to hear or to respect certain agreements. As for the Law on Fundamental Education, I would like to comment that the law is very descriptive. It is necessary to specify it. There's a lot of stuff that's been set up so it's just the minister's responsibility. Minister, you are a professor at the university, but your knowledge of elementary school, high school, high school is in your jurisdiction, but so much depends on your signature. We even have a situation that the National Council has resolved the conflict of interest by continuing to decide on it, but you will cover them in their conflict of interest regarding textbooks. It's a very important thing. As far as this law goes on, we have an absurd situation to talk about equal conditions for education. It is very difficult to provide equal conditions in education when you have one student computer in Belgrade, and in some schools you have 70 students per computer, when we talk about a number of schools not having internet access, and we are talking about a mandatory web presentation. Then, we have it that today's Internet availability, although it was a decision that Telecom Serbia will also participate in the academic network, 60% of schools have the internet. That's the last piece of information we have. A large number do not have a physical hall, but also many other information that says that we cannot provide equal education. The theme of many speakers today was the number of students. You've described it in a very strange way several times. In addition to what you said to be 21.5, completely flat-rate because it also takes into account those schools where they are determined to have fewer students, special math departments, philology, sports but also some other schools that don't have so many students by nature, to those rural schools that have one, two, three, five students, and then when you add it all together, you say that there are 21.5 students per grade in Serbia. You leave the possibility of being 30 students and thus 200 departments and about 35% of educational workers are left without part of the fund or completely without their engagement. I think that's a lot of unions have talked about, that it's a very important story to discuss as well. Why don't we be part of Europe and in this parameter, and why don't we just be one step at a time, there's even 20 students per department? As for the other parameters, it's the number of classes. You know for a fact that we've established that the number of classes per week for primary school students is 25 hours, we're talking about a period from fifth to eighth grade. We know the average is currently about 32% if I'm not wrong. That's what's also the problem with the program. Who's going to change the program? We're going to re-coordinate this legal solution to the programmes and shorten, probably again in the minister's jurisdiction, and that's something that's a serious problem. First, determine what the students need to know and then set a fund of lessons. Not a bad fund of 25 hours a week, but first it was necessary to adjust the material, then the number of lessons. The same goes for lower grade primary school. They currently have 23 hours, they'll be 20, which is also good, but the program isn't consistent. As far as books are concerned, everyone talked about it, we suggested that in one amendment to Article 4 that Article 2 differs, - that pupils of primary, public schools, music schools and ballet schools can use textbooks, books from school libraries, school material, transportation and nutrition, but also accommodation when required under the law. It is something that is much better defined by this member, and it is very important for me to consider both music and ballet schools, given that they are very often forgotten. We have several members who say that music and ballet schools are being left out of this program, it's the 1929 law, unfortunately, back in the Kingdom about students on foot. We're the only country that's proud of us and we're shooting shows about pedestrian students. This law won't solve it. We're still leaving four kilometers. Our proposal is to be two kilometers, to provide transportation, but also for students of music school in those cities where it exists. As far as high school law is concerned, a very important proposal is something that has often been discussed, and I don't see why we wouldn't talk about it today. Technical high school is something that is very important, not because it exists in developed countries, Germany, Switzerland, but because technical high school, if nothing else, would allow students to enroll some colleges from some area they may be from when they were 15 or 14 years old when they chose high school they didn't seem primary. In the meantime, they wanted to enroll some schools that I'm lobbying for professors from electrical, machine schools very often disappears, and it's very important that they have one broader education. Technical high school, for starters, let's predict the law. Why is it a problem for this amendment to be adopted because technical high school is ultimately cheaper? If we have to save already, Mr. Babic said we don't have money for education, but that's why we have to save for planes, and it's hard when someone has to from the position of the authorities to talk about it not being there. I understand, but when you don't have an education you have for something else, it's a big problem. Technical high school isn't an extra cost. He's a cheaper student in technical high school, and he's also a benifit I've been talking about. Finally, I want to conclude that we have a problem in principle with the law Mr. Babic was talking about, adult education. A lot of things are pretty undefined around here. It's not defined what adults are, what age they are. It's defined from three to five years for completion. I think that, according to the interests and possibilities of certain people, they should be able to finish faster. The last thing I would say about this law, and almost all the most important things in this law I mentioned, should survive a certain change, is that it is not well defined which institutions can participate in this process. That's 30 institutions. They are defined, but it should be made possible primarily for primary and secondary schools that they have for that capacity, to allow a certain number of teachers to acquire their fund, and not in this way, let's say, very badly define the institutions that are authorized to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18164	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic. You want a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. [[Employee Zoran Babić, from the place: Any replica or violation of Rules of Procedure 106]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18165	I listened carefully to my colleague, inspired, young, summering. That's good. However, there is a need to talk about the agenda point. For 12 minutes, as long as the discussion lasted, five minutes was me and the SNS as a topic, even though there were other more important things in this country. I'm sorry my colleague didn't understand my provocation, because when I said I was going to help the school, I expected every next speaker to say yes, and I'm going to help mine. But there's nothing here. They don't understand that, colleagues. When it comes to that, they don't get it better than to show a personal example. (President: Mr. Granny, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. Don't use the right replica. All right. I'll just have one more sentence. When there's no money, there's no money that's true, and it would be more so if the farmers in Serbia could dump the country with fertilizer from the azotar that went somewhere in private channels, that they could use the credit lines from the "Vojvodine Development Bank" or the "Agrobank" rather than disappear in private funds where they disappeared through different funds. Then there would be gentlemen, but there isn't, it's gone through funds, through development banks, through various commercials and advertising spaces. That's where the money went. That's why he's gone now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18166	Thank you. National MP Dusan Obradovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18167	Dear Mr. Babic, I would very much like to be able to donate to school. Unfortunately, I don't have private apartments. Five generations are college-educated Kragujevci, from the city where I come from, ancestors, and we are not able today and we all share the fate of this country together. When I'm able, given that of those five generations, everyone's busy in education, absolutely everyone. That's why I'm more interested in these laws. I talked about them a lot more than you said seven minutes, and I was five about you, out of a total of 12. So you're not the fascination. I just cited how today's political elite, which unfortunately includes many others, I'm not talking about individuals, is about education. It was just an example of this empathy commercialism towards the teacher, according to children and school, of some of the other things you mentioned, the type – I submitted an extension request. Well, that was your party assignment. Did you come up with it at home that it should extend and double the time? I'm just talking about giving every law five hours, as far as it's supposed to be. Maybe the citizens who follow this don't know that by the Rules of Procedure you have the opportunity to group laws that are related and that's not disputed. Many others have done the same. But when legal solutions are this important, after many years, we change these laws and we don't have time, we're in a hurry, and we're not going to be working for obviously not even the next few days because we've speeded up the debate on this and we're not continuing the amendments until Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18168	The word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Jovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18169	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers and representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the proposals for a law on basic education and education, on secondary education and education, as well as the proposal for a law on adult education are in line with the education strategy of the Republic of Serbia by 2020 and represent examples of good practice. They're in line with international regulations. They influence the raising of the quality of the education-experienced system. Many of them are affirmative. I will talk about basic education and education, because it is a mission of basic education and education to be the cornerstone of the entire education system and to ensure quality education for all citizens. The education strategy in the Republic of Serbia says that the key strategic features of this subsystem include primary education, quality of education, efficiency and relevance, which is reflected in providing support for those levels, forms and education programmes that make the greatest contribution to the development of society. In 1992, he had more additions, as well as changes made in society both on the economic and on the social and political agenda, to create conditions for the adoption of a new law relying on the strategy, but at the same time creating a basis for its implementation. The objectives and outcomes of primary education and education provided for by this law put a child in the centre of the education system with its age, development needs and interests, but also parents and teachers as partners in the educational process. The primary task of the school is to enable quality education and education for each student under equal conditions, to promote equality among all students and to oppose all kinds of discrimination and violence. I would point out the other advantages of this bill because of the parents of the students. The school network should ensure the availability of education and education to all students in a given area. Students with disabilities in education and disability, as well as students with exceptional abilities, have the right to an individual educational plan, where development and advancement will take place according to abilities and interests. Basic education and education is free and mandatory. The parent is obliged to enroll the child in school, but he has the right to choose which school the child will be enrolled in. The law introduces and divides to types of schools according to the programme of national and foreign and the founder of public and private, as well as teaching at home and remotely. Educational and educational work is done in Serbian, but members of national minorities have the opportunity to attend classes in the languages of national minorities or to study the language as a choice. Schools for education of students with developmental disorders, apart from schooling children regardless of the type of interference, will provide professional support to institutions in the system of regular education and training by engaging special educators and defectologists, thus becoming resource centers, as it stands in the strategy. The inclusion of experts from these schools in regular schools, except for helping students with development and disability, provides assistance and teachers, which is a kind of professional training of teachers of regular schools who acquire new skills and skills that are important for the implementation of inclusive education. A significant paper in the law is that private schools can be established with special pedagogical orientations, such as Montesori, Decroli, Valdorf, as this increases the programme's offer, raising the quality of educational-experienced work. Educational and educational work is done on the basis of school programmes through mandatory, electoral and university courses, while other subjects can be realised in private school instead of election courses according to the school's programme. The development plan, the school programme and the annual work plan are documents that plan to carry out educational-experienced work, as well as all activities and all actors involved in the implementation of the work. I would especially like to highlight here the most important mandatory measures of the development plan as documents. These are measures to improve educational and educational work, accessibility and quality of education for students who need additional support, therefore, inclusive education, measures to prevent violence, depletion of students, preparation for the final exam, inclusion in national and international projects, involvement of parents in school work. Also important are the contents of the school programme, which are related to complementary and additional teaching programmes, cultural activities of the school, school sports and sports activities, protection against violence, abuse and neglect, free activities of students, professional orientation, health care, social protection, co-operation with the local community and family. When we talk about continuing, it is important to stress that the school is obliged to prepare students for the final exam, as well as that for fourth-grade students, which is a newspaper, organises classes that will be conducted by the teachers in question that will carry out the fifth-grade course, which will reduce the difficulties arising from the transition from the class to the classroom. All day long and extended classes, which can be organised in schools, have arisen from the need for parents to be in a safe environment, under the supervision of professionals, while they are in the workplace. The organisation of classes for home and hospital care students, as well as distance classes, gives the possibility that students who for health or other reasons are prevented from attending school are continuously involved in the educational-experienced work process. The minister will adopt rules under which this course will be implemented when it is in the best interest of students, thereby preventing the abuse of the organisation of these forms of teaching. The professional public and the public in general point to criticism at the expense of the current system of education, stating that education is dominant in relation to education. With this law, the educational role of the school is gained in importance through cultural activities programmes, school sports and sports activities, free activities, environmental protection, co-operation with local self-government, which are also foreseen by the provisions of this law and oblige schools to pay even more attention to education. At the same time, these are prevention programmes that affect the development of healthy lifestyles, care for their own health, prevention of violence and disease of addiction, as well as juvenile delinquency. Free activities that have been neglected and implemented in schools by other persons now become available to all students again, because the school is organised free of charge and the inclusion of students in them will not be related to the social status of students. It is very important to have a comprehensive free time organization through the content of free activities or sections, as they are popularly called, because it is the prevention of unwanted forms of behavior, but also the possibility created to promote individual preferences, interests, enriching social life, socialization, the adoption of positive values and norms of society. Emphasis that special attention should be paid to the formation of music and drama groups, the school list and folklore, we return to our educational institutions the visions of the organization of students through which they cultivate the tradition and culture of their people. The school will implement joint activities of students, parents and local communities, which will contribute to the protection of the environment, but also to the development of environmental awareness and conservation of natural resources. An example of these activities is also a competition for cleaner and greener schools in the duchy organised by the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism, Construction and Environmental Protection and the Regional Secretariat for Education, Administration and National Communities, in collaboration with Vojvodina, the Goran Vojvodina Movement and other partners. The competition has been organised since 2009, for all children aged from preschool to high school education. A special importance is given to the partnership relationship between school and parents, making the parent an active participant in the educational process both through the work in the bodies of the management of institutions and by including in the implementation of programme activities or the presence of them. The prescribed polling of parents at the end of each half-year, which has not been mandatory so far, will allow parents to give suggestions for improving and organisation and work programmes, and the results of the survey will also be taken into account when the school works externally. The paper in the bill is the possibility to postpone enrolment in the first class and return to attending the preschool prep programme, when the child is six and a half and seven years old at the most, therefore, when the parent is obliged to enroll him. In order not to be abused by parents, because this happened in earlier practice, and especially as the law comes into force and will apply to school 2013-2014, it is necessary to provide some guidance to ensure that these provisions are applied correctly for the next school year. For students with developmental and disability disorders, additional support is provided for education and training by adopting an individual educational plan, thus achieving optimal inclusion of these students in regular educational and educational work. What should also be pointed out is that students with exceptional abilities, talented students are also paid attention because IOP is also being developed for them. We know that so far there have been objections that these students have been neglected, that they are not given sufficient attention, which is reduced by applying this provision. All of the above implies that education institutions are equipped with educational workers who can plan, prepare, organise and implement education under educational and educational work programmes, have competences to work in educational educational institutions, train themselves continuously, evaluate their work and introduce innovation, in order for students to be both functional and applicable in the wider social community. I wanted to stress with this the role and responsibility of educators in the realization of teaching activities, the level of expectations of parents, local communities and professional associations, as well as the ministries prescribed and their obligations and jobs, so special attention must be paid to the education and selection of teaching staff. By introducing basic education, which would be my proposal as well as other colleagues, schools – the centre model, would allow those schools that have been examples of good practice so far, recognizable by the paper in the paper, to be adequately evaluated, and also to act motivated to other schools to follow their example, but also to allow the staff who are educated for school work to have the opportunity to implement part of their education in these kind of exercises. I have to look back at the inclusive education process, but in that part about the work of the interresor commissions. In local environments where inter-resor committees are formed and whose members are trained to work, there is a problem of funding commissions' work, but also of funding what the commission gives as a support measure for a child with developmental and disability disorders. Unfortunately, there are no positions in the budgets of local self-government for these purposes, or, if they exist, there are not enough resources on them, so the proposed measures cannot be realised. This means that what has been given as an opportunity for special schools to be referred to regular institutions in order to support these students will not be able to be implemented sufficiently because there will be insufficient funds for this. Finally, in addition to the extremely high-quality legislative basis and the secured integrated approach in the educational-experienced process, the quality of this process is also very important for the quality of textbooks and teaching tools. In this regard, I support a legal solution which will deal with the quality of textbooks by the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, i.e. the Centre for the Development of Programmes and textbooks as an expert institution. So with regard to textbooks, I would like to draw attention to the remarks of health care professionals and parents on the problem of heavy bags, although perhaps at the moment when we think about a set of educational laws it will be less important, and that is the only way to look, because if we do not save the health of students, then all of our legal solutions will not have anywhere and with whom to apply. I suggest that, when choosing textbooks, it is also taken into account that other selection criteria are included in the selection of textbooks printed on offshore or recycled paper which are much easier. In this way, not only do we protect the spines of our children, but this approach has special significance from the aspect of nature conservation and sustainable development. It is not negligible nor the price of these textbooks, which is significantly lower than textbooks printed on expensive types of paper. This would be a savings not only for parents, but also for a state that provides free textbooks. Members of all parties have had the opportunity to submit amendments to a whole set of laws and thus contribute to improving legal solutions, which was also the wish of the minister and his team, who will consider and install these proposals in the final version of the law, where this is in line with the concept of the law and with the strategy. I call on fellow Members to vote on this set of laws in the day of voting, not dividing, because when our children are enrolled in school, they are only different by their abilities and interests and not by any other thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18170	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18171	Good evening. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, at the very beginning of today's presentation as well as previous speakers, I must stress the importance of today's topic. So, the area of education and the set of laws that we are discussing today is what is one of the priorities of our policy that we are dealing with all these years. Education is crucial to the progress of a society, its orientation towards modern and modern world flows. We need to agree on the central points on which our society rests and on which our nation's state in general rests, about the value, and one of those values and one of those points must be that our society is based precisely on knowledge. If society is based on knowledge, then clear criteria and qualifications that experts, leaders, managers and at all employees of people in each area should have and then removes a number of misunderstandings. A knowledge-based society can only be achieved through a significant contribution to education and system approach and long-term approach to education, which, unfortunately, today I am afraid is not the case. Instead of building a knowledge-based society, we are today discussing laws in the field of education that will not ensure an increase in the quality of the process and the outcome of education, nor will they ensure that education is achieved and maintained. It is also a question of raising and increasing the efficiency of the use of all resources in the field of education, which is all the objectives set out in the education strategy adopted last year, which covers development by 2020. I regret to say that this set of laws, as proposed and written, and the deadlines in which we are being adopted and discussed, will not greatly contribute to a knowledge-based society, and it also concerns the fact that you are proposing laws that are inconsistencies or that are inconsistencies with the strategic document, which is the Strategy for the Development of Education in the Republic of Serbia by 2020, and I will give some examples that are just illustrating these inconsistencies. The development strategy says that in order to increase the efficiency of pedagogical work in general, the number of students in the department should not exceed 20 to 25, and you are now proposing the number of students in each department to be 30. In that sense, the DS submitted an amendment. Okay, up to 30, but anyway, in the Strategy you're proposing between 22 and 25, and this is about the possibility of five more students. Therefore, there is inconsistencies. So you have a strategic document and the laws you're proposing today are contrary to that same strategic document. You're proposing the establishment of another agency. We've heard a lot about that. It is unclear what the authorities of this agency are, will it be a new body or will it take over the responsibilities of existing bodies, etc? We believe that the explanation you have given is insufficient and in that sense we have proposed a number of amendments. What is insinuating is a pre-election promise that says you're going to reduce the number of agencies, and here you're predicting the establishment of another one. On the other hand, one of these laws is taken from the National Education Council in the domain of assessing the need for new textbooks and proposing the necessary textbooks to you. That's what my colleague Obradovic was talking about. So much now depends on the minister, with all due respect and respect, we should delegate certain powers and let some bodies that already exist do their job. Because why go backwards when there are currently bodies dealing with these responsibilities. So this raises the question of motives for such a move, especially in the domain of textbooks, because we are witnessing that in public this issue is quite often opened and that there are simply no concrete satisfactory solutions and that the public is simply confused by this approach. By proposing a law on basic education, you also missed the chance to change the 1929 provision that says that "a student living more than 4 km from school headquarters has the right to free transportation". The DS MPs suggest that this provision, which is almost 100 years old, is changed and that the distance is reduced to 2 km and that, as my colleagues said earlier, we stop following the students on foot and that we try to make sure that our schools are really a modern environment in which we learn and gain knowledge. When the concept of compulsory enrolment is accepted for all children aged 6.5 to 7.5 years, a huge step has been taken in advance and it has already been spoken of by my colleagues, but I simply feel the obligation to repeat it and to appeal to you to plead in the debate on amendments to accept our proposals and to make this law better together. Now you're proposing to postpone enrollment in the first class and that's a step backwards. It is a concept that is abandoned in developed countries and in countries that have developed education. You are also proposing that we move backwards and on inclusive education, which is also being talked about today. We disagree with that, and we have also submitted amendments, so that we can simply try to correct that if you have a hearing about our proposals. I wish we didn't have to talk today about the conditions in which children in Serbia acquire new skills, what train them to live longer, but there are schools in Serbia that don't have toilets, which have unconditional toilets, which have roofs that leak, wet classrooms, where children spend hours and hours sitting on chairs and tables that are unconditional. Again, it is imposed on schools to have an Internet presentation and funds for such a thing are not foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Does this mean that the cost will fall on local self-government or will it fall on parents? Because directors won't manage, they won't reach the same language with the presidents of the municipalities, and that way there won't be a solution. So, just once again, there's a problem that you're going to have trouble solving in practice. It doesn't mean that schools shouldn't be modern and that we don't advocate modernising the education system, but let's first secure what's basic and what's civilized, and then we deal with upgrades to everything else. So modernization – yes, technological development – yes, but first to provide what is essential for children who go to school. With disappointment, I must conclude that in the procedure in the Assembly there is yet another law in the field of education proposed by DS MPs, which is the law concerning the nostification of diplomas. You could have accepted it and included it in this set of laws, and thus, as you boasted of a versatile and comprehensive approach to solving the problem, solve another problem, but there was simply no hearing to accept the DS proposal. To conclude, for DS education is one of the priority areas for the development of our society and it is not only declarative on our part, we have shown that in the case of Belgrade. We have shown that education is a way to create a knowledge-based society. If society is based on knowledge, then there are clear criteria and qualifications that each of us should have. So those aren't just plain words. In Belgrade, we managed to renovate toilets that were unconditional, renovate physical halls, renovate schoolyards, upgrade some schools, all in accordance with existing funds. We managed to get every founder to have free textbooks in co-operation with the Ministry of Education, but only as a strategic definition of Belgrade's leadership plotted education. So, every founding father in Belgrade has been given free textbooks and every founder in Belgrade has one of his students' lockers. A total of 120,000 founders in Belgrade can experience the concern of current management of learning and learning conditions. So, I urge that in this way access to education in Serbia and I urge that in the debate on amendments you have heard about the constructive solutions we have proposed, because we have shown that we are serious about creating a knowledge-based society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18172	The word is made by MP Branislav Jovanovic. You have five minutes and 15 seconds at your disposal. Is Branislav Jovanovic there? It's not. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18173	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues, we have a set of laws in the field of education ahead of us. I believe that this area, or its significance, should not be explained in particular. It is clear that it is an area that has a fundamental and long-term impact on one society. What I would first and foremost single out as positive from the set of these laws is his insistence that the school be an open institution. This means that the school is increasingly co-operating with local self-government, with various sports organisations based on local self-government, with the Red Cross, and with the Youth Office where such an office is open. Then, what is very positive, which I would like to point out, is the insistence between a partnership and a creative relationship between parents and school. The second is the paper, which is foreseen by a set of these laws, which I think is very good, we'll just see if and how they will live in practice, it's a distance teaching that is meant both in elementary school and in high school. Namely, a student who, due to certain difficulties, due to certain injuries, disability or severe illness, is unable to attend classes actively, will be allowed if, at the request of his or her parent, he or she submits a request, he can struggle to exercise his or her right of teaching remotely and decide schools in accordance with the law and according to his means. Then, what I would also like to point out, which I think is very good, is the endeavor that students take on as active a role as possible in different kinds of school life. That means, through the student parliaments. There are now, both in primary and secondary schools, besides student parliaments, so-called student cooperatives. What I would particularly draw attention to is that all the money that comes from the work of the student cooperative, now the students themselves have the right to say when and how they will use it. Whether they use that money for a field trip, whether they use that money to improve school conditions, their diets, or the like, or use it to help a friend who needs that help. What's important is that they decide for themselves, that the decision is on them. In this way, one active approach, first of all, is to develop very important feelings in students, such as the sense of responsibility, the feeling of empathy, but also the development of confidence. Through an extremely active approach, they are gradually introduced into the adult world and thus gain a gradual sense of responsibility, and I think that is primarily very important. It is handled by a principle that is extremely simple and always applies, which is-- the sooner you treat someone like they're adults, the sooner they become adults. Then, what is particularly insistent is the school’s advisory role. Namely, there are now entire teams involved in studying, monitoring work, specificities, special qualities that each student owns, so that they can properly guide him, or help him in the then vital decisions that the student makes, which is – which school do you continue to enroll, or what interest to choose for yourself? Also, what I would like to look back on is teaching, what classes have received through the reforms that took place in the field of education. She's got a lot of things. First of all, a cruel and stereotype manner of exposure, teaching, changes that have occurred over the past years in the field of education has been overcome. The professor has been given much more freedom to make him come up with his class more creatively, which is a very positive thing. However, since every reform has its positive sides, and this reform has one side of the medal, which we are unable to ignore, which is that we once had in education the situation that the professor has uncut rights, and now the rights given to parents and students, and above all I would point out to parents, has now gone to another extreme, and as we know, no extreme is good and the truth is always somewhere in the middle. The accent is to find a healthy balance and return to the professor's profession the reputation and dignity that she truly deserves. This set of laws represents a serious step towards that goal. Just one suggestion, I think there's still work to do. Also, one suggestion I have concerns the number of students in the department. In fact, this set of laws provides for it to be 30 students. I think that by reducing it to number 25, of course when the economic situation, we're all aware of that, would allow it to be gained at a higher level. It would first and foremost be given to the quality and efficiency of teaching, which we are all aware of, and secondly, we would get finally responsible solutions – what with technological surpluses, which is indeed a real problem today in education. That would be what I especially wanted to point out. Once again, just in the end to highlight the importance of education, the necessity and the continuity of permanent changes in it, because it is not a static area, the inevitableness of promotion, the modernisation, and that the state that is ready and determined to invest in its education is actually investing in its future. That's why the SNS will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18174	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18175	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, gentlemen of fellow Members of the People, I, as well as our MP group, are not pleased that this set of eight laws has entered this procedure. It's about very serious laws. I think the minister will agree with that, it could be said by system-based laws important for education. They came at the end of last week in a procedure. We are discussing them today, united. Today, we are told from the SNS Parliament Club that, behold, we have been given another five hours for this debate. I find that extremely unserious. Given the importance of these laws, I will at least list them today, to remind the MPs of what we are discussing and what we are ready to discuss in one and a half days and to press the key in the day to vote. It is about the Law on basic education and education, the Law on secondary education and education, the Law on adult education, what was most discussed by Mr Babić, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Student and Student Standard, the Law on the Completion of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Innovation Activity, the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. We're discussing these eight laws today. Some, truth be told, they didn't even have time to mention it, and that's why I did it on this occasion. I believe that this attitude towards education in Serbia is the country's relationship to the key sphere of social life, in which every normal state should invest to start a society, a society that is in serious problems, a country that is plagued by the biggest inflation in Europe, the biggest wage drop, that is, the value of wages, the fall of all parameters, the growth of the euro, or the fall of the dinar. These days, MPs of the ruling coalition feared that the only dinar was stable and that it was the capital of this government. It's all unscathed. Inflation of values has hit education. Unfortunately, no country in the world that tried to improve its economy did so on the wings of military planes. We are talking about education these days, the fact that there is no money for textbooks, school kitchens, no money for students on foot, that they will still have to keep that status, that there is no money for the Internet, that there will be no money for some more things, Minister Obradovic, I know that you are the least guilty, and we buy airplanes worth a billion euros. Have you ever, Minister Obradovic, put yourself in a position to ask the question of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Mr Dinkic, who decide on the money in this country, Vice President Vukic and Minister Dinkic, have you asked yourself perhaps a question to ask yourself if it would be good if one of those planes left for a happier period without giving you at least 150m euros? Think about it, Mr. Bradovich, that you might ask him at one of the next sessions. I'm not sure it's true that no one can ask Mr. Wolfie anything. I'm sure you're a brave man and you'll ask him that question. What do you think a billion euros could do in education and science? You know that well. You know how it was in the previous government, how much investment was made in science and education, how many schools were built in Serbia, how many scientific parks were raised, some are now ending, how many apartments for young scientific workers were raised. Unfortunately, those two men put you in a position so you wouldn't be able to do it anymore. The next question is even asked – what if Vukic and Dinkic tell you - Mr. Obradovic, you will have to give up 6% of your budget and 94% of your budget are salaries? This means that you would give up all other expenses with that 6% and that you would only have to pay your salaries, and it could easily happen because you said the salaries would remain the same. I'll talk about employees' salaries later. If they tell you to cut your budget by 6%, you can only pay your wages. Does this mean that kids like the '90s will have to bring in chalk from home, that they pay for the basic needs of the school in terms of equipment and everything that's teaching means to pay for their parents? Does that mean we're getting into this phase? Is this the public school that Professor Micunovic spoke of today and has been known since Napoleon? Now Olan is trying to get that system back to France. Are we at that stage that public free education will mean that to us? What was I gonna say? Namely, in Article 4. The law on basic education, I don't have enough time to talk about all the laws, you understand why, because it's simply such a debate, it's said that every person has the right to free and quality basic education and education in public school. So, free and quality. Is free and quality education when we look at the next 68th, which says – a student who lives more than four kilometers from the school headquarters has the right to free transportation? What about the students who are located at a distance of 3.5 kilometers, so every day it takes seven kilometers to walk? Then RTS comes and paints, and he says, "Look at the student on foot, how successful he is." What my colleague, Honorable Professor Stojkovic said -- there are more wolves than students in the area. Is that free schooling? Why don't we get these kids a free ride from this one plane? The same article says that a school in agreement with a local self-government unit and donors, such as Mr. Babic, can provide free food for all students in general or in part. Is that free schooling? Did we say in article 4, that every person belongs to free schooling, quality? Here he says – he can, and everything after he says – everything depends on the donor of the unit of local self-government, which Minister Dinkic is about, and I don't think mentioning his name makes any sense because it's decided by who, and I've already mentioned his name. So he took that local self-government money. What are they going to invest in these schools and in those kitchens if there are no such donors who have the means to invest in those kitchens, Mr. Obradovic? I really think it's the least of your fault that this is like this. They took everything from your ministry, but in some ways you're sitting in that government, so you're going to have to ask the question one day -- how do you go on? It's the same with the whole day's stay. They say the other day - there's no money. That school is normally 500 meters from my house, to now privatize the congregation hall. The school's director in a new settlement, which has 50,000 residents in Novi Sad, says there is no money for extended child stay in the second grade. Now parents who have enrolled their children in primary school count on being able to work, that when they come home from work, they find their children in school, not in front of school. He says there's no money for an extended stay. What do parents do now? Either write out the kids from school or quit the job. Is that free schooling? Please ask Mr. Vukic if this one plane can resign, delay its purchase for another period, so that there may be an extended stay in my Novi Sad, in Leskovec, in Belgrade and in any other city, so that there may be snack for children, in order to have chalk at school, in order to be bright in that school, so as not to crash roofs, etc. I'm afraid I don't take too much time, but I think my colleague Komic will be mad at me, because she should talk after me, too, but just one more minute. The issue of free education also concerns the quality of education, which is also mentioned in Article 4. What is this education and what quality is it when we are a country in Europe with the highest number of private lessons parents pay for? Here, from my personal experience, I had kids, my neighbors had kids, my friends had kids, not only are they paying for English, they're paying for math and chemistry, and so on. What we did in that public school is that when children come home, not perhaps as in Norway or Denmark, they don't carry a bag at all, they come home, they don't have homework, they're all working at school, but at least some basic knowledge is collected, that they can come to a written exam without having to pay for a private teacher, or someone who will give them some extra knowledge. It's not schooling kids by pouring them a little bit of knowledge, they offer you a basket to pour, or they don't offer you a basket, go home and school is something much more. Just two more things. So this mentions the role of school in the area of prevention of violence, in the area of preventing bad habits regarding drug use, etc. I would draw attention to a very serious problem, which is a cube, or playground around schools, which is 1,400 legal, 1,000 illegal, which are a serious danger to this society. A growing number of children are already in primary school going to these casinos, having no education at all. If they become addicts, there is no institution in this country that can treat them. Not to be at all someone who gives an assessment of this condition, but this gambling addiction situation is adequately dependent on any other drug and is treated almost equally difficult, and no attention is paid to it. I have made an amendment on this matter when it comes to the special concern of the school on the subject. In the end, I end up with one attitude that, let me say, is no longer surprising when I see the state's attitude towards education. A member of the 53rd law on primary education says that additional basic education can be provided for children of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are on temporary stay abroad, etc. So we have no obligation to organize primary education for children who are outside, because their parents went with their belly after bread or bread. They're on their own now. You're a co-worker, but I know that a very small number of these children are involved in Serbian education, and this is not the time as it was during the SFRY that there was a class in every country and children could learn and learn our language. I think in that part, Serbia failed. We passed the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region. There's no mention of Serbs in the region here. I think it's also a mistake, but I don't think this is an irrelevant topic, that it's not an irrelevant topic, and that our children's education abroad has earned much more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18176	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18177	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike the previous period and the previous 12 years in Serbia, when laws were being made according to the will of individuals, at the will of the tycoon, when various government ministers were buying planes, but not for the military, not for the state, but for themselves, from the funds they robbed from these citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this Government of the Republic of Serbia, this defence minister is buying planes for the Army of Serbia, not for his private pockets and not for his private needs. I really don't understand why anyone is bothered by the Serbian Army becoming an armed force that is equipped with both personnel and technical. Are we waiting for our country to be and our airspace to defend and protect another country, or are we going to do it? How many other Serbian military pilots have to die, they have to lose their lives in order for someone to come to their senses and those assets that they put into their private pockets of different privatisations over the past few years, and now, for God's sake, does it bother him when the state buys for the state, for the Army? What difference does it make? Who can tell whom, who can't tell whom? Look in the mirror before you say anything. Look what you've been responsible for for for 12 years. Look where our land is after those 12 years. Look where we are by no employment. Where we've been in crime and corruption. Take a look at this, look in the mirror, and then pay some respects to this government and to Mr. Alexander Vukic and the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18178	National MP Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18179	Apparently, Mr. Babic didn't understand me again, but since he wasn't in the O.R., I don't expect him to understand me. He only enters the O.R. when he's supposed to give a replica, but he's not in context, so I'll forgive him. I was talking about the fact that we don't have a snack, that we don't have an extended stay, that we won't even have a chalk soon, and that we owe a billion euros to buy six planes. I'd understand a progressive who's now talking like a radical that we bought those planes before we signed the Brussels Agreement, so we had to protect something with them. What are you going to do now, gentlemen, to protect after the signing of the Brussels Agreement? Lately you remembered you were defending the country with a billion euros in credit. I was talking about education, gentlemen, and the fact that it's a priority for someone to buy out of a loan right now, and you're already in charge of four billion euros in six, seven months. To remind you, unemployment is much higher than when the DS was in power. All the other parameters are, not to count them, I think the citizens know exactly how much they can buy today, and how much they could buy for the same money a year ago. I think they know how many people are out of work. Only 30,000 in the last four months, etc. So we're talking about education, Mr. Granny. We're in favour of defending this country, but we're talking about priorities whether we needed exactly six planes to buy in Sochi, or maybe it was better to reroute it for roads, student costs for pedestrian students as you like to pessimize them. It's not 19th-century hikers, it's the 20th century, it's Internet time. It's no praise to have students on foot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18180	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18181	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will not enter the fire. They also understand colleagues, understand and citizens, understand Serbia very well. I'm going to ask you one thing: I wouldn't be getting six planes, we state, government, if you'd bought at least one a year in the last 12 years. But where is it? Where are your planes? Burned through the azotar? Went through an artificial fertilizer? We went through "Agrobank!? They went through "The Development Bank of Vojvodina"? That's where our planes are respected Serbian citizens, that's where the loans are, that's where we are and how we failed. Then a magic wand is expected from this government of the Republic of Serbia. So imagine you put on shackles and on your hands and on your neck and around your neck and say swim with Mark Phelps, set a record. Why aren't you faster? First we take off the shackles, not us, the citizens of Serbia took off their shackles in the May 6th and 20th elections last year. Serbian citizens took off those shackles you imposed on them for 12 years. Don't spill demagogue and don't spill empty stories. An empty state, an empty register you left for us, and now you honor us for going out in front of both the enlightener and the rest of the citizens and telling us what's true. And that's the burden? No, it's worth it and this government while the SNS is in it will stand for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18182	I ask the People's Messengers to bring the replicas to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18183	Indeed, I think it's pointless to continue the stories, because Mr. Babic, apart from Azotara, about every law, I don't know if he reads the law, whether he knows what's on the agenda. He's just talking about the azotars. Why would they buy us planes? Well, because you gentlemen killed those planes in the wars that you led while you were destroying this country. Don't bring us back to 90 years, destroying the country, the family, the people, the states. It's your fault we don't have planes today and we don't have the army Serbia might deserve, but our defence minister has done a lot for that army. Professionalized by the military, made a worthy Serb soldier, but we do not think this is the time to buy six aircraft worth a billion euros and on debt. We didn't get any money through the chimney of Azotara. I told you last time, you were bringing DS free into contact with these things. You've got the wrong approach. You can't explain everything to the citizens through the story of the previous government. Look at you in the mirror and see what this is, I don't mean personally, what this government has done for the past year. All parameters are down, all parameters down. Our credit rating fell twice, and now unfortunately, it's going to be the third time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18184	Time, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is Mr. Babic and we're closing the lines. (Alexander Pejcic, from the city: I am reporting from the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Babice, I didn't notice he was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18185	Article 107. I'm sorry, General, I know you like this theme about the plane since you were once a military person, but today on the agenda is education. I am also aware that Mr. Zarko Obradovic is proud to have supported once the government when it was best lived from 2004 to 2008, but I would like to return the topic again, which is education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18186	It's a deal. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18187	And I say it's a deal, but after one sentence. Somehow whenever there's a responsibility for the past 12 years, it's immediately escaped in the 1990s. They're wrong in the '90s. It's not their fault, no matter what. It wasn't. That's perfect. Honey and milk, the most capable, the best, but they're wrong in the 1990s. One basic question - 12 years old, all the power in Serbia, all the power and the judiciary and all that could have had, if we're guilty of not processing? Why didn't you prosecute us, condemn us, hang us if necessary, if we're responsible? You're not, because we're not responsible or you're not able to do that, that you did that job for those 12 years, and I'm saying this is the first one. We are not responsible, and you are responsible, and I will say again about all the things that have been countered through Želizar Smederevo and privatization in it for all the 24 privatisations that Verica Baraq spoke about and Europe and for everything that, not what the SNS was saying, Europe has said. We're the first in Europe for crime and corruption. Who's responsible for this? Ninety years old. Why don't you change that? How many more nineties? Why didn't you process them? Why didn't you close that story? No, you just need an excuse that no one has been responsible for the past 12 years. Who ran the country? Who ran the departments? Where are your ministers? Where? At the Uprising or at home? In Rebellion, I guess? Butchvanski? There's no need to run away from responsibility. The SNS will never run away from responsibility. We won't take responsibility for our partners. In this Government of the Republic of Serbia, SNS is the largest partner and most responsible and will be responsible for both good and bad things. Don't go back to something that wasn't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18188	Mr. Veselinović, please let us finish. If it makes you feel any better, here I am taking full responsibility for all the blames that were. Mr. Jeremiah, what do you want? (Free Jeremic, from the city: Only two - three sentences. I can't give you my word. First, you are not personally called, your party is not called, or mine, and therefore you do not have the right to reply. The word is made by MP Vesna Marijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will try according to what some of my previous colleagues have indicated, to return to the topic. After this very comprehensive debate, which, of course, has shown that every parliamentary debate on education is a strategically important and strategically important political debate, to try to point out one, it seems to me, an under-respected aspect of education and to try to establish through this aspect that I want to talk about, how fulfilled are the objectives set by our education system. The law on basic education and education, though what I will talk about is also very much about secondary education, highlights the objectives among which the formation of values and acquisition of cultural literacy are necessary for active involvement in family and community life. What I want to set as an example, i.e. as a picture of how these goals are being met, is one of the studies conducted by the Institute, or the Institute for Studying Cultural Development, I would ask Mr. Chairman, the truth, I'm not talking about airplanes, to ask my colleagues to be a little quieter. So in 2010, the Institute for the Study of Cultural Development conducted an important research, which is a research on cultural life and the needs of secondary school students. So, I want to talk about what's called intersectoral co-operation between culture and education and what I believe is that the lack of cultural and artistic objects in our school system has led to today's cultural needs of our citizens, our high school students and founders at a very low level, probably the lowest in the last fifty years. These studies show, among other things, that in addition to what has already been indicated, that the biggest problems in secondary schools are violent behavior, alcoholism, drug use, etc., that only 8.5% of high school students visit cultural institutions, that as many as 85.8% of high school students rarely or never visited a museum, that 79% of high school students never or rarely visit galleries. Only 0.2% of students go to the institution of culture are among the favorite ways to spend their free time. For every serious country, for every serious society, this is more than an alarming data, alarming data, while a third of high school students only read the book when they have to, and the rest of them only read one book a year, that's what students themselves admit, data is probably even more devastating. So how is the cultural needs of citizens created through the education system, and how is it possible through culture to improve the quality of our children's education? I have repeatedly talked about the fact that, despite the fact that for many years we have been members of international organisations such as the UN, or the UNESCO programme, that we have been members of the Council of Europe for ten years, as representatives of this country, as parliamentarians, we have been taking part in the development of documents that are ultimately unknown here, and I don't think actually apply what these documents are very eloquent about. More and more research and documents are being adopted by international organisations calling on countries to make a much greater effort to enable equal opportunities in accessing education and equal participation of citizens in cultural life. This does not just mean a broad cultural offer, which in our case today is very dramatic, i.e. very bad and increasingly poor, but implies that the state needs to create this atmosphere and create this policy to be an initiator and promoter. What has also been shown through many researches, that exceptional results have shown examples, or methods where art education is more involved in regular teaching and formal education, because it has proved to develop an abstract opinion, to develop tolerance, to develop a greater ability to understand a different one, which seems to me to be the qualities and values that we need today in vain. It has also been shown that through interdisciplinary approach to certain objects, it means that through art, geography will be taught by learning physics by learning the general history and history of art, that students have shown much better and much greater results. Mr. Minister, I'd like to make you a proposal and try to be constructive in this very important debate. In many international documents, which I have quoted in some ways, it is proposed that governments form co-ordination bodies between ministries that should encourage and improve the education system. First of all, I am talking about the sectors of culture and education, but there should be an equal existence and there should be a Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Youth, Labour, etc. The Ministry of Culture is currently coordinating the creation of a national culture development strategy in the Republic of Serbia and I would like to appeal to you, Mr. Minister, and to the Ministry of Education to engage in this process in time and to really develop a new and more developed, innovative way for these two sectors to be involved. Therefore, we need to foster an institutional link between the education sector, the Ministry of Education, that is, schools on the one hand and local and national cultural institutions in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, as a comment on how important the lack of culture and education on culture is, it has shown, although fortunately to a lesser extent, and today's discussion, because today, like 20 or 30 years ago, we have heard that someone can be called a patriot and someone not to be a patriot, that the opposition has no right to criticise the government. So these are also cultural shortages, in this case politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18190	Thank you. Because there's a lot of logouts, but I'm still gonna read it anyway. The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji is not here. People's MP Slavica Saveljic is not here. The MP Srdjan Milivojevic is not here. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18191	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Presidency and the Honorable Ministers and Associates of the Minister, my colleagues spoke before me and explained this law. Part of the MPs were in favour of the law and praised the law, and part of the MPs was less in favour, but most of the time there was an impression after so much discussion that this was a good and quality legislative proposal. As our head of the parliamentary group has said, and our parliamentary group will vote for this law. Dear colleagues, I'm going to say something about the proposal for a law on basic education and education. In fact, this law aims to create a quality, fair and efficient system of education. I hope this law comes true. This legislative proposal did not introduce any major changes, but there are changes and these are changes for the better, so this is a quality legislative proposal. Unfortunately, with basic education in Serbia and today, as far as I've seen in the material, 5% of students are not covered by the fact that they don't even enroll in primary education at all, and 8% enter basic education, and not finish, which makes up 13%, which is certainly very unfavourable for this time of computer and Internet, and I hope that by implementing this quality legislative proposal, it will change and that all children will finish at least primary school. In fact, Article 2 states that basic education and education is a work of direct social interest and is being realized as a public service. This article already shows that there is concern for young people and education, and it is shown that the interest of the state is that all children be covered by primary education and that after primary schooling they continue. Here I have noted something in article 4 that says that every person has the right to free and quality basic education and education in public school. That sounds nice, of course. It is further said that a public school student can use books, school materials, transportation, nutrition, as well as accommodation when necessary, in accordance with the law. It's said - can be used for free. What does it mean and what it depends on whether they will use books, school materials, transportation, and nutrition for free? Article 6 states that a parent, or guardian, is required to ensure that his child enters and attends school regularly. As far as elementary school is concerned, and so far it has been mandatory, however, we have data that many children today do not enroll or finish primary school. The question for a minister is, what are parents' sanctions if they don't enroll a child in school, because if we say school is of great social interest? So parents are obliged to enroll their children in school. Basic education and education can be done in public school, private school, home education and distances, which I think is also a very good legal proposal. That's a lot to talk about. In Article 12, language of education and education. Paragraph 1 states that educational and experimental work is done in Serbian, which is fine. This is the state of Serbia and everyone needs to know Serbian. In the case of members of the national minority, educational and experimental work is said to be achieved in the language and letter of the national minority, i.e. bilingually if at least 15 students are identified in the first class. I also welcome this solution. There were a lot of words about the formation of the department, or the number of students in the department. Paragraph 2 says that the class of the same class can have up to 30 students. It doesn't say he has to be 30. So there were words about it that it might be better if it were 25. At the time I went to elementary school, we were 42 in one class, and we all finished school. The ministry that proposed this legislative proposal has professional people who certainly well assessed what the number of students in the class is optimal for us. This is something new, and I think it's very positive. It's a program of school sports and sports activities. In the second position, the school is obliged to organise a week of school sport, at least once during the mid-term, as part of the school sport programme together with the local self-government unit. This school sport didn't exist before. There was only physical education, but the kids used to play a lot more after school and play football and play much more sports. Today, when all children are mostly on computers and the Internet after school, I think this school sport if it comes to living that it will contribute greatly to the psychological and psychophysical development of children. It's new, and I think it's very good. Something new is environmental protection, Article 45. It says – environmental protection includes activities aimed at the development of environmental consciousness as well as the conservation of natural resources. I think it's a good time to start learning about ecology in the first grade of primary school, and if the children haven't already learned that education about the preservation of the natural environment. It is a place in school and I welcome the existence of such a member in this law. We have a 68th member where I recorded with a question mark, says – the school within a school facility in co-operation with the advice of the parents of the school organizes a diet for students. I don't know how it's been so far. When I went to school, it was. We all went to that lunch, lunch paid. It wasn't expensive, and at the time all the parents could pay for it. I don't think there should be exceptions. All kids should have that snack. It says – the school in agreement with the local self-government and donors can provide free food for all students, either in general or in part. This school can provide, so it can, but it doesn't have to. In my opinion, it would be better for the school to provide for all students to eat in general or perhaps at some subsidized prices. One more thing about the strike, it's a 78th article that I think is quite fine. I don't know how much they're going to comply with the Labour Act, because ever since my kids go to school, it's been years since there's no strikes. After that, those classes make up for it. This bill requires a minimum working process of 30 minutes per hour, and I think this is totally fine if it can be implemented. It was about funding the school. The funds for financing public school work are provided in accordance with the law, by the state. The private school’s resources are provided by the founder, or parents. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Some children whose parents can pay for it will go to private schools, some will go to public schools, and whether they will be better teachers in private schools or in public schools, we will see. I could end up like this on this bill. We will surely accept this law in the Assembly, at least as I have noticed with most MPs, and how it will be implemented will be the Minister and Government responsible. I hope that this law will be fully implemented and I think this will be a major contribution, both for the state of Serbia and for students and parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18192	The word has a folk MP Bojana Krkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18193	Thank you. In my address today to the National Assembly, I will speak of amendments and additions to the Law on Innovation Action. The proposed amendments and additions to the law came as a result of years of application of laws wishing to remove the observed shortcomings. These amendments and additions shall specify and supplement the provisions of the applicable law which, in a not sufficiently clear or incomplete manner, govern this area. I would point out at the outset that these supplements regulate the allocation of funds by the Ministry or the Innovation Labour Fund to bring state aid in line with the State Aid Control Act. In this way, I believe that budgets will be spent more efficiently and transparently. The next important change is to introduce a deadline for the submission of the annual report of registered entities of innovation activity. These reports should apply to the whole year, and cannot be drawn up before the end of the year to which they relate. Otherwise, untimely delivery would be the basis for applying sanctions, which would mean erasing from an innovation activity register. According to the current legal solution, the submission of the report was an unarmed obligation that allowed the purposeless spending of budgetary resources or the abuse of the status of the registered entity of innovation activity. This is precisely why the new legal solution introduces clear rules that show every possible form of abuse. In addition to this proposal, the law provides for an amendment to the composition of the Innovation Labour Fund Management Board in order to achieve better quality work in this area. Instead of two members of the Management Board appointed under current law by the Fund's staff order, according to new amendments one member will be from the Fund's staff order and the other will be an independent expert with expertise and practical experience in the field of innovation work. I believe this will greatly contribute to the quality of expertise and independence in decision-making. It is important to note that amending the law also ceases to exist supervisory authorities that carry out monitoring tasks for the implementation of the project. In this way, this competence is returned to the restoring ministry, which is largely financed by these innovation projects. So the organ that allocates the funds needs to control their spending. This is the solution we fully support. It is important to mention that the amendments and additions mentioned above specifically support the creation of an ambience for the development of new business entities and business innovations. At the same time, these changes and additions will not require additional funding from the budget. The expected effects of the proposed changes and additions are: to allow full compliance of national legislation in the areas of innovation work with state aid regulations, to remove the basis for the education and licensing of para-state authorities, to introduce deadlines for the implementation of individual obligations of registered entities of innovative activity and to impose sanctions for non-compliance with them. All this will certainly contribute to better insight into the availability of appropriations and control of their dedicated use. In line with the above, we consider it positive and useful to develop the innovative work of amending and supplementing this bill. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will vote in the voting day for the proposed amendments and additions to the Innovation Action Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18194	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18195	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have before us a proposal of eight laws, and I will look back at three laws in this short period – a proposal for a law on basic education and education, a proposal for a law on secondary education and education and a proposal for a law on adult education. At first, I will only mention that, as far as the Ministry of Education is concerned, in the past 12 years, it has been at the head of the Ministry of Education for only two years, at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, so we cannot take responsibility for the state of education in Serbia at the moment. As far as the privatisations mentioned, these disputed ones, initiated by the European Commission to Serbia, are in these 24 privatisations, and there is no DS. Also, there are some other political organisations responsible for poor privatisation. In a very short period of time, we received a set of important education laws. The right to education is one of the fundamental rights. Investment in education, culture and health is reduced year by year, and investment in non-leading state firms, salary officials, cars, bodyguards, representation, in the purchase of aircraft, 132 agencies that spent 750m euros annually. That's why there's no money for education, no money for health care, and no money for culture, and that's what the citizens of our country need to know. Instead of saving in the state administration, new taxes are being introduced to Serbian citizens. How many countries invest in education? Five percent of GDP, and in science 0.3 percent. In recent years, the number of students decreased by 120,000 in primary schools and by 12% in high school. In eastern and southern Serbia, I come from eastern Serbia, more than 50% of the population has only primary school. There's not enough investment in research. There is no obligation to introduce professional practice, extracurricular activity. They used to be called sections, in principle without obligation, such as physical activities, the fight against violence, drug abuse, e-data management, supplementary teaching. Why isn't the student transport better solved? Here, in my neighborhood where I come from, in Kučev it's just one big problem, there are district departments. A provision of four kilometers, to remind you once again, has been valid since 1929. It needs to be reduced to at least two kilometers. This is very important to say for the end where I come from, where the district schools are with a small number of students. In Germany there are departments with three students. The number of students in the departments needs to be reduced, not the number of teachers. There was also talk of reducing teaching staff. The salaries of teaching staff should be increased. It is necessary to perfect and improve education. The Theodore Von Burg case must never be repeated again, so it means to scholarship high-quality students. The textbooks must be free of charge as in Belgrade. I will remind you, there are free textbooks in Belgrade for all basics in two copies. You need to return the affirmative action to enroll children in school, free lunch, toilets in schools. And there was an extraordinary action I must commend, an action by former Serbian President Boris Tadic's office. In my area, all schools are equipped with toilets and computers. The Internet in all schools, special attention for children distracted by development and the Roma population, introduction of preparatory training, that teaching staff and schools for students with developmental disorders organises the preparation of their students to switch to a regular education system. The children of the poor, the minorities, the Roma, deserve special attention. Also, there is a great need for adult education from the poorest groups because 71% of them have not completed primary school or only primary school from education. You had a good will, but I don't think this set of laws can answer the time in which we now live and will not improve education in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18196	The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18197	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, we who have spent our current working life in education are always looking forward to proposals of legislative solutions from the field of education, as we are secretly hoping, that the day will come when we will begin this work with a broad general social consensus on what kind of education system we really need, how it comes to it and how to ensure that it really works with relatively small deviations between the declared and real. The first question to be answered is whether from the educational system, but also from other parts of society, there are already quite obvious signals that there must be a truly large storage that involves a whole new educational concept, since we have been mostly dealing with its cosmetic changes so far? To paraphrasise the famous one – many have so far been involved in trying to improve the education system, but it is actually about that it is fundamentally changing. In order for that to happen, agreement must be reached in at least two relatively general issues. First, that the problems and misunderstandings that are now and since previously followed by education are not of origin, more specifically, they were not created either in school or in other education institutions, but are allocated to some other segments of society. In this regard, it is also the fact that the team and such order should then be resolved, at least if we want more lasting, more comprehensive and sustainable solutions. The second question is to understand the role of education as a fundamental segment of society. Is what socially autistically viewed and is costing, an item on the expenditure side of the budget, or is investment in education investment risky and uncertain, especially if we do not have a good social project to realise? In the opening part of the reasoning of these solutions, it is said that they are the answer to the requirement that each segment of education is specially systemized in accordance with the most general education law, and that these laws have been passed long ago, with many changes and additions in the meantime, hence the need for all of this to be beautifully packaged into a unique, only somewhat redesigned system frameworks. If we look at only the legal solutions offered, in principle and formally, there is not much to object to. The promoter has caught the widest round of tasks and activities in this system, and there is not much reason to criticise at least in principle. Things, however, are much worse when we focus on reality. In fact, we've had most of these solutions so far, but in practice it's functioned according to the method of dead letter on paper, formally, bureaucratically and without real significant shifts in educational practice. I'll take middle school as an example because it's the most professional experience I've ever had. For example, the school roof documents, the school development plan and the school program, are real nightmares for the management of schools that spend a bad energy and time putting them together, often copying them from those schools that have a more qualified fit, and then spending them for years, changing dates only, all to meet the authorities who are in charge of controlling them. Their opinion is the meaning of life, because it could depend on the directorial arrangement, among other things. Not to mention school teams for the prevention of violence, delinquency, alcoholism, drug abuse. What are these laws talking about? That the role of the school will be strengthened in their resolution. That's not at all controversial, but you just need to see how they function and whether they're even qualified to perform that role. Did the authorities of the school, starting with a class elder, through psychologists, educators, and up to teams and directors deal with prevention or perform as a criminal expedition, with students themselves, as they say, figure out they won't be chased from school because teachers need students to have a class fund? Dignified aphorism by the reputation of those – the pen writes with the heart, the school exists for teachers to have a norm. How does that happen? Who cares? The same logic applies to learning. In many secondary schools, bad students start learning at the end of May, they have a scheme – these two I'm going to take, these two I'm going to take for a class exam and I'm going to fix this and it's going to be that way. What kind of message is then sent to other students, less ambitious, except that it can be done because it works every year. Our students unfortunately spend their intelligence more and more on catching curves than on gaining knowledge and skills. When they agree to open up to you, which is very rare, because both teachers and schools experience as a foreign body, you come to the devastating knowledge that they are going to school because they have nothing else to do, that school diploma is of no use to them unless they have a good connection to be buried somewhere, preferably in the public sector. The children realized that the state service was a mother and that the work was being done in a way that had nothing to do with professionality or industriousness or personal responsibility. Often openly, they look pitylessly at teachers who strive to teach them something, wasting their knowledge, skill, and energy. While, on the other hand, they also have teachers who have a job in education to run over the curricula and give grades. They often turn in dictating, as they read from some notes, without feeling, the need to explain matter to the students, not to talk about trouble discussions and the like, not to talk about the right of students to learn their grades and to explain it to them, as well as the norms for grading that are not applied by teachers, some who don't know them, others who ignore them, and others who aren't allowed because the results would be devastating. The outcome is catastrophic in all three situations. The other day, the Minister of Education said that it's not true that our education system is bad because our young experts are highly appreciated in the world, so that's where they went best. Those who can't turn anything away from their personal ambitions, responsibilities and endurance, which multiply when they're found in an orderly system. Maybe there's a way out of this. Why were our students and our schools better before? Because they knew that their diploma was a ticket for social promotion and that their efforts would be able to materialize through their employment, and that they would be able to live from, start a marriage, have children, which they would be able to support. Can today's generations of high school students and diplomats and legal channels, professional engagement and advancement? Then why do they need a school, no matter how great it is. There's only hope for extra talent, because there's always so few. Their results are mostly personal achievements, because teachers don't have time to deal with them because they have to deal with the worst. They're not even motivated, so everything is left to personal enthusiasm, both students and teachers and parents. A special story is children's parents who are legally third pillar of the educational process. In reality, they serve to justify children's lessons by hiding them and lying about them. Because good students also run away from class because they often have no understanding from teachers that they couldn't objectively prepare for that day. Sit down one, it's an increasingly common pedagogical slogan in our schools, or it's more and more parents who ask their children for grades instead of asking for knowledge to be passed on. The assessment has become its goal, and by work, more and more often, it goes through retraining anyway, which is financial benefits for schools, and thus more and more businesses, and it's pretty bad, inconclusive, inflexible, I would say. That's right, my dears, whatever part you touch. The students have legally guaranteed rights, which either don't fully understand or don't know how to make them work, or these channels just don't work. Then there's an evil fate where students bump into their teachers, which is, of course, inadmissible, but sometimes it's not completely inexplicable and unexpected, but it's always harmful for "party in conflict" and everyone is threatened and killed in one way or another. The collection of individual incidents is growing and turning into a social incident, as are the winners of the school world Olympics incidents and not the expected outcome, and we hope to return to their country and contribute. What are we going to give them to do without jeopardizing their progress and especially rewarding them? The promoter further made sure to touch the issues of school sport, as well as the creative use of free time. How many of our schools don't have a gym and how many schools they rent to recreationals or private sports schools to get to some church. Not to mention the quality of the physics class, which often dissatisfactions even the minimum to keep the professor for a while after he enrolls, or to divide the students into little tickles or the like, except for one esteemed colleague who took his job seriously and sent students to the physical exam. I'm not saying all this to embarrass my fellow students or their parents. Believe me, the situation in school is in many cases such that you have to have a strong stomach to endure, even if material satisfaction is far above the republican average, so the story of educational laws and criticism is a member per member for me as well as for my colleagues in education is completely unnecessary under the given circumstances. The school is a polygon where it's so obvious that all our general social difficulties are fractured. The delay in their basic, comprehensive resolution pushes us deeper and deeper, and takes a chance not only on this but also on future generations of children who are getting less and less in schools each year, not because they are not going to go to school, but for reasons of others and deeper ones, and because when we criticize, we also improve the conditions of this set of educational laws more and more, such as the one that we have passed the curricula and the program, we have sold the grades and the knowledge remains only in the diary, because our students are increasingly learning about grades and not to become more educated, more professional, especially to get out of school as better, more diligent and more responsible people on their own, to the joy of the family, but also the well-being of society in general. School and too much of a copy of everyday life that our children don't like at all, and we're obliged to create conditions for them and that they can change it by their own means and not our own, we've already spent too much of their future. In the hope that it will be much better than this picture that you believe is neither gray, seen through pink glasses I will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18198	Thank you. National MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of our debate today in the tide should produce several obvious things. The first is that we are interested in media that will further ask and write and talk about what and what kind of newspaper laws bring from education. I will talk about these three laws in these few minutes, about the system of primary education, about primary education and about secondary education and education. The second is a clear message to all the participants in the educational process, those 126,000 people to be absolutely clear from our discussion of what awaits them. The third is our public, given that these laws concern the lives and everyday lives of a large number of people in Serbia. For me, the most important thing, one family, I will hypothetically call it the Jove family and Olga Petrovic of Novi Sad, who has two children, Milan Petrovic, who is scheduled to enroll in high school and Marina Petrovic who is scheduled to enroll in primary school. The family needs to understand from our debate how the training of Marine Petrovic will differ from what was passed at Milan Petrovic elementary school and how education in the secondary school of their first and oldest son will differ from other children already in colleges. Did we, with our debate, manage to send these people such a message? Unfortunately, I don't believe that. This is essentially an illustration and a response to why education in the media is the latest news, why huge effort, and I know it reliably, people employed in the ministry in school administrations, in the school system do practically invisible work and why there is no debate in society about the most important issue a society can deal with. If we miss today to understand that in 1983, 1984 and 1985 at the Faculty of Technical Sciences in Novi Sad, at the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade, students were educated for jobs that did not exist at the time and that they had been doing these jobs for 20 or 30 years, if we do not understand it then we will not understand that the lack of a clear picture of what is waiting for Marina Petrovic and Milan Petrovic to take away all of us the future. How would I like this law to be read? That Marina will enter a system that supports creatively critical thinking, which supports the game, which supports the free development of personality, which supports the inclusion of all, children with developmental disorders, with disability, which implies a new and fresh approach to what is the transfer of knowledge in the 21st century. How would I like to read this law when Milan Petrovic's education is at stake? Likewise. Is someone gonna read it like that? I can't tell from this debate if anyone who listened to us heard it as a message. I can only take it as my wish. All the new provisions that draw roots and ideas from the Strategy, which is a good document, I recommend it to everyone for reading, all the good things in this room have produced nothing so interesting and with a desire to paint a future for each other so that this family of Petrovic Jovana and Olga in Novi Sad can understand what their children are waiting for. I can add my personal opinion on how education and education are defined here. You know, if we have a language in which the same verbic noun is used for once, hopefully now out of use, the term "examination and correction", retraining and education and education, we have a much bigger problem than we think. Adolescence, as a process, can only run if we put a clear message here what the system of values we want those children to be trained for in 10, 20, 30 years. I repeat, I'm afraid this debate has not given us that message. In the end, about saving. All the stories of the savings and the economic crisis, I'm afraid that saving only serves to eliminate the social functions of the state, and I don't see that the economy is recovering and I don't see that there's any other objective, not even in the EU countries, except that by saving what the state has been giving money to so far, it just stops funding. The one who doesn't finance the education of his young generation, it abolishes his own future. Please don't let that happen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18200	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18201	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Minister and cabinet members, gentlemen, in this address tonight I wanted to repeat what was said, that there is a set of several, someone said eight, legislative regulations in the field of education, which in general analyze and set education as a system, edit it in a better and better way than before. What is important, this harmonised our school system is characterized by the systems that exist in the EU. Not only are these legislative proposals ahead of us, but the very kind and nature of these laws have pointed to the importance of this matter, it has also shown the interest of the MPs to follow the discussion when it comes to this, to analyse the proposals of the law and to take part in the adoption and proposal itself. After all, the duplicated time for the debate also shows that. All this interest, in fact, I think it stems from our relationship to the education system, because we all realize that it's one great strategic resource for every man, every child, every family. All of this has a huge impact on the state and society in general. I would like to point out that this ministry, when proposing this set of laws, has shown great courage, responsibility, studio sensitivity in preparing and analysing all segments of the education system, above all, because it has come into play with the whole system and verticalised all stages of education, which, at one point, when they have come to certain solutions, as is said at the very beginning of this debate, is a broad debate before, in which other relevant institutions participated, means the opinion of the profession. Representative trade unions were involved, which I believe is very important and therefore there have been certain proposals that are ahead of us today and that regulate the system in a more modern way. As was said at the beginning of the debate, proposals for a law on basic and secondary education were in front of the Assembly, in fact, prepared for the 2012 assembly debate, which, in my opinion, suggests that this ministry was still showing its responsibility and concern for the education system and trying to introduce innovation back then. Of course, for other reasons, they did not go into the assembly debate at the time, but in the meantime it was used to give new elements when they were withdrawn, and to improve them, which then leads to a better result. In my view, it is very important to point out that the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was adopted in 2009, was then achieved a more rational approach, a better efficiency of the law, but it is important that in the meantime the Education Strategy was adopted by 2020, which set segmentally certain objectives and, in the meantime, made it possible for us to be in a situation where we can work again today, to comply with this education strategy. As far as that is concerned, I express my certain impression that the system of education, since it concerns children and families, as I have said, huge populations of people who are involved in this process, teachers who are involved, etc., simply in one system, one process that is almost as big as the Danube, cannot therefore be approached by the reform of the education system in one sudden way, because then there is a danger of being overrun by a huge wave and causing some damage. The education system is based on the overall social system and can only be segmentaryly, step by step, easily reformed to obtain the integrity of all participants in the process, and to undermine quality. That is why I see the Ministry’s approach as particularly sensitive, careful, and high - quality. And what I want to point out is that there are several factors in this system, several segments, participants in this process. It's a student, a teacher, a family, a local environment, not to speak any further, and every one of them has a place, has a responsibility, has a role to play. When it comes to the education system, an accent cannot only be placed on the education system, on school and on the role and obligation of teachers. It is big, but the educational process must also mean the role of family. Many of the changes that have, unfortunately, taken place in our society have conditioned that various systems, various values, have been disrupted, that the family has significantly changed its role. So when it comes to the education system, it offers a basis, gives us opportunities, but it obliges us, each of us, every student and every family to take advantage of you. If we do not have an active relationship with this, if we do not teach the child to have an active relationship with it, then any system that you offer will not lead to the right solution and the right quality. That's why I think this approach is good and good, and right here, we need to be aware of these different kinds of our responsibilities. I believe that this is all going towards a common great goal that the state of Serbia is based on knowledge, that it must develop in this direction, that it must ensure better employment of the population, better qualifications, better democracy and better quality of life. Only by setting such a system of education towards such goals can we achieve the results for which we are all interested. The Law on the Foundations of the Education System tangs different levels – basic and medium. It's about their relationships, their quality, their effects. He treats various education institutions. One of its significant parts is in my opinion the Law on adult education. I want to look at this law with a few sentences, which is special because it treats adult education, for the first time as an independent law, which is what this adult education, as it is said, is being introduced into one comprehensive system, and then, as certain goals are being achieved, which we are also interested in, that all of those parts of society that, for a variety of reasons, over 15 years of children, fall out of the regular system, conditionally, I may not have used the best word, from the education system, go back to school, and allow them, according to specific methods, according to their age and other social circumstances, to finish school. This achieves very large and significant goals, which is to raise the general educational level of the population, train the population for new jobs, ensure the flexibility of knowledge in application, which is later important for application in the course of work and also introduce a variety of innovations. It is also very important to say that when it comes to basic adult education, it is very bad that we have some memory of the previous time only when it ended, that is, when they went, many mentioned examples of Jareth, etc. In Serbia, 21.9% of the population has not completed primary school, and 23.9% has only primary school. When we add that up, it's 45.8% of the population that has or doesn't have a primary school. Our goal to bring all that population to school is actually to achieve these conditions that will ensure that all of them are later involved in all social processes and that they have their place in this regard and in the process of work. If society is more developed, if society is richer, there are more educated people. No matter how poor we are, our goals are high and therefore they should also result in a higher technological level in the process of work and a higher educational level. The new era brings new technologies, fast change and flexibility, and now all these processes are even more accelerated than from the period, say, the 18th and 19th centuries when, at that time, our great Enlightener, Dositej Obradović, spoke of the permanent education and education that takes place throughout his life, which he was directly and directly showing through his work. The very forms of adult education, formal, informal and informative learning, in fact, provide this flexibility that leaves every individual with the opportunity and space to meet their needs in that system to find a place in education. This also achieves other effects, such as poverty reduction, social inclusion, intergenerational solidarity, tolerance, interculturalism, the development of democracy and, ultimately, a broad view of the world. Many entities are involved in this adult education system. Of course, the basic foundation is the school, but it is important that the labour market is included, which is also consulted in the proposal for this law, then various skills are provided, and other educational centres and other organizers, public agencies, public enterprises, companies, associations, professional societies, educational centres etc. are included. So, when we talk about this, it's obvious that there's a large coverage of the population here, that this system certainly costs, that it's a big investment, that it's very important for social development, but that education must be in the function of work and training for work that must become a cult and a fundamental value, to ensure that each individual's competence is increased and thus increase social development and finally the development of democracy. That is why such a courageous approach should be welcomed and taught us that only by learning adults and children come to new values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18202	Thank you. MP Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18203	Dear colleagues, respected citizens, Mr. Minister, we are all aware of the difficult financial situation in which our country is located and that the funds allocated to education at an annual level are about 4% of GDP, which is very little. Of course, this must not and should not be an excuse to not do everything in our power, that the situation in the field of education and education is not raised to a higher level, and this set of laws in the field of education is just creating a legal framework for better functioning of the education and education system and improving its quality, efficiency and availability. The proposed Law on adult education for the first time regulates this area, which should contribute to improving the education structure of the population and reducing unemployment. The results of the latest census show that the number of illiterate in Serbia has decreased significantly, but that illiteracy has not been eradicated. Every tenth person does not have a primary school, while writing or writing is written in part. It also concerns that among the unemployed in the population between 31st and 50th, the primary school has only about 39%, while the percentage in the population is over 50 years 46%. We welcome the proposing's intention to allow these people to be educated, overqualified or passed additional training and, more importantly, to motivate them to become competitive on the labour market, so that they can cope with the daily demands of social and economic life. One of the most important principles on which adult education is based is equal opportunities for education and education, regardless of year, gender, difficulties and disturbances in development, disability, racial, nationality and other personal property. The proposed changes to the system law, the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, in particular, emphasises that children of students and adults with development and disability disorders, regardless of material conditions, have access to all levels of education, as well as the need to reduce student depletion, especially from undeveloped areas and categories of population that are socially endangered. About 5% of children do not enter primary school, while in rural areas the percentage is higher and is about 20%. The knowledge of students in Serbia is the knowledge of the reproductive type, while functional knowledge is below the world and regional level, which shows the results of the PISA tests. Data from the last PISA test show that every third 15-year-old in Serbia is functionally illiterate, while the negligible percentage of students in the highest knowledge categories is below 1%. It's nice to hear that some of our students and students have achieved a remarkable success in one of the international and republican competitions. I would especially like to commend the students of Mathematical High School and their teachers, as an example of quality work, but we must be aware that these are just individual cases. The proposed laws, as well as part of the reform of education, should allow such an image to be changed and as a good legal solution in this direction, is also the scholarship of extremely talented students and students, who have been specified and brought into line with current practice in the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student and Student Standards, in order to provide regionally the budgetary resources intended for material support for students and students. It is important to point out that the proposed laws on basic and secondary education and education recognise the need to strengthen protection against violence, abuse and neglect and other forms of risky behaviour. Given the growing increase in peer violence in schools, as well as prevention programmes that involve co-ordinated activities of schools, parents, or guardians and local communities, the aim is to address these problems. In order for parents to avoid the safety of their children in schools, especially on excursions, it is necessary to make their organization’s control more stringent. A new legal solution and the possibility of teaching at home, at a distance, which has been regulated in many countries, the possibility that schools in the system of regular education and education are engaged by defecologists to improve the inductive education of persons with developmental disorders, which in practice proved to be a need, as well as the provision of snack, since in Serbia each seven children are hungry. Finally, the reform of education is very important, and it also requires us to do so in the process of European integration, given that knowledge is one of the most important resources of each country. There is a significant space in Serbia to improve the efficiency and quality of education at all levels. It is important to stress that countries that have a more educated population and make faster economic growth, the proposed laws are a good step in this direction. With this, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed legislation in the field of education in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18204	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Dinić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18205	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable Members of the People's Parliaments and MPs, is now before us the proposal for a law on secondary education and education, which in the field of education and education represents a special law. In addition to the objectives governed by the system law in the field of education and education, this special law is closer and more detailedly regulating the long-term development of secondary education in the Republic of Serbia, as is necessary to ensure the basic foundation of life and development of each individual, society and knowledge-based state. During my work in a high school educational institution in Nis, I saw the direction reforms in the educational and experimental system should contribute to the formation of young people. In fact, it is necessary to see what the education system should be in the Republic of Serbia in order to respond best to the life and development needs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and society in general. The answer to this question is precisely defined by strategic measures, in fact, given by this proposal for a law on secondary education and education. This special law enables the development of a system of education to be understood from the perspective of its function towards the outside world, for whom it exists, to work with the real participation of the entire society, especially the part of which education is the most concerned, in a way that would allow the education system to literally open to the community in which it lives, but that no one manipulates it to satisfy the interests of certain groups, thus creating a population of modern, creative, motivated and qualified to apply acquired knowledge for a certain time. In this way, the Republic of Serbia will no longer remain a poorly competitive state, unattractive to investing in sectors that create a greater new value, without the capacity to develop a demographic society. One of the most important components of this bill is the relying on the education system in Serbia to the current state of the system, but driven by the future development needs of society in our country. In other words, it has been seen what a system of education should be to build strong relations with the economy, culture, science, technology, public services and numerous challenges of humanistic, social and other social development. In order to develop a healthy life, awareness of the importance of your own health and security, the need to develop your physical ability, the school sport programme is envisaged, but also through the increased role of local self-government and social community, whose representatives will plan the content and way of this cooperation. As part of this, co-operation with young people's offices in local self-government units has been largely opened. Education and education in the system of secondary education institutions is also designed by this proposal of the law in detail, efficient and quality in which way the school should recognise the development of competences necessary for further education, the active role of citizens and life in modern society, the development of professional competences necessary for successful employment, training for independent decision-making on choice of further education and occupation, awareness of the importance of health and safety at work, training for quality communication in teamwork, respect for all types of equality, tolerance and respect for diversity, the development of self-initiative, expression of its opinion, etc. The proposal for a law on secondary education and education is particularly designed to support education and education of students and adults who need it for development, disability, specific learning difficulties, social deprivation and other reasons. The strategic definition in the education of these persons is an inclusive approach to education in order to achieve optimal participation of students in regular work, their independence and progress in preparation for the work world. In the implementation of this inclusive education and training, it is also allowed to use professional help from competent persons in this area. However, in order to ensure available education for persons with developmental disorders, special conditions such as transport security should be ensured when educational institutions are at a greater distance, physical availability of areas where the educational and educational process takes place, the provision of technical assistance, the assistance of the personal assistant, etc. Also, what's very important... (President: Time.) ) Based on all the facts presented and all that my colleagues had previously said, I would just add that the SPS in the voting day will also support this proposal for a law on secondary education and education, as well as a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18206	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. There are four minutes left for your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18207	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of my presentation to commend your assistant, Mr. Zoran Kostic. We used to be in the coalition, but really our co-operation continued after that. He's always been too friendly for all the system laws. Even when we discussed this set of laws, we had the opportunity to meet with him and to consider any objections and suggestions. We had a wonderful collaboration and communication. I think it is a good example that opposition and positional parties can work together in one quality way, especially if this cooperation and this dialogue will bring about some quality proposal. National MPs, one of the first initiatives of the government of Zoran Djindjic in 2001, were comprehensive reforms in the field of education. A whole package is proposed, a whole set of measures in the field of education. Unfortunately, an expert and, above all, political public, the opposition public then welcomed these changes and reforms to the knife. We have been declared imperialists who now want Serbia to enslave not by bombing, but by implementing a set of reform laws in the field of education. Zoran Djindjic said education is a locomotive that will run Serbia forward. Unfortunately, the new government, which came after the tragic killing of Zoran Djindjic, immediately annulled those laws, suspended reforms and implemented reforms in the area of education was no longer a priority. It's just a partial change of pace to put out the fire. Time has shown the importance and far-reaching importance of these reforms. Unfortunately, they were not properly accepted in the work of the professional public, although they proved to be very good. Today we don't have a situation like that in 2001 when we adopted a set of laws in the field of education, that the entire government is here and shows what education is important for future generations. It's not the law on education, it's the law on the future of this country. Our law on education will speak about our relationship to the future of this country and how we plan to develop this country. I must warn you from the ministry that you have very dangerous coalition partners who like to perform experiments when it comes to education. This tells us an example from the educational institution, the preschool institution "The Joyful Childhood" from Novi Sad, where the separation of male and female children is planned after the trip to Russia. After pressure and heated reactions to the public, they said it was not true and that they were giving it up, but they were very much preparing the public for it. After a truly energetic reaction from our public, especially in Novi Sad, that experiment was dropped. I have two more things to criticise in this law. The first is that schools make a website. It's a good thing the school has a website, some people who understand IT and make websites will be employed, but I have to tell you that in Dučovići, where my grandfather, Markovica, was born, they don't have a toilet in the Ovcar School. We don't have a toilet in many schools in Serbia. What's it gonna say on the site? Dear children, your nearest toilet is four kilometers, so hold on till you get home. I can see the disgust of a colleague, but let's take care of basic needs first. When it comes to pedestrian students, it is inappropriate for children to walk four miles to school without having the right to drive. In the end, when it comes to education, I have to say this. There goes the budget rebalance. You will see your attitude towards education at the rebalance of the budgets and the money that you will spend on education. When Germany attacked England in 1939, the Minister of Culture and Education of England said - I am giving my budget for the purpose of war. Churchill replied: "What then do we defend?" Take care when we adopt budget rebalances, see what we plan for the future and what we defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18208	National MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18209	Dear Mr Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will now first say something about the proposal for a law on the protection of topography of semi-conductive products, and in the second part of the presentation I will refer to this set of laws on education and education. As regards the proposal for a law on the protection of topography of semi-conductive products, this bill should achieve the following objectives: to bring domestic legislation into line with EU legislation; to protect the intellectual and other property treated by the law, both in Serbia and abroad. In order to achieve this, or facilitate, nomenclature and definitions, it is desirable that they be taken over from the EU, that we have basically identical names, concepts and definitions. This creates an assumption of full consent and recognition of legislation. It is therefore appropriate to refer to specific EU legal acts, as stated in the proposal for a law – Directive on the legal protection of semi-conductive topography No 87/54 EC since 16 December 1986, but also to others dealing with this problem. In principle, the proposal for this legislative act, since it regulates materials that change at an incredible rate, would have to pay attention to the following things: do not allow the change of technology, and thus the terminology, to put the legal act into effect. Then comes the necessity of changing the law. In order to avoid, or rather, avoid, a quick correction of the law and avoid complicated procedures, it must be thought ahead and make assumptions about it. That is another reason that speaks in favour of taking over the nomenclature and definitions. It particularly falls into the eyes of section 5 of Article 2 of this Act, which reads: "or a product containing such a semi-conductive product" which is not a practice anywhere in the world. Namely, a semi-conductive product which is subject to the protection of property in a manner prescribed by these and similar regulations to be incorporated into other electronic circuits does not necessarily burden producers of the same, given that the commercial price of the semi-conductive product is included in the fee based on intellectual property. Otherwise, any product would be burdened with different duties, which is, firstly, impossible to record everything, and secondly, would further create an increase in price, which would again affect competitiveness and anything else that follows market movements. In practice, it would look like this: buy a device that contains a set of protected topography, a right holder appears and asks the manufacturer to degrade it. Anyone would have referred it to the manufacturer of the semi-conductive product concerned to regulate its obligations because the manufacturer of the device legally bought a semi-conductor on the market and installed it in his product. That would look like a case if someone was trying to charge VAT multiple, which is notsens. If that formulation meant something else, in this case it was necessary to better explain, in order not to create any misunderstandings of this species. The dilemma creates the contents of the second paragraph of Article 4 of this Bill, which says: "The protection enjoyed by the topography of semi-conductive products in accordance with this law cannot be extended to the idea, process, system, technique, on which topography is based or encrypted information contained in topography, except for topography". I don't think there's an option here to protect the technological part of the design of protected topography, because in the technological process of producing certain semi-conductor elements, it often occurs as a factor and the time of warming or exposure to other sources of radiation of work and the whole semi-conductive product which significantly affects the functionality, accuracy and regularity of the relevant semiconductor element, so it would have to be an integral part of protected topography. As regards the procedures in the members defining the rights of the holder, the rights to protection relate to the protection procedure from Articles 6 to 27 of this Act is not provided for an important regulation. In fact, no time limit has been set anywhere which obliges the competent authority in which it is obliged to make a decision on the protection of the rightholder, so it is possible for the applicant to apply for topography to be brought not by his own fault in a legally undefined status, regardless of the fact that his application is orderly and without any deficiencies treated by Article 21 of this Act. The right place to specify a legal period within which the competent authority is required to decide upon the correct application with the complete accompanying documentation is a member of the 24th draft law. There's something I'd like to say in further presentation about our education and education, that is, a set of basic and secondary education laws. I will refer to what I consider to be the most important, which is to pour out students, i.e. reducing the number of students, school security, curricula and programs, as well as textbooks and inclusive teaching. Since 1945, there have been eleven radical school reforms and four smaller ones today. Each one was meant to facilitate education, and each one we faced with greater difficulties in education and education. It turns out that almost every minister had some ideas that should have been carried out so as we did. The number of reforms says there was no long-term policy in education and education, on the contrary, unfortunately. Now's the chance to fix something. We all know that the number of students is decreasing everywhere, and hence the number of primary and secondary schools. The reason is known, the fall of the natality, i.e. the white plague that is ruling in Serbia, as well as in most of Europe. The education system must deal with it, but when we want to be in the EU and support its values, why we do not look at the Benelux countries, for example, where the standard number of classes is 16 to 18, or, for example, in England and Germany, which far exceed Serbia by population and where the number of students is 24 per grade, while we have 25 to 33 students. In rural schools, we know what the situation is in the villages that are shutting down. Standards would have to be more flexible, but that doesn't mean that urban children are pushed into overcrowded wards and are given less quality classes. The conclusion is that we should manage the positive experiences of European countries. As for school security, it's a special story, it doesn't mean it's entirely subject to the regulations of these laws, but it's a real opportunity to talk about it too because it's a big problem. His statement, I am convinced, will come across a positive echo with citizens, because we are primarily representatives of our citizens. So there's external and internal security. It's an external one that comes from strangers who threaten the safety and safety of students and teaching staff. These are different sides of people who bring security into schoolyards and school facilities, supply money, make threats or sell narcotics or other illicit funds or products and they must be sanctioned. As for internal control, or security, it refers to students who are putting other students and sometimes teachers, or teachers, at risk, and who pose verbal and physical threats to others. We are not handling the positive experiences of the Western world where multiple misdemeanors are referred to the competent institutions. They are subject to legal rules of access to school change and other measures, all about the cost of parents. If anyone calls for a penny, there's no fear. In most cases, the wrongdoers are children of the rich and the arrogant. Worst of all, it comes out to students with deviant behavior and irresponsible and influential parents, so there are unwarranted cases of such a student returning to class after treatment and continuing with even more severe harassment of the environment, led by remandism, and besieged by the fact that he is not sanctioned in an appropriate manner, and he should and should. The role of the school administration headed by the director, including the school police officer, should be predefined by their powers of greater but also by responsibility and control by the competent ministry. As far as the curriculum and the program is concerned, it's a special story. Parental and traditional content no longer resides in school textbooks in the country of Serbia. What about the fact that the Queen Mark is no longer in school books, but that's why there's a story of a guy named My Grandma Bank robber. The parents' madness is by buying them for every school year is our everyday life, because for God's sake, it's changing the drastic program. In fact, we all know, it's about giving some people the opportunity to betray textbooks and have a safe placement. More publishers allow for greater manipulations, not to mention the fundamental stability of state policy that goes hand in hand with other types of stability, including the teaching programme. What was part of our early youth, which we now remember with nostalgia, is the succession of books in the family from older brothers, sisters. Today it is impossible for us to thank tireless textbook writers, and it is logical that they write much faster than children grow up. A joke aside, where is the concern of the socially endangered population here, and almost everyone is at risk, and almost everyone is affected by this policy? And in the end, I'd like to say a few words about the inclusion, which is so problematic that it may be overcoming the problems previously presented, but it's less public knowledge, less talk. I'll start again from the EU. In EU countries, if I'm not mistaken, and you correct me, it's experimentally introduced. At our house right now and everywhere. It's been going since 2003. It is less known that there are nine categories of students. In the first very talented students, in categories two to eight, there were other students with some physical deficiency. They are students who are able to follow the course and, in accordance with their abilities, be part of the collective and no distractions from being accepted by the environment. It's also an inclusive class. However, the accent is given to the ninth category of students, and these are children with mental disorders. Of course there are different cases with their categories. They're placed in a group of children with special needs, and that's how the public gets the impression that they're the only ones with a name, and the truth is that children from other categories are children with special needs, e.g. children with disabilities. But why is that? Perhaps the answer is that children with some physical deficiency are less than children in the ninth category, so it is also less money for inclusive teaching. To avoid confusion, this review is not inspired by discriminatory initiatives, but by the desire to help their children, and to do so in such a way that no one's rights are threatened. When that program was introduced to elementary school, where I come from, from Nis, there are 30, most teachers pleaded negatively and realized they were unable to carry out regular classes in a good way. For example, at one elementary school in Nis of 21 one teacher, 19 of them were particularly opposed, only two abstentions said that they would try. But who asks teachers, orders - execution. Epilogue - complete fiasco. Not because the middle didn't accept new students, and it was controversial, but because, in most cases, those kids weren't able to follow the class at all, which was more disturbing by other children. And in the end, education and education laws don't mention parents anywhere. Caring parents constantly criticise their children justly, and sometimes unjustly. We say - the world remains on our descendants. We are concerned about what kind of world of the future remains in our hands, and if we are wondering who shapes those hands, who, and in any way, influences the formation of the opinion of the behaviour of the categories and if we bear part of the responsibility for their education for the part that they carry from home before we disappoint them. If our children are poetically said "young, gentle plants", do we spray them with flower poisons and cut the roots instead of watering, and what do we expect from tomorrow? Thank you. President (Nobojsa Stefanovic): Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18210	Thank you. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, gentlemen of the ministry, in the past 20 years with four of their boys, as a parent and guardian, a member of the school board, a member of the Parents' Council, I have overcome many barrels and storms of our primary and secondary education, and it has never been like this and has never been a good material basis for work and there have always been problems. But in this set of proposed laws, I recognize something good, I recognize something better, and I hope that with good sublaws, along with good plans and programs that will be the basis and backbone of everything we're talking about, we can expect good results. The primary objective of all proposed laws is to improve the education system of RS, and to align it with modern European education systems. As I prepared for this discussion on this complex and very important issue and important area in our life, I studied the legal frameworks in the countries in the environment and the republics of Italy and made sure that many solutions were proposed primarily in the Law on Fundamental Education as well as solutions in Italian legislation. Here, above all, I think of an area such as organising and raising students with developmental and disability disorders, the goals of primary education and education, as well as the outcome of the same. Unfortunately, what is not the same is that they have one year of elementary school, five years of primary education, and three years of secondary secondary education and much less programmes. But I hope that we too will solve some of the problems that have been achieved so far in what I have pointed out in the curriculums and programmes. What should be pointed out in particular is that with all kinds of development of each child, as specialities in accordance with its age, development needs and interests, as well as the development of creative abilities and creativity, the development of motivational elements for independent learning and education throughout life, this is something positive and something new. Also, what should be commended is the development plan and all the measures it foresees, and first measures to prevent violence and increase co-operation between students and teachers. Measures for introducing innovative teaching methods, learning to eliminate classical and oscillating methods of work, already create interactions between teachers and students and thus make more interesting lessons and increase the attention and engagement of students, as well as a plan for the involvement of parents, or guardians in school work. The document that implements development plans and overall education in school is a school programme and a proposed legal solution, it contains a large number of very important programmes, such as a cultural activities programme, a school sport programme without which there is neither top sports nor top athletes, a programme of protection against violence, abuse and neglect, a programme of professional orientation, a programme of environmental protection, a programme of cooperation with family through principles highlighted in this bill. The focus is on the processes and outcomes of learning, respect for age and characteristics in the process of gaining knowledge, horizontal and vertical links in teaching subjects, knowledge and respect for individual differences among students, the development of a positive relationship between students towards school and learning. What I believe is that the proposed law needs to change the number of students in the departments, and I see that it is the conclusion of many of us, and I think that it is necessary to change the position of Article 2 of Article 30 where the class can have up to 25, instead of up to 30 students. From previous discussions, I realized that this is the current problem and that it is being considered in some future period when we are both more materially rich and when other conditions allow it. When we talk about the proposal for a law on secondary education, we should highlight the objectives and general outcome of education and education above all, as well as the development of professional competences necessary for successful employment, training for independent decision-making on the choice of profession and further education, as well as training to solve problems, communication and teamwork. In particular, it is important to highlight the solutions set out in this bill concerning the programme of career management and counselling of students, the programme for environmental protection, the programme for protection against violence, abuse and neglect, as well as the programme of co-operation with the family and the programme of co-operation with local self-government. Also, I think the number of students should be reduced to 25. Based on the above-mentioned draft law, the Serbian Progressive Party's voting day will support the set of education laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18211	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18212	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, the issue of education is the national issue of every country, including the Republic of Serbia. We have before us a set of education laws, which certainly, by the time given from 10 hours, requires special attention and special interest and special debate of all MPs. I will rely first on the Law on basic education, and this will be based on those provisions that I deeply consider to be about protecting the best interests of the child, the students, which are the provisions of laws that are educational, the first provision of a law relating to school co-operation with the family. I find this very important in the educational work of the school precisely because the protection of the best interest of students can be adequately addressed by adequate co-operation between parents and schools. In this co-operation between parents and schools, school allows parents to attend the educational process in the context of open school days, which is once a month. I am personally familiar with the examples of many parents who attended class, and then there was a more adequate relationship between parents and teachers, because we all know that one part of the parents has too many expectations for their child, i.e. there is no real insight into his educational attainment. Giving the parent the opportunity to attend the educational process is certainly one way to build a partnership relationship between school and parents on the principles of understanding, support and tolerance, and all of course in order to adequately educate students. What I also want to point out as positive are individual education plans. Why? Each child has the right to education according to his abilities and, of course, according to his potential. Children with disabilities and children with developmental disorders should also be entitled to education according to their abilities. We know that these children come to primary school after the evaluation of the interresor commission, which is otherwise multidisciplinary, formed by local self-government, which is composed of experts in the field of education, in the field of health, in the field of social protection and two other experts according to the specific characteristics of the child and they actually assess the needs of the child from the educational, health and social aspects. So every child should have the right to optimally develop those potentials that can develop with it. Of course, as part of these individual educational plans, apart from the inter-resor commission, except for the school's expert teams, the parent, or child-teacher, is actively involved. These individual educational plans are subject to also reviewing, reviewing and removing all those obstacles and shortcomings in the path of optimal, educational development of each child. What also deserves to be praised is that the ministry, regardless of these four kilometers, is provided means of transporting these children with special needs, transport costs, regardless of distance, or at these four kilometers. Schools are also required to remove physical and communication barriers to adequate inclusion of children with disabilities and special needs. What I recognize as a difficulty somewhere is underdeveloped services in all areas, both in the fields of education, in the fields of health and social protection, and those services at local level, which should provide adequate support to both children and families and children with special needs, as well as their families in overcoming all these obstacles that are evident in children with special needs. What I also want to praise are violence prevention programs, juvenile delinquency programmes, psychoactive substance abuse programs. Of course, the school is not an isolated system and that the school cannot work and that all tasks, both educational and educational, have been fulfilled and excluded from society, but it is also known that the Ministry of Education in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, has adopted a protocol on the treatment of children against violence and abuse and neglect. I'd just like to look back on one more aspect, which is the aspect of adult education. There's one stereotype that once learned knowledge is valid forever. Of course that's not true. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates a culture of learning and education. She needs to be life-long. It's the only way we'll always have quality personnel at all times. Otherwise, educated human resources are the largest capital for the Serbian Progressive Party. These are some of the reasons the Serbian Progressive Party will support this set of laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18213	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18214	Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the ministry, fellow Members of Parliament, before I say anything concrete about these laws, I would like to refer to some of our colleagues' discussions. During the two-day debate, it is noted that these are strategic laws that are important for the state. It was more of an incentive than any of us who are in a ruling coalition understand it now. Citing it, it is insufficient and a double debate under this set of laws. In my opinion, anyone who has read this law, and some opposition emissaries have insinuated us that even some of our MPs have not read these laws, which is not true, considering every sentence, in every sentence of change and addition of the law, I see that there is a great work behind this not only of the Ministry. It's objectively who has read these laws, looking at every sentence, in each sentence supplementing and amending the law, I see that there is one great war, not just the ministry. This double debate on these laws implies, as we are told, that the profession for the relevant areas certainly gave an opinion. It was said, and the majority opinion. I understand what this means, because surely in any expert debate concerning such a sensitive set of laws, there are different opinions and approaches, but the decision is democratic and majorityal. The opinion, which is again based on the profession and not on politics, has been translated into law here. These discussions suggest that the maltenes of this law and these changes in all laws do not bring anything new, even more collapse of the existing system. Paradoxically, now I want to discuss extremely neutrally, on the side, so I'm going to go back a little bit in history. Some MPs were asking questions here - let's ask our parents, so let's ask the teachers, and ask the students if they are satisfied with these changes. 30 years ago, you asked the students if they were satisfied, they weren't happy. That you asked the teachers and they weren't satisfied with the status or the large teaching programs. Parents, too. You need to look at it extremely realistically and objectively. Education is strategically important for the state, but it is subject to evolution, not revolution. What does that mean? This means that it is based on some previous tradition, so it is based on some inherited networks, cultural heritage, social strength and the development of society, economic strength and the development of society. So we can't sit down and write or be able to do ours 30 years ago, rule out what the system was, write the law, so it works phenomenally, when we don't have those resources. So jumping on all the changes in laws and changes in education is really logical. Education is a dynamic process. In life, appropriate things seemed to be good, so they proved to be wrong. I don't need to run away from every year, to use that term, to change individual members of the law, because that's the only way in which, step by step, brick by brick, to prepare education, and all of us here and here, and even our ancestors, to leave 200 years ago, they knew that education and education should be the future and strength of the state. But the historical circumstances, the economic power, dictates something that often we too are dissatisfied, so I remember 30 years ago and they were teachers, students, unhappy that education reform is not going fast enough. We all want it to go faster now, but it is important to keep going forward and to keep making improvements and thus slowly profiling, grooming and improving education. We're talking about one segment of education here, and these are the laws relating to primary, secondary school, this roof law regarding the basics of education and education systems. In order to complete this set of laws, however, it is probably necessary, in my opinion, to make changes to preschool law and education in accordance with this roof law and that makes one continent that needs to be rounded up. The third aspect of the discussion was a difficult situation, unemployment and all in contortion of these amendments to the laws that sound so, in my opinion, pessimistic and hopeless, that right now because of the whole situation, practically children don't need to be educated, they don't need to finish professional schools either. There's no work, they don't need to study, they don't have to do anything. We can't look so nihilistic. Even though there's no job, there's got to be knowledge. There must be skills. It must be obtained and to maintain the tone of one education and education. So, according to that, we now, according to estimates, need to close 30% of schools and colleges right now. We need that approach pessimistic to mention. All these discussions that have been heard in various remarks, in the good part, are good things. In fact, they express precisely that these laws are very important and that they will always be made up of objections and include some debaters who just wanted political coloration against, most have pointed to some objective parts and remarks that are good, but certainly cannot fit into a framework that I just mentioned and that is limited to all some organisational networks, economic power, but it is important that the discussion remains as the goal of changing and correcting it in the future. Basically, looking at all the laws and looking at this roof law, in fact, a system law called the Education and Education System Act, because these other two laws, the law on secondary education and basic education, is now the development of certain concrete things related to the specificity of the work relating to secondary schools, i.e. basic education. Looking at all this, not to repeat myself, many of my colleagues, especially from my MP club, cited many of the good parts of this law, which are factual, and which relate to the grooming and repairing of adult education laws, and then the inclusion that, both in primary and secondary schools, develops with one system, strategic principle and classifies that this is a waste of primary education and secondary education, especially related to socially sensitive categories and especially students distracted in development, so it is one detail that improves the quality of this law. On the other hand, we have a high-quality individual educational program. A newspaper that has passed unimportant, transparent and impartiality in the process of electing teachers who conduct teaching abroad. None of us knew until recently how to choose these teachers. They are now expected to choose a public competition where a better transparency and familiarity will be achieved and this is also an important moment. Since I'm running out of time, I'll cut it short. I listed some things that certainly improve this Law on the basis of a system of education and education. I said secondary education and primary school, later develops all these programmes related to specially systematiced individual programs, protection against abuse, violence, abuse of psychoactive substances, other harmful pleasures, such as smoking, alcoholism. What's equally significant is that I like it because we also mentioned a partnership in one of the Health Laws. There was a partner relationship between doctors and patients, and here a partnership is mentioned both teaching staff of the school with the family, parents, regardless of whether they are children who are the largest part of the school, and especially children who are distracted in the development with disabilities, so they are covered in all segments of primary and secondary school education. These are all elements that improve and improve this part of the class. I'd just like to say one more law that is actually logistical support for these laws, the basics of the education and education system, the law on high and elementary school, and that's the Law on student and student standard. This law makes the whole, to use the term, it is a logistical support that should interfere and stimulate however difficult the conditions for students to achieve better success and to put much more effort into mastering this material, perfecting and learning. In this law you have practically one chapter added, which was not related to scholarships, or credit assignments, to translate into ordinary language, and scholarships for extremely gifted students and students. That's exactly where the terms are listed. There is a chance that someone who has been a good student since the second grade of high school can get a scholarship, and if they meet the conditions, there is a chance in the course of studies of these primary and later doctoral studies, which is the same as a major promotion, and since the law is yet to be passed, that students who are now and when the law is passed can already be included since the third year. So those who are in high school have a second-class chance of following their knowledge and that society adequately reciprocates for their efforts, talents, and what they want to achieve. With these scholarships, there are a lot of administrations in terms of keeping records of students and records of institutions, which is sometimes so secondary to us, and what is very important in the legal system of the state, so it is practically in this law, with the mention of eradicating the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artistic Youth, which is in fact now a single savings of funds that have been spent on this, they focus on these scholarships. I'd like to ask the Ministry to do one thing, and I'll finish it, pay attention. Statistics are given here and the problem that has arisen around these scholarships due to the growth of students who have a high average. So, first of all, the rate is getting lower, the limit is rising from eight and a half to nine to get a scholarship, and here is the fact that in 2002, I'm reading this for the public, it's 1,174 scholarships, so 2009 would be 7,046, that's seven times higher, and now from 2009 to 2013, it's 14,000. It was a school reform, and when I look at, in many colleges, it's now about that, no matter how much it's said, I know what conditions I had to teach in 2001 with a graphoscope and plastic foil, so I know that I later had a learned presentation. Now there's no more graphoscopes, I'm talking in college. There were remarks that some schools had one computer. Every student in Belgrade has a computer. Unfortunately, this equality can't always be achieved at the same time and it should be done, not to defend Belgrade at the expense of a place in the hill, but also 100 years ago someone was able to study near Belgrade, and someone from Pasjac and Kopalnik went to all the trouble of coming to study. So this is not what I want to say in terms of justice, but to look at and be objective and critical, that it's important that there are two computers in a small place, and she didn't have any. Of course, the ministry's efforts must be that every student has a computer there, but looking at it step by step and two computers to the part where there was no progress. It's supposed to go that way, not this to be an abject that we've done something, it's done something, but it needs to be further improved. I started with these scholarships. It is necessary, however, as a university professor, and so is the minister, on some objective parameters to do this estimate of this number. I'm sure there's a lot of objectively quality teaching here, but to be fair, there's definitely not going to say some college and school profiles, I'm putting everything in the same level, which might be easier to grade, but it would be good to have a recorded situation. I'm not saying this as a criticism, I'm saying, I'm saying, "Let's get some experience out of it and get where it's easier to set up." This statistic should point to some more detailed analysis of this. I like not to have 14,000, where I'm lucky there's 35,000 with an average of over nine. That's what we should be looking for. As far as I'm concerned, I want it to be such a climate, but it needs to be an objective climate and we need to objectively look at it and see if it's the right state and if it's not entirely right, where it's wrong and that part is correct. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18215	The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18216	Dear President, Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly refer to the Law on Middle Education. The area of secondary education is important in the overall education system. It is more by the fact that in the overall qualification structure of the population secondary education has the most and that many are determined to enter the world of work after the end of this cycle. Thus, a quality legal framework that would regulate this area would create preconditions for raising the quality of expertise, a competence that is currently, that international tests in which Serbian students took part are not at the required level. The proposed law changes the 20-year-old High School Act that has long ceased to be an adequate legal framework. The new law in the spirit of modern solutions, which lays down the system law on the basics of education and education systems, establishes the obligations of secondary schools to adopt development plans, as well as the school programmes which represent the framework in which the educational-examination process is carried out and the guidance given to both pupils and parents, covering all processes and activities that are aimed at the objectives set out both in the law and in those programmes. Given that students of secondary schools are persons in the age of adolescence, the law pays special attention to the submission of a programme of protection against violence and other forms of risky behaviour, with active participation by the local community and all relevant institutions, as well as the obligation of the restoring ministry to publish once a year a list of persons trained to suspend the achievement of a risk prevention programme on its website. What the law first introduces is the existence of so-called The centre model, which would represent a school that contributes specifically to the development of the educational process, achieving programmes and activities that promote educational and experimental work. In this way, those schools whose collectives specialise in establishing new values in the system of secondary education will be stimulated and represent examples of good practice, which are of interest to the entire system. Also, this law, as in the case of elementary school, introduces the possibility of learning at home and learning at a distance, which is a novelty in our education system, in line with the material in other opportunities that schools currently have. The paper introduced by the law is required to carry out the preparatory course for the passing of the correction exam, at least 10% of the annual fund of the course from which the correction exam is taken, as well as the preparatory course for the completion of the graduate final exam for all students, at least 5% of the annual fund of the course from which the graduate final exam is taken. The draft law retains existing provisions regarding the enrolment of students who have shown themselves to be good in practice. This time, however, no step has been taken to adapt the registration policy, labour market needs, taking into account, above all, secondary vocational schools from which most students end up waiting for employment on the National Employment Service records. In this regard, we intervened with the amendment, seeking that the school should obtain the opinion of the regional organisation, the organisational service of the National Employment Service in whose territory it is established, and that opinion and its proposal must be delivered to the Ministry, which finally decides on the number of students to be enrolled. In this way, it would be possible to reflect to a certain extent the needs of the labour market and the opportunities for their later employment when determining the number of students of risk educational profiles. As one of the key newspapers, the law defines a mid-cycle exam, as well as the first and second education classes, which students receive when passing those exams. As exams ending secondary education are defined general graduates, professional or artistic graduates, final exams as well as specialist and master's exams, as the final exam after the completion of the four-year general education in high school, four-year professional or artistic education in secondary or artistic school, three-year education, for relevant professions, one-year or two-year specialist or master education for certain special professions. With regard to the rights acquired in the course of the exams, for the first time, the right is established for the persons who are in general, to enter basic academic or vocational studies without the admission of the exam, while in the case of persons who have passed a professional or artistic degree, this right is limited to those structural programmes that correspond to scientific and professional, or artistic fields in which they have completed secondary education. In this way, people who have acquired already certain knowledge within secondary education are directed to continue to deepen at the therapeutic level of education, to avoid a negative phenomenon that young people who have graduated from secondary schools in one area later enter colleges that do not have almost any touch points, which is rarely a huge burden on them and condition long-term study. The proposed law represents a set of solutions that essentially do not change the concept of secondary education in our country, but largely modernises the legal framework, deepening existing solutions with modern trends and needs. I'd end up here with this middle education, with the law on secondary education, and I'd kind of look back at today's potential to buy these six planes, MIG 29 MM2. In 2013, it was the 100th anniversary of the first death of Mihajl Petrovic, the first Serbian airman and the start of aviation in Serbia. It is also 12 years old, or 12.9.2011, in the East River in Manhattan, if you remember, those two twin buildings were torn down. Why am I comparing these two events? There's been a whole series of years between these two periods. Technical technological and professional skills included Serbia in the order of the most developed countries in terms of development and piloting techniques in the world. Between the two world wars, Serbia produced state-of-the-art planes. Air Force pilots flew for a long time and were the foundations of both JAT pilots and pilots around the world. By neglecting this technical technological development now, great damage has been done. Only six planes provide a thin thread to extend that training and technical achievement on which this country has rested over the past hundred years. Buying these six planes would make two things happen. In training and training, a certain level would be achieved with certain technical achievements, where we would be able to export knowledge at a certain time interval. Secondly, much more important and much more important, against the country's air defence, we would be in a position, and our country was in a position to leave it to another country to protect the airspace above Serbia, which we are now going to do above certain states in our environment. That kind of vision also has its financial support, which will contribute to this country's practical ability to pay for these loans that we raise for these planes. In the end, I would like to say that the PUPS parliamentary group will vote for this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18217	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18218	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a need to present my vision of amendments and the addition of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. The education system is a key component of every modern state that thinks about its future. Quality and accessible education is a guarantee of success and development and evidence of serious intention to allow generations to come as high-quality starting grounds for successful life and work as possible. In this respect, the proposed law makes a step forward to improve the existing provisions of the 2003 Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, in the direction of harmonising existing solutions with the solutions contained in the Education Reform Strategy and the newly proposed laws governing primary and secondary education, as well as adult education. The first paper proposed for amendments and additions concerns the more precise definition of the general principles of education and education systems, as well as the objectives and general outcomes of the educational process, with a reduction in the rate of depletion of populations, socially marginalised groups and persons from socially sensitive categories and areas. Another important newspaper concerns the qualification and expertise of the teaching staff, where for the first time the teacher or expert associate must have the knowledge of psychology, pedagogy, teaching methods, which has not always been the case. At the same time, there is an obligation of higher education institutions where future teachers are educated to teach in their accredited study programmes from those scientific disciplines. With that in mind, the proposed provisions as a newspaper are introduced and so-called The school gym, as a kind of relationship between higher education institutions, where the classrooms and schools themselves will work and teach in the next day. This is how a double goal is achieved – it allows higher education institutions through the necessary professional practice that students would perform during their studies, while allowing students themselves to get acquainted with the teaching process, to work with children, and to prepare themselves to be involved in the process of working in education immediately after completing their studies. The third important change introduced by the law is the change of school networks, especially the network of secondary schools, in order to implement the provisions of the education development strategy. The new circumstances indicate that it is necessary to change the ratio of secondary schools and high school by increasing the number of high schools and reducing the number of secondary vocational schools. Such a solution would also stimulate a number of students to study at universities and high schools after the completion of the secondary cycle of education. At the same time, the number of existing secondary schools would be brought into line with the needs of the economy, which is the necessity that exists and has been indicated for many years. Also, the new provisions provided for precise provisions to regulate the so-called so-called. an individual educational plan for persons or children who need special attention in the educational process. The process and way of drawing up an individual educational plan has been defined, and thus concreteisation of the right to an individual educational plan is achieved for all persons who need the same. The proposed provisions also specify the conditions for selecting teachers who teach abroad. Also, there was the possibility of later enrolment in primary school for children who were enrolled at the age of their enrolment, if there are relevant reasons, i.e. First of all, if the child's interest requires it. The law extends the cycle of disciplinary responsibility and directors of institutions and students, respecting recommendations and experience in practice. The law also regulates issues of conditions and procedures for the recruitment of teachers and associates. It is an obligation that all persons employed in an educational institution must know the language in which teaching is performed, without exception. In this way, all persons are obliged to prove in the process of establishing a working relationship that they know the language in which the teaching is performed, regardless of whether it is majority Serbian or minority languages. A procedure has also been established to determine the adequateness of qualifications acquired in the former SFRY countries and in the military education system, thus creating a legal possibility for those persons in the employment process as well. Also, the law introduces a provision that has so far been contained by a special collective contract in primary and secondary education, and as regards the recruitment process, where the employment competition can only be opened in the event that there is no unscheduled teacher and associate in another institution, but also returns the provision contained by the earlier law that the teacher and associate ceases working relations when he is 40 years of employment or 65 years of life and 15 years of employment. The proposed law as a roof, i.e. systemically, is an introduction to essential reforms that contain proposals for basic and secondary school laws, as well as adult education, and therefore, in order to comply with their provisions, it is necessary to make appropriate changes and additions. Based on all this, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day, but also a set of other laws that we have discussed here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18219	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic has a word. The remaining time for the SNS parliamentary group is 17 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning to say that I will support the thesis of one of my opposition colleagues who said he was an educational reform and even reforms were stopped after the murder of Zoran Djindjic and the arrival of the new government. Let me remind you, it was the government of Zoran Zivkovic, and I agree with that, and I don't know why they hate him so much. I'm looking at this thing about education from another angle. He's got an old Chinese proverb. When you give a man a fish, you feed it in one day. When you teach him how to fish, you feed him for life. So, education is an important segment and of course that angle of my view was respected when I went to school. Someone threw it to me, most likely, that they doubt my education. For 12 years, I was a student on foot, every day I walked six miles, and it didn't hurt me. In this hiking, you learn a lot when you go to school, no matter how far the school is. So, if you're not lazy, you can go over to the house and check yourself out nicely. I have to remind myself that all our greats, of course I don't get myself into it, born in the country, and I'm particularly worried about it, even though I'm going to support these laws. So, to take from Tesla, Pupin, if we take Blackie, if we take Shantic, if we take these people, we'll see that they're all born in the country and start schooling in the country. When I was in school, they taught us how to fish, and there were fish. We trained metals, locksmiths, scrapers, rodents, machine technicians, and all of them after school, like me, had a chance and a chance to get a job in the economy, to buy a car on a loan that was fine, to be proud of their parents, to hire them in these factories where they worked, to get them to take a job after them or at the same time, to share the same work bread, to earn money, to improve their family, to earn an apartment, to have a solid car, that they could at least go on vacation once every two years, so that they could go on vacation, to winter. Of course I will support this law, but the situation in the country that has been found does not guarantee that through education, regardless of good intentions, we will be able to improve the youth, or that after school we will be able to recruit them. If we train them to be scrapers, rodents without rodents, to be factoryless workers, we didn't do anything big. Today we're teaching furry, textiles without the textile industry. We train furskins, and we forbid, believe it or not, that is, the government before us banned the breeding of furskins, from the nicks, the nutrium, from chinchillas, everything is forbidden to grow for the production of fur. I wonder, then, why do we need furriers? So after this first thing we're going to do, we're going to look for changes and additions to that law, that the animals that are grown to produce fur, not in nature, they should be protected, they can be used in the furry industry, otherwise that profession doesn't make any sense. Since I live in the country, I have to say that the available school so far has been harder and harder. So it's been really hard being a working kid, working student lately, and going to college. It is slowly, because of empty villages, passed on to high school, and I'm afraid it will also be transferred to elementary schools, regardless of the out-of-the-way departments. There will be students in the village, students who will have to walk or travel more than 20, 30 kilometers, in order to have basic education available. Since I am also the president of the People's Peasants' Party, I must point out that earlier teachers, teachers and students from the village just produced those giants I was talking about. I also think that private schools for the village are certainly not a solution, private schools in Belgrade that attend particularly gifted children of former ministers, where a minister who has a salary of 15,000 euros a year, with all benefits, schools two children and pays a scholarship of 30,000 euros and builds a beautiful building on pasture in downtown Belgrade. So there's no such gifted children in the country. I certainly support the idea that such a kind of private school exists, but that they are financed in a transparent way, and not like so far, that the official, former minister, whose salary is 1000 euros, is set aside for schooling children 2,500 euros a month, and that it seems so unquestionably to no one and no one else appears to be troubled, and, by the way, the man builds a building worth several hundred thousand euros. As thrifty as I can be, it's very strange to me. No matter what schools they are for especially smart and gifted children, I fear that these private schools will serve former ministers, former officials who will educate their children, and peasants and workers will not benefit from it. Why am I talking about peasants and workers? Except for the educational and educational roles in school, parents must also be involved in education and education, because school education alone does not produce results. I ask you how in an unconventional situation, no matter how funny it is for the opposition, in a deserted country, where there are smokes of two factory chimneys, how to raise children to listen to teachers, to educate, to tell them that schooling is worth it, what they told us, that they will get a job, when they themselves are humiliated, without dignity, without honor, without work, when their children simply say – what do you have from being educated, what were you a good student, etc? So, apart from goodwill and these laws, we have to roll our sleeves, not our hands. It's got to be an economy where the scavengers will stand by the stream, rodents for rodents, in which locksmiths and welders will work locks, in which the textiles will work in the textile industry, in which the merchants will work in the shops and will not be mostly Chinese merchants who trade Chinese goods. I think it's time to get the students back to the factory after school to work and be proud of their parents and be their children's pride, that after they've stayed in the factory, they can, as our parents have hired us, hire us to be the future generation. When we did, we taught them how to fish. Besides teaching them how to fish, you feed them for life and the water they fish in, and in this country we have to create an economic system that will be proud of all of us, especially those who are going to be educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18221	Mr. Milivojevic, I have you registered in the system. Are you looking for a replica? Did you mention that? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Yes, to part of the exhibition, and I can do it by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18222	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the sake of being quoted as part of my presentation from my speech. So, I said the first task of the new government after the murder of Zoran Djindjic, but after the 2003 elections was to suspend education reform. So, it wasn't Zoran Zivkovic, it was the new government after the 2003 elections. That's what I say to the pure truth for, without getting into the essence of what anyone else has said and without turning this debate into some pointless controversy with my colleagues and harassing all the MPs and citizens who are watching this. The truth is, it's about the new government after the 2003 elections. The government, after the 2003 elections, which took place in December, was not headed by Zoran Zivkovic, but by Vojislav Kostunica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18223	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18224	Your Honor, Mr. President, the representatives of the Ministry of Education, since there are currently no ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues from the PUPS Parliament Club have already spoken of some laws, and I will talk about the Law on Fundamental Education. Basic education is the first key step in the life of each child, opening up a world of knowledge, learning, and education. Therefore, quality basic education is a prerequisite for later forming quality experts and people capable of living on their own and including in the wider community. The draft law in front of this assembly represents a step in this direction, respecting and including in itself all strategic objectives designed in the Education Development Strategy by 2020. It also changes and in modern spirit regulates an area that has so far been governed by the Law that was passed 20 years ago and that, in addition to all the changes and additions that have been intervened so far, no longer corresponds to the needs of this extremely important and dynamic area of social life. A law proposing in a comprehensive manner and very precisely defining the objectives and desired outcomes of the basic cycle of education in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the education and education system, regulates that basic education is a work of general interest which is being achieved as a public service. The right of every person to free elementary education in public school is established, as is the obligation for parents to enroll their children in primary school and their responsibility for violating that obligation. The paper introduced for the first time by this law is the typeology of the institution of primary education, i.e. to divide them into national and foreign schools, along with the already present division into public and private, where they take teaching programs and founders as distribution criteria. The right of parents to choose between public and private schools is also introduced, not touching their obligation to enroll their children in primary school. Also, the important paper introduced by the law is the creation of a school programme as a comprehensive document that the school adopts with the law for a certain period, on the basis of which the development plan is implemented and the overall educational work in the school, which includes the objectives of the school programme, the teaching plan under which the school works, the compulsory and electoral courses by classes, the supplementary and additional classes programmes, the school's cultural activities programmes, the school sport programme, the programme of protection against violence, abuse and neglect and other forms of risky behaviour, the health care programme, the social protection programme, the environmental protection programme, the co-operation programme with the local community, the programme of co-operation with the family, the excursion programme, excursions and courses in nature and other forms of educational work. Then there are precisely defined ways of developing sectoral programmes that make up the school programme. In a more advanced way it is comprehensively defined the process of developing the overall educational work programme, which will allow better quality work for teaching staff, as well as giving parents the opportunity to get acquainted in time with all the activities their children will take in the basic cycle of education, and they will also take more part in the same. The paper introduced for the first time by the law into our education system is learning at home and at a distance, with a clear obligation and responsibility of parents or guardians to achieve the planned outcomes and objectives of such learning and checking knowledge through exams at the end of the year. This will enable the inclusion of children who, due to health or other problems, are unable to attend regular school courses in the educational process to the extent that the current material and personal conditions in educational institutions allow, but which certainly represents a step in the right direction. The new law provides for the provisions of the so-called Law. individual plans, establishing this right for students with special needs and extremely talented students. In this way, the educational process introduces a kind of flexibility to the extent that special development needs of children with health or other problems are to be accompanied, as well as talented children who need to be supported in the faster mastering of school programmes. As one of the key newspapers, the law introduces a final exam for final students, i.e. eighth grade primary school. The final exam aims to serve as a sort of test for students themselves, but also for the school itself and the educational system in general. In the first case of the final exam, the overall success of the students is checked. the achievement of the basic education objectives in the individual case, while in the other two cases there is a kind of evaluation of educational educational work at school and the quality of the education system in general. The results of the final exams should serve as an indicator of the quality of primary education and possible corrective action in the evaluation process. In this regard, the law also provides for the quality of school work to be carried out in two ways, such as self-valuation and external evaluation, and introduces the possibility of mutual evaluation in accordance with the international agreements which our country has concluded in the future. Thus, the law is a step forward in the process of improving the quality of primary education in our country, setting a modern normative framework for its functioning and continuous development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18225	Thank you. The People's MP Kovacevic is not here. Would you like to do that, since you had the right to a replacement? You've got three and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18226	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Government, I would like to dedicate my presentation to one of the laws of this package, which has little to do with the debate, although I believe that it has great importance for our society and it is the proposal for a law on adult education. Unfortunately, it is widely known that our country has always been at the very top of the list of European countries as a percentage of both illiterate and those citizens who have only completed primary school. This situation was influenced by a number of negative historical circumstances that showed resistance even to some state-of-the-art methods, which were used after World War II in order to describe the population and about which there is no need to spend too much talk here, because the situation is what it is. If only numbers are viewed as mere facts, we could conclude that a general picture of education in Serbia is very improved. Thus, the number of illiterate in Serbia between the two last lists was almost halved and decreased from 3.45% to 1.96%. The number of people who are schoolless or have only primary education has also been reduced from 45% to 35%, while the number of those with secondary, higher and higher education has increased significantly. However, if we look just a little bit at our daily life in which we have photographs of illiteracy and various inscriptions, which the newspaper publishes in the humorist section, with the fact that we still do not have 100% coverage of children, compulsory primary education, especially among Roma children, with the fact that a significant percentage of completed founders do not continue their education and that there are cases that come functionally in high school and in some cases, and in fact illiterate children, then we have to ask ourselves how many positive trends are actually the result of the functioning of our system of education, and how many of the demographic shifts of the population and the gradual reduction of the number of oldest generations and population in the country, and it is known that these two categories have generally preceded the percentage of the illiterate population and the population without completing primary schooling school. It is not necessary to mention how inadequate this educational structure is, and represents a brake in economic processes in the total number of our society. Therefore, the adoption of such a law, which for the first time in one place systemises the rules in the field of adult education, is imposed as an emergency. It also envisions an education development strategy in Serbia by 2020. The law provides for adult education to be achieved as a formal education, based on primary and secondary school curricula, informal education based on specific programmes to acquire knowledge and information learning as a process of independent knowledge acquisition. Of course, the adult education system will continue to play the most important role of primary and secondary schools, but many other entities such as public institutions, agencies are also mentioned as activity organizers. National employment services, employers' associations, various training centres, etc. They will all have to be registered with the Ministry of Education to submit plans and programmes of education activities. In formal education, it is foreseen to be achieved for primary school in cycles of three to five years. In view of our situation, it may also be possible to consider cutting these deadlines, intensifying those cycles. Of course, at the heart of the quality of education provided in order to enable candidates who successfully complete their primary school under these programmes to get involved as quickly as possible in their work activities as possible because it is to assume that one who wants to raise the level of his education in such a thorough way probably wants to do what we need today. I'd just like two more, three sentences. Support for teaching education providers should be provided by a long-term assistant and by schools. Funding the adult education system will mostly go from a republican budget to providing funding for basic education, while at the level of territorial autonomy and local self-government, education programmes that would bring these lower levels of government. I would refer only to another segment of education mentioned in this law. This is very important for us pensioners, please, but I don't think it points out its importance, which is computer and IT activity. We members of a few older generations who grew up to be the largest part of our work and lives in the second half of the 20th century have witnessed the great development of science and technology that has been faster and more than ever become a part of human everyday life without which modern life can hardly be imagined. We have seen how widespread the cycle of necessary knowledge needs to be acquired only in primary school. Today, there are virtually no jobs for which, besides professional qualifications, no knowledge of computer work is required. I'm getting this home ready to introduce computers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18227	I fully understand and support all of you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18228	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the respected ministers, the respected co-workers of Mr. Minister, a few things are extremely important to point out, although this is the time, but simply, it is my obligation, which I have made before the national community I belong to, to speak about the Roma National Community, to acknowledge as responsible members of this country that Serbia has made major shifts back several years, just when it comes to the education of the Roma National Community and that today we have 175 pedagogical assistants, who work mainly with members of the Roma National Community, is a fact that in an unequivocally speaking way, this issue is really a very big consideration. Of course we have an environment like Novi Sad, where a teaching assistant is somewhere around 200 students of this national community, but we have to accept it as reality and accept the fact that both the Ministry and the state plan to solve it in a better and quality way in the future and that it is certainly one and the best possible message. Do I want to point out that in Article 44. The law on secondary education is an unequivocally highlighted role of the school in resolving social issues of vulnerable and vulnerable categories, and in this respect to all those, especially those from civil society who have often criticised certain things in our education, we send a clear message that this member is a chance that together with schools, together with local environments, they take responsibility and that, with the use of this member, they actually create conditions that socially vulnerable categories, or vulnerable categories, have all the conditions that they can normally continue schooling. Also, I want the Honorable Minister to invite him to accept an idea. It is the idea of the Roma Interparliamentary Organisation to launch a project in the region, when I talk about the region, I am talking about Macedonia, Serbia, Hungary and other neighbouring countries, to provide computers through the regional IPO. We're talking about socially endangered categories and the capacity that we can help, and that's about the Roma. However, in any case, when one computer comes to one school, it bears no student, no national community, but it can be used by all children. The bill is very simple. If we're talking 1,000 computers, they're not more than 300,000 euros. If we talk about several countries in the environment, then together with a few million euros, we can supply the entire region with computers and that can be our contribution, because regional IPA, unfortunately, is not being used. Large funds from regional IPE are returning to funds because there are no quality projects. In this direction we are at our disposal and we ask you to accept this idea just as you have accepted the idea of forming a European Academy of Young Leaders, which will create conditions for Serbia to export knowledge, to educate people in Serbia from other countries, and thus Serbia is positioned through vulnerable groups as the European Centre for the Education of vulnerable groups. Just two sentences at the end. What the Roma Party insists on, what is certainly part of our common policy with the SNS, and which is why I am part of that parliamentary group is that every parent, every family, is forced to be held accountable, uncompromisingly, that their children must be sent to school, must be included in the process of education, and there you have the support of the Roma political party, which is the only one in parliament, that uncompromisingly with every parent, the one who does not send their child to school, that if we should and tighten the penalties, because that is the key to the integration process. Unless we give the state, as representatives of this community, support in this process, then we don't think well of the state, we don't think well of those children, we don't think of the future of the entire people and the future of the Roma national community. There is a great responsibility for both of us and yours together, so that in this direction we can really take a decisive step both in this way and in that way put these children in an equal position with everyone else. As far as the student parliament is concerned, I will talk a little bit more about it when it comes to amendments, we need to create such conditions for the co-operation of students in student parliaments with local self-government, that they already feel at that age that parts of the state, that local self-government as someone who solves their essential issues are important to life, achieve co-operation with them, make certain contacts and that they are not the address for co-operation with the student parliament only certain segments of the school in which they are located, but to take another step forward in that and to teach children at that age how they can co-operate with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18229	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single principled search, I ask if the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18230	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, allow me, at the end of this day, to thank, above all, all of you who have stayed until the end of this session and I want to make one impression, I think that the Parliament's decision to hold a debate on the points of the agenda for a double period of time compared to the intended time is a good thing because each member of Parliament used that right or almost every one. Everyone has had the opportunity to say what they think about our education system, what they think is good, what are bad sides and, of course, how the problem should be solved. So that I don't owe, the most talk about education laws is, so I'm just going to say a few sentences about it. Why do I say a few sentences? Because in particular, we're going to talk about all these details, but just so you know, which population these laws apply to. In the education system of the Republic of Serbia, because they are the most important, at the level of primary and secondary education we have 876. 222 students who are divided into 42,666 departments. There are 106,113 employees, of which 76,258 are teachers, teachers, and 27,346 is extracurricular staff. At the level of primary education, the number of teachers and teachers is 50,286, and non-school staff is 25,969, so the ratio is almost 2:1, and at the level of secondary education the teacher has 19,852 or non-school staff 7.494, i.e. approximately 1:2,8. Why do I mention all this information to you? Not wanting to dig through the past at all, I can't help but agree with most of the debaters who mentioned that the characteristic of the education system is that the education system can't change overnight and that no matter how great some ideas are, that they should be absolutely seen and that each side should make the right decision because that decision is tangled by a huge number of users of the education system. If we went back again, it could easily be possible for anyone in our political past to draw some conclusion about responsibility for the situation in the education system, but it is not just about responsibility, but about what was done during some period of time to improve the education system. I think a little of the speakers were negative. Most of them said absolutely positive. Even those who were party to the opposition had to say, of course in their own way, but they mentioned many positive things that were laid out in these laws. I don't want to talk about all of them, but I can't say that these laws improve the education system, increase training, promotes quality, promotes justice, increase efficiency, increase availability, address observed problems, monitor trends in education, improves inclusion, introduces exercises, issue of major graduation, learning at a distance, restores educational role in school, prepares for final exams, school gyms are introduced, career management takes place, parents' active role in importance, active fight against violence, organized religious teaching. I'm talking about those things the speakers mentioned today during the debate. Not to mention the importance of the education law, which is first brought to us. Someone asked me this morning what we did or what I did. I'm not going to say that I am, but our team has prepared a bill for these years on which the Assembly has been discussing today, and we can say with one satisfaction that we have passed three laws, two new ones, but which had the basis of laws that were passed in 1992 and a whole new law on adult education. And then there's the fourth shift. If we also see the laws adopted in the previous period, plus the Education Strategy, we are pleased to say that we have a normative framework for the education system in the Republic of Serbia because this normative framework, as much as it could be criticised by any individual, is better than not a regulated system and chaos in the system. I think that many of the problems we are facing are actually the result that many things in our close past begin without possibly a final vision of what will be the result of these innovations. I won't doubt my last intentions at all. I'm not saying it meant something bad, on the contrary. I want to believe that everything was sincere and with the best of intentions, but we have the consequence that a large number of election cases have been introduced. There are a large number of electoral items since 2000 that have caused almost a third of the teaching staff to have a smaller fund of lessons and when you have such a situation effectively in the education system, then it is logical that any question that tang people are experiencing in one special way, because they are all afraid that they will have a full fund of lessons when the new school year comes and demographics take their own, because the reduction of the population in the education system has a price. Nearly 7,000 children this September 1st will be less at first grade high school, about 1,500 at the first grade of primary school. Seven thousand students have less effect on the 228 departments. When you take these students at first grade level, you draw your own conclusion. If you divide by number 25 or number 30, anyway, the number of the department is smaller. Put those figures in the context of the current situation, and draw a certain conclusion yourself. We at the Ministry are trying not only to maintain the system, but to make it better. I absolutely believe we're doing this with all the problems we're facing. Someone asked me about the money today. When I became a minister, the budget was a billion and 350m euros, if memory serves me well. The same relationship in the structure of the budget was maintained, but inflation took its toll and is now a billion and 132m euros. Draw your own conclusion on what it means for the education system both for employees and for the possibility of investing in schools. I wish that after 2000, as a law has been passed that has established the obligation to privatise 5% to protect the environment, we have decided that 5% is allocated to investment in the education system. Then we wouldn't be faced with those numbers we heard today, that 90% of schools are over ten years old. They would talk differently about the conditions in which teaching takes place, because without conditions, laws, as good as you are, if you don't have the right conditions, if you don't have the equipment, especially if you don't have the desire or the energy or if you're not satisfied, there's no result, because only students and teachers know what's going on in that magic box called the classroom and how the system is going on here. Do students like to go to school? Yeah. All the research says he likes about 90%, but there's been a problem later. I mentioned research. In the first cycle, children are great, at the level of their peers from Japan, but in the second cycle, when they move to class, then things are happening that we need to explore and take appropriate measures to do so. Are teachers motivated? Probably not with a salary like this, but it's also a matter of personal relationships to work and the question of how you do your job, because you have all kinds of situations in our education system, and that's avoided as a topic, because then you can figure out what's as the final outcome. I've heard a lot of questions about things that are part of our system. I have to tell you, we're really trying to do a lot of innovation. Demography and money are a big problem for us. I'm telling you very honestly, it is a problem. Inclusion? Inclusion isn't the problem. We applied that four years ago. These solutions we have now proposed, this question of potential or what kind of formulation is in exceptional cases the possibility of someone not going to first class is due to the application of the Law in the past four years and the fact that they have children who, despite their best wishes and parents and in the opinion of the Interresor Commission, are not able to attend the first class. As for the other objections, this morning the president of the National Assembly was led by the Committee on the Rights of the Child. He could have heard it himself, and I want to tell you that most of the things we've heard today have been accepted and we'll accept through the amendments. Not to mention that we have incorporated a huge part of the things that have already been presented to us into the content of the law. So we've done a lot of things and we have no intention of putting an end to it. On the contrary, the comma and then we move on. Minority members. We have the Law on the Councils of National Minorities and everything contained in the Councils of Minorities will be contained in this law. There's no reason to change anything there. Student loans. He explained it well. The prince, so I wouldn't say it again. I just want to tell you that 14,021 students receive a scholarship of 6,100, that 14,150 students receive student credit. Someone asked what they were getting for it. She's getting more money than she's paying for accommodation and food in her dorm room, and they're on the level of the high-class hotel B. Whoever doesn't, go to one of the student centers, the student cafeteria, the dormitory, and they'll see what the service level is. We envy students from other countries when they see what student institutions, homes and centres of nutrition, accommodations and resorts are like in Serbia. We do all this with this humble budget. Someone also mentioned the question of education abroad for children. And that's settled, too. Right, public competition, etc. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have tried these laws, and here I will finish, to improve the system and open the door to solve the problem we face. I mentioned the census data. We now have 11% of the population with incomplete primary education, 20% of the population with primary education. You have to know that the largest number of these categories is that people are over 55 years old. In the first case, it's about 60%, and in the second case, over 70% of people. Then they stay as a category, of course they need to reduce both of them and the Law on adult education absolutely gives them the opportunity to get these people to get that education and end up level and get through informal education, and, of course, the learning system to get a degree that will help them in their work. We will discuss individual solutions through discussion in particular. My colleagues and I are ready to accept any good amendment that will improve the quality of the text and that will help solve, let me say, any open problem in the education system. Since the issue of the Brussels Agreement and Education has been mentioned today, I would like to thank my colleagues from the University of Kosovo Mitrovica, or Pristina, with the temporary headquarters of Kosovo Mitrovica for understanding what we are doing. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia has set a quota for enrolment in the first year of the study this year. It is the best answer to the question of the state's attitude towards the university, because when students are enrolled it is in itself a solution to the issue of the university's functioning. As far as other education matters are concerned, they are neither the subject of the Brussels Agreement nor of this framework agreement, but as it is called, for implementation. I said when I was visiting Kosovo Mitrovica that if others do not question the status of that university, then neither should we. It also applies to primary and secondary education. Unless we as a society reach a consensus on what education means to us there will be no movement. When I say consensus, I don't mean whether a government will manage to take more or less money, but whether we all affirm education and its importance for the future development of society, because the government's attitude towards a question is not only measured by the amount of money, but also by how it is spoken, works and proposes some solutions regarding education. Many of these things we could solve if we had, I say it's not all about money but it's important because when we talk about reforming the Strategy of Things, there's a number to be done by 2020. If some things are listed in the Strategy, then it is logical to apply them. We can't do everything right now. That concerns the question of the number of students. I want you all to know, because in public, they don't want the real data out. We now have 33% of the department where there are more than 26 students. 33% of the department, 16% less than 15 students, means there are 50% departments in Serbia that have between 16 and 25 students. Of course, due to the mechanical inflow of the population into large city centers, because of demographic situation and little space, we have a situation that in larger city centers there are 33% of the departments mostly with more than 26 students. When these numbers are divided and calculated, one number is reached by approximately over 2008 in ideal proportions, and there are probably more. The question of the number of students in the department has raised this as a question, not a question of the will of the minister but a question of the inability to apply that solution now, because we don't have the money to receive new people and there's no room for teaching. And if we were to go on a variant that has up to 25, and there's no space, either we'd have to rent a new space, or we'd have to deny some kids in this enrollment cycle the possibility of being enrolled in the desired direction. I don't think any of you want to. That's why we said up to 30 at this point, and in perspective, I expect that by improving the economic situation, there'll be more money, and of course we'll also make new schools. And the other demands that are mentioned are the demands that we have to address. About that second time. I just wanted to tell you that we talked about basic, secondary education. We devoted a little time to the important Law on adult education. We will discuss in particular its importance, because it is a great resource for Serbia's future development, because it is a very simple matter. If Serbia wants to be economically stronger, it can only be achieved in two ways. To make its population educationally stronger, to have a better level of education structure and, of course, more productivity. There's no philosophy here. And I don't know which one of you colleagues mentioned tonight, we must finally put the learning issue back on the agenda. Getting knowledge by learning, not by other means. Of course in implementing all these technological innovations, respecting our tradition and values that the education system has, but also following trends that exist in educational flows both in Europe and beyond. Increase child coverage in preschool education. It's not just 70,000 preschool students, it's also the level of age below five and a half years old, because it's an extremely important coverage of these children, and the bigger the coverage of children in the years to come, the more it depends on local self-government. Of course, then the results in the education system will be better. But anyway, we'll talk about it when the law is in particular. I want to thank you to the audience. I am sorry that some MPs who asked a question today did not have, as I would say, wishes, possibilities, but I do not know what, what motive was to stay until the end to eventually hear the answers to the questions asked. Because of course, everyone experienced it in their own way. But what I can't say without saying is I'm glad the politicization was small. Which was a small amount of politicisation, which was mostly all about the importance of education. If you go into politicization, believe me, I could tell you something about what happened in the past and what was the relationship to the education system and the like. There was a famous aphorism of the government of Bulatovic Viba, it seems to me – before the war we had nothing, then the Germans came and took everything from us. That was about the presentation of most MPs. It all starts out as well from me. Before that, there's nothing wrong, or the other way around. If I'm in opposition, I'm experiencing it one way. Anyone who is in power or opposition, if education sees as a resource that is important to Serbia's future and starts to think about how to exploit what we have and respect what we invest, there will be results, because at the moment this small Serbia is funding 53% of students. For the first time in the history of the education system, we've introduced that we're funding doctoral studies, not to mention some of the other things we've done because it would get one completely different, as I would say, it could get another connotation, and I don't want it to be. Dear colleagues and colleagues thank you for your patience and I will see you when considering the law in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-12-0.u18231	According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled examination of proposals for the agenda law in paragraphs 1 to 8. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
