ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16826	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 129 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Donka Banović and Radojko Obradovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We move to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Railways. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Law on Railways in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on railways to the vote, in principle. I ask the National Assembly to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 13, the abstentions – there is no vote, no vote 18, of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that by written amendment, MPs Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić, to members of the 7th and 9th of April 2013 together; Momir Stojanović to Article 3rd point 9; Article 3. point 10; Article 14; Article 3. 35; Article 3. Adding a new point 41 after point 40; Article 3 adding a new point 42; Article 33 adding a new member to the definition of point 2 and to Article 33, adding a new member to define point 6 of Article 1, which was submitted on 8 May 2013. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Miroljub Stojić to Article 2; Stefane Miladanovic to Articles 3, 4, 46, 100 and 101; Ivane Dinić to Article 7; Zoran Kasalovic to Articles 8 and 47; Milan Lapčević to Article 9; Momira Stojanović to Article 23; Milisava Petronivic to Members 23 and 51; Nedja Jovanovic to Article 25; Zoran Andeljković to Article 26 and Section 5; Dejana Radenkovic to Articles 31, 56, 64 and 107; Olgice Batić to Article 66; Gorica Gajic to Article 87; Donke Banović to Article 87; Saša Dujović to Article 93; Donka Banović and Gorica Gajic together to Article 93; Prof. Petar Škundrić to Article 94. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Article 7. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 38 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted—162 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted—161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojisic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, abstention – one, have voted – 164 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one, have voted—162 of the total attendance of the 171 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—ten, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote—161 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, have voted—164 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 10 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – one, voted – 42 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 10th of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted— 172 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirna Kosanovic and Dr Ivan Bauer. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted – 164 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted—166 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none, abstention – one, voted – 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -4, no one, with abstentions, has voted - 171 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 166 out of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, together submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 166 out of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -3, no one, with abstentions, has voted - 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 166 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 166 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 166 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -2, no one, with abstentions, has voted - 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted, has voted - 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 46th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -8, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted - 170 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 46th amendment. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 43 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 51 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -132, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 48 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 137, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 43 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -8, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 172 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mirna Kosanovic and Ivan Bauer. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 170 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 72nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 169 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted an amendment adding a new article 92 after article 91. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 169 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic to article 92. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted, has not voted - 170 of the 181 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 92nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 170 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 94. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 137, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 45 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 104 of the amendment, MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 170 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 53 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on rail in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – 20 abstentions – there is no vote, 30 of the total of the 183 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on railways. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a PATINATE RIGHTS Law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill on patient rights in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that MP Srdjan Shain has withdrawn the amendments to the article. 2, 10, 44, 45 and 46. The draft law, as well as that of Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, has writtenly withdrawn the amendment to Article 19. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: Article 2, which have been submitted jointly by the MPs: Branislav Blažić, Ninoslav Girić, Aleksandar Radojević, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, Vesna Rakonjac, Mileta Pokurica, Milan Knezevic and Predrag Mijatović; on the 6th, which was submitted by the National MP Srdjan Šajn; on the 7th, which was submitted by the MP Vladimir Gordić; on the 9th, which was sent together by the Members of the People's Parliament of Judita Popjan Koraić, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta; on the 14th, with the correction of the people who were sent together by the National MP Vladimir Gordić; on the right of the Parliament Vladimir Gordić; on the 29th floored by the Parliament: Milica Gerjko Gerjko Gerdić and Miljko Derdić, the National Assembly of Slavić. 17, 23, 36 and 39. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Gordic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Amendment to which Article 5 is added after Article 5. 5a-5v. National MP Vladimir Gordic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 167 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 167 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Gordic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 167 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 174 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 156 of the 181 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 168 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – one, did not vote 171 of the total attendance of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 168, out of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 172 of the total attendance of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski and together by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 167 out of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 167 out of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 180, out of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 168, out of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski and joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstention – voted 174 out of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 166, out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 173, out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 168, out of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 166, out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 170, out of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165, out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 167 out of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164, out of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstention, has voted—174 of the total attendance of 181 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 170 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on patient rights in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – 12 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 11 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on patients' rights. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disabilities Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the protection of a person with mental disturbances, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, v – 12, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 16 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Nebojsje Zelenović, members 2, 11 and 15, Mirjana Dragas to members 12 and Judita Popovic, Kenana Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta on members 61 and 62 with correction. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention – for – four, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted – 176 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—173 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 160 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—171 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—171 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the 180 MPs present. I agree that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 163 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 37th Amendment with correction was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korac, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—171 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – two, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 37 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 163 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 170 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted—176 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 163 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146 against – 11 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 22 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of persons with mental disorders. We're going to go to 4. Point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the publication of the Laws and other regulations and of the Acts Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law to the publication of laws and other regulations and acts, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 28 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the amendments were drawn by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic, who together submitted to the members of the 1st and 2nd with the correction, to the title above Articles 5 and 5. 18, 19 and 30. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic to the article. Three and five. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted an amendment proposing to add a new title above members and Article 2 after article 1. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 170 of the total of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 171 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic together submitted to the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 171 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—173 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 170 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment proposing to add a new title above members and Article 24 after article 23. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – 169 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—171 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Report of the Security Control Committee in the Executive Surveillance of the 2012 Security Service. One year, with a proposal for a decision to adopt the report. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to adopt the Security Service Control Committee's report on the surveillance carried out of the 2012 Security Service's work. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – none, with abstention – did not vote 43 of the 174 MPs present I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt the Security Control Committee's report on the surveillance of the work of the Security Service for 2012. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the Employment of Members of the Family of the DIPLOMATIC-KONSULAR PRESIDENTS I place on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on the employment of members of the family of the diplomatic and consular presidency staff, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 14 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Employment of Members of the Family of the staff of the diplomatic and consular presidency I am putting the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the employment of members of the families of the staff of the diplomatic and consular presidency, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON DEFINITIONS AND THE NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES AND OF THE REGIONAL COMMISSION MEMBER STATES After the National Assembly has carried out the search, and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that according to Article 105(2) of point 15. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the National Assembly, with the majority of the votes of all MPs, holding elections of competence. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic of Election Commission. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic of Election Commission by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I put to the vote Proposal for a Decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia No 02-1403/13. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted on 14 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, No 02-1403/13. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I am putting to the vote Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. We're moving on to a decision. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 8 May 2013, in 16.40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 154 of the total of the 159 MPs present I find that the National Assembly has decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has not been injured. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 20 May 2013, in 10.25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 141 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Predrag Mijatovic, at a session on 20 May 2013, said at 13.20 minutes, he was injured by a member of 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 137 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. The fourth session continues at 12.00 hours. The session is closed at 11.35 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16827	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT 4th session of the First Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 22 May 2013 (The session began at 12.15 p.m. Vesna Kovac, vice president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 173 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Donka Banović and Radojko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly has called this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure for the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the proposed agenda as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I, in addition to the representative of the Minister of Finance Mladjan Dinkić, Minister of Finance and Industry, am invited to attend the sittings by Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry: Irina Stojanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry, Milica Bisic, Special Advisor of the Finance and Business Minister Ljiljana Petrović, Head of the Finance and Business Group of the Finance and Business Ministry; Marijan Blešić, Head of the Group for Tax Procedure and Tax Administration at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Ljiljana Petrović, Manager of the Finance and Business Group, Biljana Mirić Bogdanović, advisers in the Group for the Tax of Legal Persons in the Ministry of Finance and Taxation, Anastasija Talankovnica Završtić, Minister for Finance and Social Security, Minister for the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. I ask the People's Messengers to hear me say you're a little quiet. Thank you. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on detective activity, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 May 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 132 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the private security bill on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 May 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, the abstention – there is no, 121 of the total of 126 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, three of the total of 126 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2013, be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 119, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2013, be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 119, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of the 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on Obligation Social Security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted six, of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of Taxes on Civilian Income, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 117, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 10, of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft amending law and supplementation of the ACCIZA law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one with abstention – has voted eight of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Vladimir Ilic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes of Assets, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedures and Tax Administration, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to the Law on Contribution to Social Insurance, the Proposal for an Agreement on Amendments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the granting of a State Financial Credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Excises and the Treaty on the Single Review on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Laws of the Republic of Serbia and of Serbia in the Convention on the Conventions of the Republic of Serbia to the Convention on the Convention on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofCroatia. Does the MP Mr. Vladimir Ilic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 119, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 out of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – one abstention – there is no vote, not 18, of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n i r e d : 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of a state financial loan to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for the Water and Waste Water Management Programme in Serbia III, up to 46,000,000 euros between KfW, Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin, which was submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes submitted by the government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Who reported in to the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16829	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, was scheduled yesterday for today's session, and yesterday morning, MPs in the Serbian Parliament received material for this session. Madam Chairman, Article 27, Article 86(2) and Article 167 have been violated. Article 86(2) states that the session may also be convened within a shorter period than the deadline set out in Article 1, with the President of the National Assembly obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. It is indeed inappropriate to obtain material 24 hours before the beginning of the session, the session is scheduled, MPs are forced to prepare their discussions and amendments on such important and serious laws as concerns the citizens of the Republic of Serbia quickly. You were obliged to explain to the MPs, as well as to the public who is now watching, which are the reasons why the session is scheduled in such a short time. I've been a folk MP for a long time, and I don't remember a session ever called this way. In addition, Article 167 speaks about the urgency of the procedure. It may already be time to read this provision of the Rules of Procedure and to hear the reasons why the laws are passed by emergency procedure: "By an urgent procedure, a law can be passed that regulates issues and relations arises due to circumstances that could not be predicted. The lack of laws under emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of bodies and organisations, as well as for the harmonisation and compliance of international obligations and compliance with EU rules. ". Please explain the laws that are now on the agenda, in the area of finance, have caused adverse consequences for the safety of citizens... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... the adverse consequences of the citizens. Please give an explanation. An act like this has not been done in the National Assembly in such a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16830	Thank you. The President of the National Assembly has scheduled this session of the National Assembly in accordance with Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You could also hear the explanation of why this session was scheduled to take place as soon as possible by an emergency procedure. (Jovan Palalic: I ask that the Assembly declare this. ( ) You want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next word came from Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16831	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 97. Regardless of what you have received from the new congregation majority and the assistance of some political parties that today were not the political majority, your political violence has reached its peak today. I am reporting by article 97 asking to extend the time of the debate, to double the time of the debate, because you can't discuss in five hours the topics that are important to the citizens of Serbia, such as the fact that from tomorrow, or when you adopt this law, they will be taxed on sheds, lawns, woodsheds, pigs' houses, that tomorrow they will pay taxes and that the state will also take away their souls that they haven't taken away from them for the past year. This is a disastrous law by the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, you made six laws in 24 hours before you put them in front of the MPs. We will discuss these laws tonight, and Serbia's citizens will experience severe consequences from the coming days. I demand an extension of time, i.e. an increase in the debate twice, so that at that time, even in some way, the government, or the ministers who proposed this, could give up these harmful laws per citizen and per Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16832	I must confess, Mr. Veselinovic, that I didn't understand your reasoning for article 92. You're actually asking for an extension, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Janko Veselinovic: But that is a previous question we must plead on. ) Of course, they will vote on that proposal of yours, in any case. (Janko Veselinovic: But now.) When we leave with the session. Next up is MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16833	Thank you, Chairman. I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 27, 108 and 107. It is totally unacceptable from a democratic, political and any other angle that such a set of tax laws change without any public debate and without any possibility that MPs and the public may have insight into the consequences of these changes. This is best told by the fact that even the ruling majority itself did not have the support for this at the beginning, but it gave you the support of the SPO, without it you would not have adopted this. In motive, I don't want to go in. What I am interested in is how is it possible that the President of the Assembly whose goal is to ensure the democraticity of the lawmaking process, whose basic principle is to be acquainted not only with the text but also with the consequences, with the ways in which something is changing, with an analysis of why and how, at least one day before the debate on laws doesn't provide it? We haven't had a day this time. Today we warn you that however this ends today, and I believe that you will provide the majority with political violence, but the consequences of what you are doing today show or mean that you have crossed a fine line between political rationalism and populism, and the consequences cannot be different, but the continuation of the catastrophic economic policy that you are now talking about, especially the Ministry of Finance in reports published last week for the first quarter of this year. So, I ask you to influence the government's representatives to withdraw this proposal, to get a normal time of weeks, two or three, and to get to know both the professional and general public about what the intentions of this, what the consequences are, and that MPs can make themselves known in a valid manner about these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16834	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, all these laws that were in front of you today have been on the Ministry of Finance site for a long time. So, we've all had our chance to get to know them. Also, talks were held with businessmen and with the Fiscal Council. Do you want us to make a statement in the Voting Day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Okay. Next, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16835	I have the happiness or pleasure, however you wish, to be in this congregation the longest. (President: To honor the Rules of Procedure, please tell me which member are you advertising? ) Article 27, Law on the National Assembly, Article 40, 41, Constitution, whatever you want me to quote. The problem is that you are going in the opposite direction from the democratic reforms that are necessary in society. The first reform is Parliament's independence against the government. A 50-year-old tyrant, an experience in which parliament was only a flow water heater for government decisions, you continue. Citizens need to know that there are no more important things than tax policy, property law, which concerns every citizen. You want it in the dark, you want to get your improvisations and you humiliate parliament so it can't even read the previous bill that needs to be voted on. Then how do you think you rule, that's what I'm interested in? The responsibility is enormous in the presidency of this assembly, the president who is not here today, but you are here to swallow this fire. In England in the 19th century, there were similar attempts, so parliament passed the Law on the Protection of Peoples from the Government. The time has come for such a law to be made here, to protect the people from the government. Parliament chooses the government. [[Applause]] She's supposed to suit him. We've been here to witness that ministers are about to slap MPs. So the question is, are we as a congregation in general going to defend our dignity, are the citizens looking at us, we're going to vote these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16836	Thank you, Mr. Micunović. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16837	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer to the quorum's giving... This is a replica of Ivan Andric's exposure. (President: Mr. Jugovic, you do not have the right to replica in this part of the session. ) A colleague from the LDP who mentioned the SP-DHSS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16838	You have no right to a replica. He has the word Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16839	I apologize to my colleagues from the DS, you've injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in the most harsh way possible, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly with this cynical explanation that the texts of the bill were on the website of the Ministry of Finance. Professor Micunovic had already talked about it, parliamentary democracy was created on the principle of "no taxation without representation", so there is no taxation without the participation of the people's representation. Is it now up to seven million Serbian citizens to go to the finance ministry site or come to the URS meeting at the Sava Centre on Sunday to get acquainted with the country's tax policy? Well, you didn't get a chance to boast in October last year that you had a budget proposal on the site and in parliament for a month. That's where you lied about a billion euros in deficits. Now you're giving us an explanation that you're from the Ministry of Finance's website and we're getting acquainted with the amendments to the tax laws. We thought this wasn't up to you, that it wasn't your fault, that it was the President's fault, but obviously we were wrong. I admit, I'm in no condition to study these laws from one site or another. I'm not Nebojsa Stefanovic, he may be able to finish college for so long, I don't know, I need more time. Speaking of sites, some other norms and Rules of Procedure and the laws of this country have been violated. How do you consider these laws today without the opinion of the Fiscal Council? You want to crush everything. You have three new MPs for the quorum, so it doesn't matter the fiscal council anymore. What won't matter next time? It won't be an important National Bank, the IMF, the Russians, the Americans, whatever it takes. I'm asking you what's going to happen on July 1st, then on the site to announce that on January 1st, 2014 you haven't broken the deficit. There's a lot of stuff on the sites, there's a thousand-euro stock, there's a lot of stuff. It became a substitute for that tarab, sites of state institutions in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16840	I'm sorry, Mr. Djuric, for seeing cynicism in my presentation. I really had no intention of being cynical, but there was only talk of whether a public debate was held, or not a public debate was held. So it was available to the public, they talked about it. Would you like us to come forward on voter day? We'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next, he answered the word Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16841	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an unacceptable explanation that you are having this session scheduled for tomorrow. It is also unacceptable how you organise a debate in parliament on a set of tax laws after which nothing will be the same. (President: Mr. Nikolic, haven't I heard which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured? ) Art. 86th and 87th. The Prime Minister's sitting in the evening. In a magical way, at 12 p.m., a set of tax laws arrives in the congregation procedure. How long has it been? How long do MPs have to prepare for a set of tax laws that will kidnap 26 billion dinars for citizens across Serbia, from Vranja to Sudotica, from Kladovica to Ivanjica? What's the message to local self-governments to bring budgets along with their notes? Yes, we will open a new kindergarten if the finance minister in the middle of the financial year does not take away the funds provided by law. Yes, we will also help socially endangered pensioners and pregnant women and maternity families, if the finance minister in the middle of the tax year does not take away the funds we are legally guaranteed. The only logical explanation is that you are also aware that there is no amendment that can protect citizens from this kind of finance ministry and from such a set of tax laws. What is the measure of humiliating citizens and disrespecting the MPs we must endure to correct the error of poor planning, the populist planning of the budget of such a finance ministry. If this is the measure, the price is high and will be paid by all citizens. Gentlemen, it is now an opportunity for all MPs who are citizens' protectors in parliament to protect citizens and not vote for such a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16842	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16843	Madam Vice President, Article 27. Rules of Procedure. You know what, I wouldn't give too much time here to the U.R.S. or Young Dinkic. I am interested, as head of the parliamentary group, prime minister and first vice president of the government. He who has a nightmare when he thinks about the Serbian economy, and confesses to it in interviews, is not here in the Assembly. It will be difficult to continue this session today, Madam Vice President, in a normal manner, unless you realize that you can no longer behave the way many before you have acted. This isn't the first session to be called by someone in the government. But believe me, it's the last one. You can't come in front of us like that. Five months ago, we told you that the budget was bad, not because someone wanted it that way, but because it wasn't the job of a party. Our country's falling apart. Projected budget deficit in a year 120 billion, in four months we reached 80. We're introducing taxes, new ones, different ones, nobody knows anything about it. You tell us – read on the website. Well, get out in front of those people who have to pay for it in a month, the ones you're shutting down the power. Fifteen thousand people lost power in May, and the energy minister imports electricity, pays 55 euros to export it at 30. Well, don't arrest everyone in this country so they don't know. Could not close temporary folder: %s Bring in the President of Parliament. Have we talked about this somewhere? It's not anywhere. Don't make this more of a mess than the one that's already been made. We want to talk about it the normal way. If something needs to be done, let it be done the way the government wants with the parliamentary majority, but order must exist. There's no elemental order here. (President: Time. The act has come to an end. It won't be any of this session. I guess you get that. You have 60 people here who won't let that happen. The consultations of the heads of parliament, the order in parliament, the seriousness that is necessary. Enough with the humiliation and dictatorship you've established. Let me remind you, dictatorship is a system in which everything is subject to the will of one man.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16844	Thank you. National MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16845	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 72. The committee meeting shall include the day, time and place of session and a draft agenda. In exceptional cases, you can call a session early. But in what way? Yesterday at 2:00 p.m., so at 2:00 p.m., a call came to members of the Finance Committee with this agenda. The session is scheduled for tomorrow morning at half past nine. How do you think the MPs from various parts of Serbia arrive at that session while they arrive to read these laws that you have proposed? These are important laws. I'm asking you, Mrs. Kovac, you're the chairman of the Finance Committee, where's the budget rebalance with these laws? You've got a change in income, expenditure, where's budget rebalance? Stop breaking the law, stop breaking the Constitution. Interrupt this session to carry out consultations, to return to the normal functioning of parliament and this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16846	The next registered speaker is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16847	Therefore, Article 87 and Article 107. I think this once again confirmed the brutal, barbaric violation of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Something like this didn't happen. A lot of old MPs here don't remember this behavior. You simply schedule a session that, according to the Rules of Procedure, lasts from 10.00 to 1800 hours. It's 13.00, we haven't started the session yet. So do you think it's normal and that anyone here can do the right thing, professionally discuss the set of tax laws and get into the night so the people don't see what this government is preparing for us? The government is preparing to rob Serbian citizens. That's what you need to say openly. We of the Democratic Party, and we are pleased with the opposition, even though some have left the opposition today, will not allow it. We ask you to consult the heads of Parliament to postpone this session because you have brought the Assembly into an abnormal state. We will not allow you to humiliate the citizens of Serbia and their representatives. We won't let you lie to them and kidnap 300 million euros. We will not allow this situation, the impoverished citizens of Serbia, to be put before a final act and a new taxation because our economy's experimentators do not know where to find the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16848	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16849	On the basis of Article 103, Article 1(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I'm advertising a violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure, i.e. I suggest that there has been a serious violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the procedure of advertising the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Here they are spoken or fired bravely, as from the cannon, words like barbarism, occupation of the National Assembly by the government, as well as the need for the law to defend the people from the government, without having responded. In itself, it is terrible, but it is terrifying that it comes from the ranks of DS MPs, and about their one-party occupation of the general public and the life of Serbia, I will list only one living memory. At that time, the government really humiliated the assembly majority and the entire parliament, and the President of the Republic carried out a coup by giving himself the authority of the country's overall authority outside the Constitution and the law. When the parliamentary party Together for the Forest, which is the founder of the URS, left parliament for that reason, all the media in Serbia announced that we did it because of conflicts of interest and incompatibility of functions. Because this government wants concrete questions and life problems that are huge to provide concrete answers, not political demagogy, I ask you to stop this tirad of smoke bombs and devote ourselves to the agenda because this is what Serbia and citizens expect of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16850	I will read to you the order of the MPs, under which they reported a violation of the Rules of Procedure: Srdjan Milivojevic, Slobodan Samardžić, Marijan Risticevic, Aleksandar Jugovic, Bojan Djuric. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16851	Thank you. I'm advocating a violation of Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure. There's a National Assembly College here. I invite you to step out of the mud and the mud alive, to take advantage of your business opportunities, call on the College of the National Assembly and agree on how we will overcome this problem in the work. I can't accept your information on the work that the Ministry of Finance website could see the agenda for today's session, the text of tax laws, because it's the same as you saying that the dobosar is going to pass here now, so it's going to be the one (speaking in foreign language), so as in Salash in Little Rit, the citizens of Serbia will be able to get acquainted with the tax laws. Let's not make Salash into a little ass of the congregation and turn this into a hook, an ass and mud, to get us all out of it together. This is where we want the Prime Minister. This is where we want the Deputy Prime Minister. This is not the tax code set of Mladjan Dinkic and G17 plus. This is a tax set of the laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Where are the SNS MPs? Everyone ran away from participating in this mess and shame. They drank milk, I don't know where they are. I guess that aflatoxin milk gave us the results. We want the most responsible people in the country here. Don't let the government hide behind one man. It is known who created this, the entire government, the first Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, to sit here and answer questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16852	The word has Slobodan Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16853	The Honorable Chairman, this is about organising the work of this National Assembly and the way this meeting was called. So we don't have to spread the story. The last 40 minutes we've heard a lot of things, there's been controversy about the content of the law, and it's all unnecessary. When you look at what the opposition is looking for, then, the opposition party's goal is to actually meet later, to free the time and observe the procedure and the way the Assembly normally works. We all know these laws are very important. It is a large number of tax laws than its content and manner of discussion, and in particular an amendment that will also be given by representatives of the majority and minorities, these laws can be improved. It is the only intention of the opposition today in parliament. We all know that this is in a strange way called a violation of both customs and rules and written procedures in the Rules of Procedure. I speak to the representatives of the majority, I'm sure you see for yourself that there are problems here in the way this session is called, and probably many of you are not glad that this is how the debate begins on an important set of laws. It is very important this debate and simply, let's look rationally at what's better, whether it remains a shadow in this whole story about tax laws or because we haven't been able to prepare in time or because there will be various interruptions and neurotic situations, such as this one, and it's caused by the way the Assembly is called on, or we will delay the start of the session, do those previous procedures, call on the college, look for the opinions of many relevant expert bodies around these laws. We have in mind that the public discussion has actually been bypassed about this, although the preparation of the law has lasted a long time. I suggest we meet briefly on Monday, start working normally, and in the meantime, do these actions that we skipped and maybe bring this discussion about the Rules of Procedure to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16854	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16855	I don't understand unarticulated screams, but there's no connection, you can't de-concentrate me. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising a member, Mr. Andric... (Ivan Andric from the place: Here I won't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16856	Please don't address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16857	Please warn, can you create the conditions that I can state what I have? I'm advocating Article 103(1), (2), (4) and (7), and I'm advocating Article 108 and Article 111. Rules of Procedure. Article 103 says - the MP has the right to point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly. Article 2 - The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the President of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. Item 4. - The MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what these infringements consist of. Item 7 of Article 103. – The President of the National Assembly shall be obliged to impose the rights provided for in Articles 108 and 111 on a national MP who does not comply with the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article or in another obvious way. Those measures shall consist of a statement of the warning. So here the MPs repeatedly advertised Article 27, although after the first appearance they should not have been allowed to indicate such an injury again. It is often allowed, the chairman allowed MPs to perform, speak fire, and not say at all which member of the Rules of Procedure they think the chairman broke the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I ask the President to give the measures referred to in Article 108, in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with Article 7, to MPs who incorrectly point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16858	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16859	Injury of Article 106. I just tried to explain why three SPO MPs, so the DHSS did not give a quorum for the start of the session, which is why the quorum was given because we wanted to save the money of Serbian citizens, because every minute, please, if you can secure order at the session, because every minute of delays by the DS, by other political parties costs the citizens of Serbia. We will vote against this law and let the gentlemen, our long-standing coalition partners, know it. I remember when we sat here together in this House and there is no Miss Nada Kolundžija, when we had several times, or when she asked one opposition party to give the quorum to improve efficiency in the work of the Assembly, that this political option which is now the largest political opponent, was just giving them a quorum. (President: Mr. Jugovic, I must remind you that we have not yet begun the search of the law. ) So we will vote against the law, but we will save the money of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16860	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16861	I almost cried. You hurt a member, Mrs. Kovac, can we?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16862	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16863	You've injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly under which you are obliged to give an explanation whether or not you believe a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done, you did not do so for intervention under the Rules of Procedure of the LDP Parliamentary Group Chairman Cedomir Jovanovic, thereby violating the Rules of Procedure. I don't think we can continue this session, you've already been told. You defend the acts of the National Assembly President, I'm not talking about your personal capacity, but you don't have the political capacity to do this right now, it shows this debate so far. There is no SNS here, this move by the ruling majority defends only your party, which I appreciate as some kind, and Mr. Jugovic, party or some other loyalty, is not going into at all, but obviously we cannot continue the session. All those arguments that came to you from three opposition political parties are talking about it. I really don't understand. How do you think you start this session? By keeping your mouth shut, not paying attention to your remarks and claiming that everything's okay? We've lasted all these years, we'll hold on now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16864	Mr. Djuric, I'm sorry you didn't understand my tolerance. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, which you mentioned, which you say I broke, says you can't advertise the same member of the Rules of Procedure more than once. I'm very tolerant today, we can continue with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Please, would you like to make a statement about the violation of Article 103, Mr. Djuric? Boyan Djuric, from the post: Yes. I thank you. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16865	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 74 and Article 101. Since the budget gap is as black as the night these laws entered this assembly, we ask you to interrupt this session, because not only are you trying to hide from the citizens that paying taxes on doghouses will fill budget gaps... (President: I will not allow you Mr Panic to talk about the budget gap when you are advertising the breach of Rules of Procedure and Article 74) You might want to hide something else that the Anti-Corruption Agency in the government that has declared zero tolerance to fight corruption could also deal with. In fact, we have information that the author of this tax reform, Mrs. Bisic, works at the US company KPMG... (President: What does this have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? He's in tax counseling...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16866	Mr. Panic, I am obliged to give you a warning since after my two warnings you did not move on to the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next reported is MP Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16867	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 101 and 109. I think it is clear to everyone in this room that you, as chairman, are obliged to interrupt this session to consult the heads of parliament, in order to agree on further work. I find it necessary to have opinions. Madam Chairman, I'll repeat the proposal. It is a violation of Article 101, i.e. the advertising of Articles 101 and 109 respectively. Please, as chairman, take advantage of your parliamentary opportunity to set a break, to consult with the heads of parliament, to determine the day when this session will continue, in the meantime, to get the opinion of all the committees responsible, the Fiscal Council, whom we have heard of astounding with these laws, to hear the opinion of the professional public. On the other hand, you're in one position where you've won the Assembly presidency, where the SNS, as many times as ever, has escaped. She voted for these laws at the government. Without their vote, they couldn't be adopted by the government, and then left to you, to compete with the SPO with us. They're very few here today, and they'll probably have a hard time defending these laws, hiding, like many times so far, behind others, like Vulin, who resigned, so he called it off today. Please interrupt this session and consult with the heads of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16868	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16869	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the chairman, I think that a number of times a member of 107 has been injured when it comes to my fellow Members, and you have not responded, especially in the application of Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, because my colleagues in the former regime have the right to seek out the College. No one slows them down. They also have the right to talk about laws, whether they are good or bad, but they do not have the right to represent themselves as defenders of democracy in parliament, because during their rule we received a convocation session of the Serbian Assembly without the law being in the process. If that's what we wanted to point out, the current great protectors of democracy have taken our word and kicked us out of the session. That's what happened, gentlemen. There's one more thing I'd like to point out as well. If someone wants to call this government a thief, to take money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I can only say, gentlemen of the former regime, some of them were suspected ministers yesterday, and today they were blamed, so they know where these black holes were made, who made them, and they were created wherever you could make them while you were in power, so now we have laws like this in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16870	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16871	Pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and before I say which member it is, I'm simply going to say that there is no question here whether anyone worked better or worse. It doesn't matter, it matters what's happening right now. That's what people are interested in, and that's what interests us, the MPs of the people. The other thing, I'm interested in something. Yes, it is true that a single member of the Rules of Procedure can be sought out, but what if the breach of the Rules of Procedure is not exhausted in one act? I'm going to give you a very quick example, and I'm going to explain which member it is. National MP Jovan Palalic initially said it was a violation of article 86 because you did not explain why the session was scheduled in a shorter period. You said that the argument is in that, here, after that you said and said – simply because we want the laws to be passed as soon as possible. By passing the law as soon as possible, it's the consequence of an act, and it can't be the cause. We ask you and permanently this injury lasts relative to Article 86. – why did you schedule this session within a short period of time? Don't make fools of us, tell us it's because you want the laws to be passed as soon as possible. Well, that's a clear consequence of the session being scheduled in a short time. Why do you want it, that's what we're asking you. And we don't ask you, but the Rules of Procedure and the article of 86 asks you, and you have to explain it. If you can't explain it, do what people ask you to do, delay the beginning of the session, call on the College and discuss this matter properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16872	First I have to tell you that the session was scheduled by the president of the National Assembly. The second thing, every time a session is scheduled for an emergency procedure, you get an explanation. So, you've never had any objections to that argument before. Now you have a special one. You have the right to do that, of course. You want me to answer why the president of the assembly scheduled the session before the deadline? (Yes) I would ask you to wait for the President of the Assembly when he comes and answers you. Anyway, we're working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's yours to make objections to that. Please wait for the President of the Assembly to come and explain. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16873	I think we should set a break, wait for the president. But before that, I would point out that, obviously, in the preparation of the session and in the procedure for the adoption of the law, the President of the National Assembly has practically failed to comply with Article 153 concerning Article 151. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, all these bill proposals had to have reasons for the regulation provided for in Article 151 and this is not available, especially in terms of the analysis of the current situation and what is true, it has to be given extensively in terms of the analysis of the effects of the regulation, but if it is an emergency procedure, there must be an analysis of the effects of the regulation and we know why something like this should be done. It is precisely the part that we need to clarify, which is that in a provision that regulates an emergency procedure, which has also been violated on the matter of Article 167, that an emergency procedure can pass a law that regulates issues and relations resulting from circumstances that could not be predicted, and the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure can cause serious consequences. It would be nice if Mr. Minister heard that in a whole series of laws, sublegal acts are foreseen to be brought in 30 days, 60 days or six months. I would understand the urgency that the sublegal act followed the law and that it was said – sublegal acts will be adopted within three days. This is a circus, that in six months, sublegal acts will be or somewhere that the provisions will come into force in 2016. Who's making a circus out of the National Assembly? The fact is that in the laws proposed, it is proposed that a grandmother or aunt who holds a hundred dinars in the bank must be self-taxed and calculate interest, if not, can be fined 50,000 dinars. Is this good law or isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-22-0.u16874	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly has held talks with the heads of Parliament and that it is agreed that we continue our work on Friday 24 May at 10.00 hours. Thank you very much.
