ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-20-0.u12617	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the total number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 134 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Dijana Vukomanovic, Meho Omerović, Slavica Savic, Gordana Comić, Milica Delevic and Natasa Vukkovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of military Serbia and other powers of defence in the multi-national operations in 2013. THE year since the National Assembly conducted a unique search into the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PARTICIPATION OF A SERVANE OF THE SERVE SERBIA IN MULTINATIONAL OPERATIONS IN 2013. THE year since the National Assembly conducted a unique search into the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, v – nine, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote is 14, out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2013. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in the lead and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – 12 abstentions – there is no, 12 out of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: Article 2, which was submitted by MP Olgica Batic; Article 7, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Popović and Jovan Palalic; Article 9, which was submitted by MP Borisav Kovacevic; Article 14, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector, as well as the amendment of the Security Service Control Committee to Articles 8, 10, 11 and 17. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly accepted the proposal in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstention – voted 171 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstention – voted 171 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 180 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Kovacevic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 172 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 172 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popov and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 174 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 170 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 170 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 179 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 176 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote – 179 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olga Batic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 183 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171, v – 10 abstentions – there is no, no vote – seven of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures of EXPRIATION AND IMPLEMENTATION TO REALIZE THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE SPECIFIC GAS TRANSPORT SYSTEM "SOUTE TOK" Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a law establishing public interest and special procedures for expropriation and obtaining documentation in order to implement the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream", in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – 10 abstentions – there is no, no vote – six of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: together Branka Karavidić and Biljana Hasanovic-Korac to the members of the 4th and 5; Aleksandra Senić to the 6th with the correction; Ivan Jovanovic to the 10th and together Radmila Gerov, Judite Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić and Bojan Đurić to Article 17. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 175 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 177 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – nine abstentions – there is no, no vote – 165 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 174 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 184 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 182 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 187 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted – 188 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 177 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 181 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 173 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Branko Karavidic and Biljana Kasanovic-Korac submitted the 10th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted – 191 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 185 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 187 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Kasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted this amendment with a correction. I'm putting the amendment to the vote with the correction. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 33 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the determination of public interest and the special procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documents in order to implement the construction of the natural gas transport system "South Stream", in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, against – 12 abstentions – there is no, no vote – six of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a bill on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documents to realize the construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream". As we now move to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts (points 6.7 and 8 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3.6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF) in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – four abstentions – there is no, no vote – 32 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this bill with the majority of votes. I put to the vote the draft law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention number 181 on private employment agencies in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 179 against – there is no one with abstention – there is no vote – 19 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this bill with the majority of votes. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the validation of amendments and additions to the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 150 on the Administration of Labour, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 21 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this bill with the majority of votes. We move to a decision on the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION on the termination of the FUNCTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE VORT KASACION COURT After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the 9th agenda, before the transition to decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – 45, abstentions – one, 14 of the 198 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to a decision on the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DECISION OF THE MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CULTURE COUNCIL After the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides by majority of the votes of all Members of the National Council for Culture. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Culture. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted 56 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to a decision on the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY FOR THE FOLLOWING OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE UNITED NATIONAL ASSESSMENT - WOMANS, PEACE AND SAFETY IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the 11th agenda point, and before I move to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly is carrying out the electoral jurisdiction of the majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to determine the composition of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the case of Resolution 1325 of the United Nations Security Council – Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 186, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a proposal for a decision to determine the composition of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the case of Resolution 1325 of the Security Council of the United Nations – Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia. We move to a decision on the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF MEMBER STATES After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises electoral jurisdiction with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the LSV parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 180, against – none, with abstention – one, voted 13 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the LSV parliamentary group, by majority of the votes of all MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after an explanation by the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require without the right to explain that the National Assembly, without a search, should be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at a session on 14 February 2013, at 11:10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 188 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, at a session on 14 February 2013, at 11.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
