ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 149 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zoran M. Bojanić, Ivan Karic, Slobodan Jeremic, Sasa Dujovic and Miroslav Petkovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session in addition to the representatives of the motions of all members of the Government to be attended by Dejan Jovicevic, Director of the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the Negotiation Process, Marko Djuric, adviser to the President of the Republic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Friday 26 April 2013, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure for the need to review the government’s report as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013 I established the following Dn e n e d: 1. A report on the current process of political and technical dialogue with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina with the intervention of the EU, including the process of implementation of the agreements reached by the government. You're reporting from the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15191	Dear President of the Assembly, I'd like to advertise the material we've received under Article 81. Rules of Procedure. So, we received a report from the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which was held at 9:00 this morning and in this material we have one view that the session was attended by Dejan Pavicevic, director of the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs, but there is no view that the session was also attended by Krstimir Pantic, deputy director for Kosovo and Metohija. Krstimir Pantic was present, was invited to the Kosovo and Metohija session neatly, he spoke. He spoke of Serbs from Kosovo not and cannot accept this agreement, he spoke of the consequences of the agreement if applied in the area of police and justice, how many people will be out of work, how many people will have to move out, etc. I'm advertising the formal side of this thing, which he wasn't mentioned as a participant, and he had to be referred to as an 81st member of this conversation, who spoke, who was neatly invited and invited in an official capacity, as I ask you to correct this call for the National Assembly, where you speak of whom you have called as representatives of the Government. So, according to this call, Mr. Alexander Vulin, director of the office, was invited here, in the meantime, to resign. At the very least, you had to attend this session and Mr. Krstimir Panic as Deputy Director of the Office. Do the office shut down so you don't call him or in this report you keep quiet that he was invited to the session this morning and spoke as he spoke. So please correct these errors in these two documents and set a break while you correct it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15192	I don't agree with you, and I don't think you're right. First, the government did not authorise Mr Pantic to be a trustee. So he was not in the capacity of the government's authorised representative to attend the session, which is why he is not present in the report. As far as the other side is concerned, when I called on Mr. Vulin, he was the office director of the office, he resigned in the meantime, and that is why I say today he doesn't mention himself in that sense. I don't mind finding out, I'm sure Mr. Dracun as chairman of the Committee will say all that, but the Committee voted eight to one, that report was adopted with most votes, so I think the Committee members made it clear what they think about it. Anyway, I disagree. Of course, you have the right to request that this be stated by the National Assembly in the voting day. Do you want the National Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15193	You see, it's a document signed by the president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, Mr...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15194	You don't have the right to take your word for it, you just have the right to say do you want the Assembly to declare it or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15195	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15196	We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Report on the current policy and technical dialogue process with the temporary institutions of self-government in the framework of the European Union, including the procedure of the implementation of the agreements reached, you have received a report submitted by the Government. You received the report from the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to propose a long-term debate? The word is Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15197	That's why I'm answering. This is a session in which one very complex topic is needed and very dramatic for the life of this country to be discussed in a way that the largest number of MPs can speak and that those who speak have enough time to expose what they have to say. So this isn't just a simple session, it's not even a regular emergency session, this is a session where we talk about the existence of this country, and if we don't have the right to double that time now, I don't know when we're going to have the right. Therefore, my proposal is to double the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15198	The president of the DSS parliamentary group has proposed for a longer period of debate, i.e. that the debate time for parliamentary groups is 10 hours. This proposal will be decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 173 MPs have not voted among the 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. We move to consider the report on the political and technical dialogue process so far with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina with the EU intervention, including the process of implementing the agreed reached. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15199	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before you there is a report on the current process of political and technical dialogue with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, with the intervention of the EU including the process of implementation of the agreements reached. I would like to comment on the framework in which the negotiations were moving. These were certainly the hardest political negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. Why? Because the first negotiations that were led after Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence were the first negotiations after the fact that one significant number of countries, and the strongest, recognised so unilaterally and illegally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija. The frameworks set out were that the UN General Assembly Resolution transferred the intervention to the EU from the UN to the EU. I will remind you that the Republic of Serbia was one of the motions of the resolution. The given framework was also the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which we were looking for, which went hand in hand... (People MP Miodrag Nikolic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15200	Please do not interfere with the motionary's representative. Don't, I'll give you a warning. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15201	The question is wrong. There's the ones who asked the question, so I'll answer. Anyway, I'm really asking you... What you have to say, you have a microphone, go ahead and say it. If you're sitting here, where the ruling or the opposition is, I don't care. I am the Prime Minister and speak on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who unanimously made a decision. From that point of view, I want to explain the specific frames we've been moving in. You are given the frameworks that the EU Council identified two years ago as a key political criterion for further European integration and defined the topics. Also, the given political framework is that Germany has introduced parallel institutions, the abolition of so-called. parallel institutions, as they call them, as one of the conditions for its consent to Serbia's further European integration. I would like to say that in history we have had several missed opportunities for this country – the Dayton Agreement and a good political atmosphere for Serbia, October 5th and this now. This is an opportunity to try in a different way to defend our national and national interests, not to celebrate our defeats after all, as we have celebrated for centuries. In April 32 years ago, the SFRJ presidency introduced a state of emergency in Kosovo and Metohija. I was 15 at the time. Since then, almost all of us have lived in a state of emergency. We fought, the country was tortured under sanctions, we were bombed, we lost battles and territories, we robbed ourselves... (The People's MP Miodrag Nikolic shows photos. ) [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15202	I'm asking for peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15203	I hope you will now and so best defend Kosovo and Metohija. Because you defended him here in Belgrade by salons, by academic circles, by burning down mosques and embassies, instead of introducing an army to Kosovo when the Serb people were attacked. [[Applause]] You have no right to say that because, during your government, independence of Kosovo and Metohija has been declared. [[Applause]] It's the biggest thing a government has ever given itself. What was the reaction at a time when Kosovo and Metohija were declared independent? But I'm not here to talk about it. (National MP Milica Radovic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15204	Please don't throw the speaker away. I'll give you a warning. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15205	There's no problem. You know what, you'll talk too. Do you think we should turn the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into that? Ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I think you realize that you are in a vast minority. Just because you're a minority doesn't mean you're right, but respect the right and the majority to think what they think they're doing in Serbia's interest. Just because someone doesn't want to lie about Kosovo doesn't mean they love him less than you do. As is known, we have fought, ladies and gentlemen. The country was tortured under sanctions, we were bombed. We lost both battles and territories. We robbed ourselves during a failed transition. Today our country is devastated and only if we have the courage, if we do not lie to ourselves or others, and only if we have a clear vision will we and our generation be able to build a country, not leave our children to clear the ruins. That's why we've been negotiating, to put an end to both the past and misery, and endless defeats. Someone had to do this to get something out of nothing. It's not much, ladies and gentlemen. We know it's too small, but we know that's all at the moment. We haven't had Kosovo in years. We don't have an army on it, we don't have the police, we don't have our institution. We have a small part of Kosovo. Of course we kept them. I'd like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, in 2000, when you came to power, what situation in Kosovo did you find and how many institutions and how many of them do you have today? It's the effect of your authority. You have built Kosovo's sovereignty year after year by saying Kosovo is Serbia and nothing by working on the ground. Until the other day, our institutions called you parallel. They asked us to shut them down. We could, of course, ignore it all. We could have driven out strangers. We could have set fire to the embassy and mosques. We could point cannons at Kosovo. We could have become European North Korea. What would happen then? We'd win? We would have won Pristina? With you in charge? Or would what has already happened to us in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, have happened to us if it had not been for the Dayton Agreement and Kosovo in 1999? They were all, ladies and gentlemen of our sacred Serbian country. Or let someone remember a column of refugees, wounded and injured civilians. May someone also remember today that Croatia will today be a new EU member, that Gotovina and the rest are at large, and where are we, ladies and gentlemen? Has injustice been done to our people? Yes, it is. The injustice that preceded the drilling, our drilling into the chest, the rejection of international plans, the media heroism that was mirrored in that when they shot their heads off, no matter what, leaving the people for mercy and mercy. Such injustice, ladies and gentlemen, we couldn't allow it this time. An injustice in which our people would die and leave Kosovo and the north, an injustice in which no one would answer again, an injustice in which Kosovo would be recognised and continued to Europe, and we would again end, humiliated, excommunicated and forgotten. Another injustice and defeat we would celebrate. We are small, ladies and gentlemen, for so much injustice. We don't need more victims than the ones we've suffered, ladies and gentlemen, we need life. The possibility of having a life in both the north and the south and all of Serbia. The possibility to stop thinking about how we're going to die for faith and glory, but how we're going to live for Serbia. This abolished the justifications for both this and any future authority. No more hiding and hiding behind Kosovo. We're all alone on this bare ice, and it's up to us to figure out what's gonna happen to it tomorrow, factories, schools, hospitals, apartments, or just endless cemeteries and tears. This is a question whether or not to be, but not just for the north of Kosovo, but for all of Serbia. That is why today we are not talking about negotiations only in Brussels, Kosovo. We choose the kind of Serbia we'll have tomorrow. Humiliated in folk cuisine, asphyxiated in tears, or strong, economically developed in which medicines will be for everyone and in which Serbia will be a cure for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, GDP today in Serbia after 24 years is only 65% of the 1989 GDP. The countries that are in our environment that we talked about with the mockery of their status are today by all parameters ahead of us. Should we lose another 20 or 30 or 50 years for another honorable defeat? Milos Obrenovic said by creating a modern Serbian state -- "It is no longer time to share the land with sabers and hit the heads of the border." Today, historical and ethnic justice is otherwise valued and divided. The agreement we initialled should be seen as a charter on the rights and freedoms of Serbs in Kosovo, small for our wishes, but large for survival in Kosovo and Metohija. If they didn't let us solve whose land it was, we'd decide what rights and who had them on it. The agreement that lies ahead of you is the most Serbia could achieve at this time, as well as other agreements that have been reached in the negotiation process. This agreement is not satisfied with many. We'd all be happier if we could get a lot more. In diplomacy and politics wisdom is getting what it can be. If we act differently, we can lose what we really get. Serbia's delegation insisted on solutions that would provide security for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and allow them to survive and build their future in better conditions than ever before. What was the alternative? To leave the negotiations. To completely block the negotiating process, isolate the country. To talk about us again in international forums without our presence, and to make decisions that are harmful to us. The final result was a new exodus and the disappearance of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. As long as we sit at the negotiating table, we have a chance to repair our position and protect our interests. The moment we get up from the table, we lose everything. Whoever's not at the table is arguing at the table. This government wouldn't allow it, nor would they allow it. The compromises and small gradual victories are better than the great epic defeats and whines of world injustice. It is better to receive reproach from those who sit in a corner and criticize everything than to put the people in danger. It is easier for us to suffer insults and threats than to see the sufferings of our people. That's why we did the best we could. This has also enabled us to continue our European integration, which our people and our country are of vital importance. Serbia is good news after a long time. We've opened the room to talk to us on an even basis. The government adopted the agreement with the consent of the president of the Republic of Serbia, but such an agreement is not sufficient only for the executive authority. Of course, the highest representative body of the country, parliament, is also very important. At this historic moment, we are given this responsibility and we should not run away from it and we cannot run, no matter what we decide. I'm convinced we couldn't at this point and we can't find a better solution. Those who speak of betrayal, sale, surrender or do not understand what it is, or will not and cannot understand in the fever of historical and national emotions. You remember in 1999 when Resolution 1244 was passed, even when the Dayton Agreement was brought, that many accused of treason, that we would all, and they swore in that resolution and the Dayton Agreement. So let's not get into a situation where we later regret a worse deal like this. This agreement does not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, nor does capitulation be signed. That's what I want to do again to all Serbian citizens. The countries are recognised in strictly declared forms and no silent or factual recognition is possible. There is no word in this agreement on the recognition of Kosovo's independence, nor did any of us from the EU ask for it. If it was asked for, we wouldn't accept it. As I said, this is a temporary solution based on the basic solutions from the platform proposed by the President of the Republic, in the real frameworks of the given situation, the most that could be drawn. We must continue to fight for a final solution to Kosovo's and Metohija's status. What will be truly supported by our friends and allies, not what we think is best. What will support our allies who can bring this process to an end. So, if someone sees this as a final solution, I think it's entering a very troubled zone of what Pristina wants to impose. We only agreed on a temporary arrangement, which will enable our national and state interests to survive and survive on the surface, so that we can fight for a final solution. If you have any other suggestions, go ahead, go ahead, say it and don't throw it away. I certainly won't throw anything away from any of you. After all, I was, I supported your government in a very difficult time. I supported your government when maybe something else could have happened in Kosovo and Metohija. I didn't throw it away when you explained why it wasn't real. You remember then there were ideas. We watched silently as our people were killed on March 17th. We watched silently as they declared Kosovo and Metohija independence. We told Republika Srpska - do not declare independence. Is that what I'm talking about in public? Do you bear any responsibility for it or do you think it's just the ones who came after you? I want to tell you one thing -- we're going to leave the country in better shape than we found it, and be assured, unlike you, who are you compared to 1999, that we are declaring this agreement a success today. With this agreement, no one has lost or won. The process of resolving Kosovo's knot will be long and difficult. Many of us, but also future politicians in power, will have to fight further. Let's save our strength for that task. There's always time and space to argue. We've had big misunderstandings with Europe in recent years. Serbia's problem is that Serbia cannot achieve its national and state interests without its allies. We, a country that doesn't know where it starts, and where its sovereignty ends, can't count on any development, progress and future. We're just doomed to the easy and hard dying state. We must not run away from answering such difficult questions, because the answers will be even harder if we leave them behind for generations. That's why we need to tell the truth, run a real policy, measure our strengths and all our options, make decisions and bear responsibility for those decisions, so that we can tell everyone clearly what Serbia can and can't do. Not only are we talking about territory, whose vast part we don't control, but also the lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, about people who live there. We are in the Balkans, as I said last time, in an incendiary appendix, which will either be cured or cut off. It's a cruel reality, ladies and gentlemen, in which we live. We don't like it, but it's the real life we live in, or maybe you think we should tell fairy tales about good night and wake up tomorrow morning with the Kosovo Storm, where the state won't be able to and won't be able to intervene, because many of those who today say we betrayed Kosovo will say tomorrow – why should we fight for Kosovo? Besides, in 1999, in all these heroic cities that I've just mentioned were deserter gatherings, and here we brought amnesty for those who deserted, at the time of your government and, of course, amnesty for Albanian terrorists and separatists. It's not just Kosovo today. Today it is the biological survival of the entire nation. Serbia has become weak, small, powerless in all this time, these twenty, thirty years. Maybe someone will judge us today for what we do, but later, for the courage to do this, they'll respect us for the next generation. Today, we cannot defend not only northern Kosovo, we cannot defend Serbia from poverty, not perspective and from total destruction. The refusal would end with Kosovo's Storm. Someone will say England defends the Fokland Islands, who knows how many miles from London, that's true, because of several hundred people living there. We fought for thousands and millions of Serbs, so we were excommunicated, sanctions were imposed, we were bombed and destroyed. That's our position. It's not our position in England, it's our position in Serbia. That's where we started the negotiations. Those who would come after us would have an even worse position. That's why we need to make a normal state. After all, I am looking at each and every one of you with my eyes open here, because everyone's policy here was being checked out in the state of Serbia, because each one of you was in power and each one of you could solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, so why didn't you solve it? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to see how the other projects ended. Other projects ended with the disappearance of Serbs from those areas. Maybe it's easier for us to have a policy of the final act, because then no one would be guilty. No one would be to blame for what happened, and we'd appreciate the real situation. Let's act a little differently. You keep mentioning Emperor Lazarus. I'll mention here his wife, Milic, who gave her daughter to Oliver Bajazita, who killed Lazarus. Why? To save Serbia. These are historical facts, ladies and gentlemen. If you didn't know them, it doesn't mean you should be freed from that ignorance. Today, we need to assemble ranks to find allies, economic and military reinforcements. I was very fond of one message in this era of text messages that were coming. Someone from Austria sent me a message – not in the EU at all. Very nice, he and his children are in the EU, and yours and our children will be destroyed here in Serbia. Enough with that hypocrisy policy. Ladies and gentlemen, go back to Serbia and give lessons to the people of Serbia. I want to thank all those who participated in these negotiations, especially the SNS President and first Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Aleksandr Vukic. It's very important that the state summit has achieved unity. The government and the President of the Republic have uniquely supported the initialling and signing of this agreement. If anyone thinks this agreement is bad, there's no problem in making this known to the people. I would only warn you that we are guarding the division of our people, that we are guarding the division of Serbs from central Serbia, Serbs from Kosovo, as we have, in order to save our conscience, attacked Serbs from Republika Srpska, that they have gone and sold their own Republika Srpska. We don't need divisions, we need unity. If you want a referendum for unity, we propose the following – we will go to the referendum. If the people decide otherwise, that they do not support this agreement, of course we will no longer be in these political functions. But if the people decide otherwise, all those who refuse to implement this agreement will have to implement it. (Marko Jaksic, from the place: Ua. I wish, Marco, I really wish you could have cried out in Pristina right now, but you can't, and you can't, especially in Paris. It's easy for you to teach lessons and you've provided your lives elsewhere. Don't give a lesson to the people. So how's the president? Well, well done, Mr. President. Please, I'm not complaining to you. You have your own attitude. Be so politically correct that you respect a different opinion. That doesn't look like your client. Vojislav Kostunica is a fine gentleman. I don't know what way you're interpreting that you're throwing and acting like some people who aren't here today in parliament. Or the SRS that marked all the debacles of the Serbian people like that. Why didn't they organise a demonstration about the pogroms in Republika Srpska? And in 1999, they said the deal was that it was capitulation, that they were leaving the government, and then they came back. Serbian Radical Party. The democratic party of Serbia should not today be reminded of the Serbian Radical Party of the time. Serbia's policy should not be irrational. It has to be rational. If any of you see a wall in front of you, I don't think they're going to hit him, but they're going to visit him. Can we find a way out of this canyon and the maze we're in together? That's our goal. If we can determine people's unity and fight together for Serbia's future. I call on everyone to, no matter what they say, take into account the interests of our entire people, all of Serbia and, of course, our people in Kosovo and Metohija, that if we differ in our tactics of how to achieve our goals, that does not mean that we should call each other enemies and traitors. It's my first time being called a traitor, usually being accused of war crimes, you know? Now, now, suddenly I've become a traitor. If I'm a traitor, from your unreasonable conflict policy to the whole world, to the harm and sacrifice of the whole nation, I am. I am in favour of Serbia leading a wise, rational policy that will create a strong, respected Serbia, which will then be able to defend Kosovo and Metohija. That is why I call on you to support this policy of the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15206	Replica. Free Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15207	Mr. Prime Minister, in his speech, which was to explain both the Agreement and the Report, he devoted much of the time to the DSS. It's time for at least one part of those insinuations to be answered. I say, at least for one piece. I'll limit myself to that part that, in fact, according to the dictionary and content, has been fully in agreement with the Western propaganda that has been headed against the DSS for 10 years. It's a general place, Mr. Prime Minister, that when a DSS attack comes out of those kitchens, through domestic media and domestic participants to mention, under number one, the arson of the mosque and the arson of the embassy. You even mentioned at one point that you were politically correct and that you were trying to follow that modern expression of Western politics. You took one shot under the belt just by mentioning this case. You know very well that in 2004, which you mentioned, when it was the burning of the mosque and when you gave government support at that time, that the DSS didn't burn down the mosque, or anyone of its own, or anyone in power. You weren't in the government in 2008, but you know for a fact that the DSS didn't burn down the U.S. Embassy, nor did anyone in power. At the very least, today we have a trial about it and about it. He'll probably get an epilogue. When you say we've been leading a policy of conflict with the whole world, you've made a characteristic mistake for your current policy. The whole world is for you today, west. The West is one small part of the world, getting smaller by impact. We are not running a policy of conflict with the whole world, but we are running a policy of defence of national interests against countries that are jeopardising Serbia's national interests. (President: Time. We have the support of most of the world here, except you don't want that support. You want the support of those who take away Kosovo. There's a mistake in your attack on the DSS and its policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15208	Replica, Marko Jaksic. I'm sorry, Mr. Dacic's right before you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15209	I didn't know Marco called, otherwise I'd wait. Not to answer twice, but I really don't want to turn this into an DSS controversy. Everyone here could have witnessed your throwout when I spoke. That's true. If you want to have a proper discussion, not getting into an argument and who's up for what, then we need to create conditions so we can hear each other. From that point of view, I absolutely advocate that you have the full right to act, to speak, and no one should and should not deny it to you. I didn't say the DSS burned down, and I apologize if that's what it looked like. I was talking about the time of power that was then and that maybe there were other solutions. Mr. Samardzic, I really want to assure you that I am not a man who does not know the international political scene. As you know, a few weeks ago I spoke to both Russian officials and President Putin. Russia is our greatest political friend. Russia and I are about to sign a strategic partnership agreement. I also discussed with President Putna, and President Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, on Russia's final support for proposals for a final solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues. We are aware that it is not Russia that opposes our national and state interests and we are aware that it is not the whole world of the West. But unfortunately, the West is the one we're surrounded by. All countries in our environment are either heading towards NATO, are or are heading towards the EU. We can't be a member of Euro-Asian integration, or BRIK, or anything else. We can't, nor is it Russia's interest to have military bases here. Don't let it live in our heads like an unreal fantasy anymore. We need to see how we and our friends can create a real option to get something and save something. What's going to happen in the West, that's their problem. When it comes to the EU, we are not going there for them, but we are going, I guess, for our people. We are not going to the EU to make them better, but I guess our people would be better off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15210	Replica, Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15211	Mr. Prime Minister, I want to tell you that there are only 300 Serbs left in Kosovo, as far as shouting goes in 1999. My smallness has organized a defense. There are 20,000 of them today, and you're free to keep the promotions down. Not only northern Mitrovica, the entire northern part of Kosovo has become a political factor even talked about in Brussels. It's about yelling and national work. As far as these other matters are concerned, Mr. President, given that you had to sign the agreement, because he allegedly threatened an exodus of Serbs and some new Storm, I think you're misleading the public, to lie to the public, because here in this assembly in 2008, remember, at least one quarter of the MPs were here, we voted against the Actisari plan, which is where he was better than what you agreed to today. Was there a storm? It's not. Was anyone missing a head hair? It's not. With that principle, if we go and run like that, on June 15th, there will be a conversation on telecommunications, the Albanians will say again – if you do not sign everything we ask for, then the Serbs will get the Storm and thus reach Medvedje, Presevo and Nis. I think that's a bad way to defend yourself. There's one more thing I have to tell you, Mr. Prime Minister. I don't think you were the man in Brussels who conducted the negotiations. Why am I saying that? Considering one big media campaign that... (President: Time. I'll leave that through the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15212	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, MP Milovan Drecun, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Dracun, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15213	Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, Mr. Parliament, respected colleagues, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, discussed the report on the political and technical dialogue process with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina at the meeting held on 26 April 2013, with the intervention of the EU, including the implementation processes of the agreements reached by the government. Dejan Pavicevic, director of the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the negotiation process, attended the session. Since there were insinuations here that absolutely do not stand, but only serve to prove the thesis that united MPs want to present and create some sort of conspiracy, cover-up, I would like to remind the following - in the Report sent by the Government, and some MPs could read it carefully, writes - for the creditors, the government determines Dejan Pavicevic, Director of the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the Negotiation Process, Alexander Vulin, Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and Marko Djuric, adviser of the President of the Republic. So these are people who could appear on behalf of the government before the Assembly Committee. Since Mr. Vulin resigned, and we did not receive notice from the government's office that Mr. Pantic was authorized, so he did not find himself in this Report, so only Mr. Dejan Pavicevic was found. There's no conspiracy, no cover-up. At the Committee's session, various opinions were expressed, opposing opinions, very opposed, and the Committee decided by majority to propose to the National Assembly to accept the Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15214	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Samardzic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15215	Because of the insinuations that were told here at the outset. Obviously, I'm apostrophe. I want to inform the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15216	Excuse me. We could do that on the basis of a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15217	Based on the replica, that's what I said, Article 104. So, Mr. Krstimir Pantic, as deputy director of the office, came to the meeting and received his first word from the chairman of the Drecun Committee. He spoke and developed a controversy over what he was saying. Isn't that worth mentioning in this report? Let him answer that question. It's pretty simple that I asked and spoke. Was Mr Pantic there, was he in the official capacity, was he speaking and should he be mentioned in the report in the same way as Mr Pavicevic? Nothing else. Here we have the avoidance of one fact that Mr. Drecun confirmed when he gave his word to Mr. Pantic and first to speak on this committee. I don't know why these hidings and these maneuvers. I really don't know what to think except what Mr. Pantic was saying in a different way than Mr. Drecun expected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15218	Replica, Mr. Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15219	We can play with our tongues now. I explained – Mr Krstimir Pantic was not in this case a trustee of the government and therefore not in the report. It was Mrs. Mitrovic, too, just to remind you, who also works at the KIM office. As far as the discussion is concerned, if you want us to point out in the report to parliament who discussed it, how did you discuss it, and we'll do it in the next period. This is a report that should only serve parliament as voted by the Committee and nothing more. There's no hiding. There's no secrecy. We all heard and the media were there. There are records and stenographic notes of who discussed it, but if someone wants to cause a problem, they'll probably do it because today is a sunny day, which is no snow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15220	Are you looking for a replica? You have no basis. That's the second answer, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15221	It's elemental. Mr Drecun, will you tell the MPs in what capacity Mr Krstimir Pantic was at the meeting of the KIM Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15222	I don't think there's any need for us to go into debates that are completely clear. It's a technical matter. I think this is about the essence. After all, all MPs have the right to discuss and those who think this should be accepted or not and can get to know what happened at the Committee's session. I don't think there's any need to get into the technical discussions we've talked about enough. If you insist, Mr. Dracun, I'll give you my word. Mr. Drecun, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15223	Mr. Pantic is Deputy Director of the Government's Office and was present in that capacity, but not as a trustee of the government. I repeat, that's why it's not in this report. As a guest, I gave him my first word and allowed him to discuss it. So the report mentions the government's trustee. It wasn't Mr. Krstimir Pantic, but he came in front of the government office. I don't see what's unclear about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15224	Mr. Kostresh has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15225	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, LSV will vote in favour of the report on the political and technical dialogue process so far with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, with the intervention of the EU, including the process of implementing the agreements reached by the government today. Namely, LSV, as we have spoken on several occasions and publicly about it, is always ready to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it goes through European integration, although there are major political differences between us leaguers and the vast majority of people sitting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But we must take care of the interest of the Republic of Serbia and what is very important for all of us, so we will vote in favour of this report. We talked about it publicly and in the previous period and talked about it and when we talked to the Prime Minister, when he had consultations with representatives of parliamentary groups and heads of parliamentary parties. In fact, we are allies for this issue and we will always be allies when it comes to European integration, but I have to say one more thing. We will also be allies when the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working to improve relations in the region to overcome problems from the past, to create good neighbourly and good neighbourly relations in the region and when it comes to integration in the region. I think these are very important topics and these are topics that we do not need to give up and that is why we support this course that the Government of the Republic of Serbia now has. We leaguemen always told the truth when we were in power and when we were in opposition. That's why many have called us any ugly names, Mr. Prime Minister, and we are traitors, but well, that's not so bad. That often means you're right. We've been separatists, we've been a lot of things, but we've never given up on the goals we've been up against for 23 years, and we've never given up on supporting responsible policies, that policy that will give our citizens and citizens a better and better life. In 23 years of our political work, we haven't given up on our goals, and not only are we glad that we can support our efforts, to almost political indivisibles, but we also have an obligation to help you, because you have come to those positions and those positions that we have always stood for. That's why you have our support, and that's why we're voting for this proposal. I remind you that LSV was created as an anti-war movement, that we fought the wars of the 1990s, that we organized demonstrations against mobilization and in Novi Sad, and in Senta, and in Ada, and in Stari Moravica, and in other parts of Vojvodina, that we fought against the violent eviction of our neighbours, that we opposed those who in the act of nationalist madness and blindness offered sandwiches to our neighbours to banish them and thus play humanity. Our LSV is not a problem, and it was no problem for us to go to Srebrenica, or Vukovar, or Sarajevo. It was no problem for us to establish institutional ties between the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Assembly of Republika Srpska and to help the Republika Srpska Assembly when it entered the Assembly of the European Regions so that it could function and that it could work. Also, in 1999, we offered a programme of decentralisation and regionalisation of Serbia, which would have been adopted before Rambuje, today Serbia would be a modern European state, decentralised and regionalised, would have been complex, but it would still have no border in Kosovo. With our LDP colleagues, we opposed the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, which we knew to read that this constitution is meaningless, with the signed Kumanovski Agreement. We will have, ladies and gentlemen, in the future and this need and this task to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it is both non-European and unsustainable, and for that, gentlemen of the Government, you will have the full support of LSV. We have said countless times and we will repeat, it is time for Serbia to face itself, to face its problems. It's time to solve them, instead of running away from the problem and pushing them under the carpet. This agreement with Pristina is a step in that direction, and that is why we are giving full support for this move to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it really does not make sense to hide under the carpet and pretend that there are no problems. At the same time, I can't say, since I'm a leagueman, that parallel to the ongoing discussion, the ongoing issue and resolving Kosovo's problem, we have a situation that Vojvodina, from step to step, from document to document, is losing its jurisdiction that Vojvodina is in a major problem today. The Dukean institutions are being criminalized and humiliated. Vojvodjan's assets are sold out, history is over, and its specificities become a distraction. That's not good, Mr. Prime Minister, and I think you should do something about it. Kosovo and Metohija were often declared the most expensive Serbian word, words, and were in fact the cheapest regime excused by many regimes, and the regime's excuse was to draw attention from the problems of people's lives, to take away attention from Serbia's constant collapse of certain mythic themes, to Emperor Lazar, Emperor Dusan and other greats of history. We don't need to do that anymore, we don't need Kim to be an excuse. Kosovo and Metohija are a problem that we need to solve as well as we can. The agreement Serbia signed with Pristina for the Serb municipality community offers far more than Vojvodina has today as an AP within the Republic of Serbia, which is looking forward to me, because it shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia knows, when it will, that elections for real European autonomy and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it has already started that way, will continue and that Vojvodina will finally be able to discuss autonomy. The Serb municipality community, unlike Vojvodina, has a president and vice president. We don't have that. Unlike Vojvodina, it has full control, so it has original powers in the areas of economic development, education, health, urban and rural planning. The Duke doesn't have that either. The Serb municipality community has the possibility of getting some more transferred powers, which is good. They will play a representative role with the central government and the representative role will also play an advisory purpose, to implement the above-mentioned role and to introduce the monitoring function. What makes me particularly happy, Mr Dacic, and I am now addressing you as Minister of the Interior, is the fact that you have managed to fight four municipalities in northern Kosovo - Northern Mitrovica, Zvecan, Zubin Potok and Leposavic, select their own commanders, police commanders. That's a great job. I just don't understand how in Kosovo Mitrovica citizens can choose a police commander, and in Sremska Mitrovica they can't? Why can't the Kragujevci, say, pick their chief of police, because I hear there's been a problem? Why can't it be done in Leskovac and Nis? It's great that they can do it in these municipalities that I mentioned, but I think we should pass that practice on to the whole Republic of Serbia. Also, these four municipalities will have a regional police commander, which gives me hope that we will also have the opportunity to form a duke's police administration and that we in Vojvodina will have our regional police commander. The appeal court in Pristina will form a panel of judges in the agreement, which will make up most of the judges Kosovo Serbs. They will be responsible for municipalities with the majority Serb population, the appeals court departments, including judges and staff, will have headquarters in northern Mitrovica. Each panel of this department will be composed of a majority of Kosovo Serb judges. Depending on the nature of the case, the judges in charge. Great. That's well done. But it's a judicial authority and people need to have judicial authority there. I don't know why Vojvodina doesn't believe that Vojvodina has judicial authority. If we, Mr. Prime Minister and dear colleagues and colleagues in Vojvodina had such powers, which are predicted for the Serb community, we would be more than satisfied. I don't understand why there are always several arches in this country, one for Kosovo, one for Belgrade, the third for the rest of Serbia, and the fourth, the worst for us in Vojvodina. But to get back to the deal. I don't understand how someone can give himself the right to have a group of people, representatives of four municipalities in northern Kosovo, slow down, retain and prevent the development of the rest of the country and the development of their people. Where's the logic? Where is the logic that because of a small number of people, who certainly have rights and for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is fighting in the best possible way, where is best, where is the logic that we all need to fail now, we all need to be poor, we all need to live in isolation, and we all need to burn ourselves down, just because we can't get what one group of people is looking for? This high home and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all other state authorities should do everything in their power to enable these people to live as well as possible. But we can't repeat the mistakes that have already been made here. Proposition Z-4 has been rejected, so what happened to the Republika Srpska Krajina? What happened? Should we repeat such stories? Do we need to sit in isolation for the next 30 years and be poor, so that sometimes someone might find the possibility that what we've had in our best dreams might happen? Unfortunately, it won't happen. If we had respected and listened to Social Democrats League policy from the beginning, we wouldn't have come to this opportunity. Repeat, I am very glad that today's government has drawn close to our views, at least on this matter. We don't have time to wait anymore, we don't have time to give up, we don't have time to get down, we don't have time to be poor, we don't have time to be infected, we don't have time to be the worst in the whole world. This country and these citizens deserve to be the leaders of this region and every time or whenever you, any government, lead such a policy, will have the support of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, because this is the only way Serbia can go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15226	Mr. Jugovic. I don't have you registered. Here you go, Mr. Jugovic. I gave you my word. Just sign in one more time. Throw out and insert the card. Try the unit next to you. I'm asking someone from the National Assembly to come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15227	The Honorable President of the Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected members of the government, the SPO-DHSS MP club supports the Brussels Agreement, as neither the SPO nor the DHSS have ever hidden the truth from Serbian citizens. We measure facts, not passions and desires. By Kumanovski Agreement and Resolution 1244 of the United Nations Security Council, Serbia has accepted and signed that every government of the Serbian state withdraws from its entire territory its then AP Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia has accepted and signed two international and binding agreements on the loss of state sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. It is not, I stress, that the agreements were signed in Brussels on 19 April, but on 9 June 1999 in Kumanovo and 10 June 1999 in New York. What's changed in the last 14 years? Several more tens of thousands of Serbs left Kosovo and Metohija, also took part in a coup over Kosovo Serbs, and did not return to Kosovo and Metohija, neither could the laws of Serbia nor its government nor its administration nor its courts. The subsequent constitutional preamble to Serbia's sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija was in no way able to restore lost sovereignty, neither to annul the Kumanovo Agreement and Resolution 1244, nor to prevent the declaration of Kosovo independence, nor to the International Court of Justice's decision, that independence is neither contrary to Resolution 1244 nor to International Law. It has not prevented Kosovo's independence from recognising 22 of the 27 EU countries so far. We wish the facts were different, but they weren't. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this fact is known to everyone in this room, and I remind this fact because of citizens of Serbia who for many years every day are filled with lies, which cause only new accidents for both Serbia and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. Faced with a harsh reality, our negotiating team has avoided the dramatic consequences of the rejection of the Treaty in Brussels, Serbia has opened the door to the possibility of economic and democratic recovery, and has provided EU guarantees for the highest degree of Serbian self-government in Kosovo and Metohija and the strong ties of Kosovo-Methochian Serbs with the mother state of Serbia. In circumstances where there can be no sovereignty of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, the International Agreement on the Internal division of sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija between the majority Albanian and minority Serb national communities has been elected. It's chosen as much as possible. For the SPO-DHSS parliamentary club, as well as for our parties, this agreement is in the best interest of Serbia and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why we support him, and we're looking for his full application within the scheduled deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15228	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15229	Dear President, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, which refers to advocacy on the application of this Rules of Procedure and Order to the Assembly. You should have warned the previous speaker, not Mr. Jugovic, but the speaker before him, when he said Vojvodina was poor and not developing because of four municipalities in northern Kosovo. It's simply not true, and if we're going to talk about the truth, then Vojvodina isn't developing because of the 400 million that disappeared in the Development Bank, they're being placed, not because of four municipalities in northern Kosovo. Do not let this debate turn into a pillar of shame and of people in northern Kosovo living in northern Kosovo, living under bombs, under occupation and in constant wartime conditions. It's simply not the way and way to vote this decision, to raise a hand against people living in Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15230	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Kostresh, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15231	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I did not say that Vojvodina was poor and was stopped because of four municipalities in northern Kosovo, but the whole of Serbia. Dear colleague, if you do not see me as someone who is from Serbia, I consider myself to be someone who is from Serbia. If you don't consider Vojvodina an integral part of Serbia, I do. As for your concerns about those 400m euros that have disappeared, we in LSV are very concerned about that money and we have asked several times publicly to investigate it and that everyone involved be arrested. But today is not the topic of the Vojvodina Development Bank, nor is the topic of Vojvodina, the topic of Vojvodina will come up next time on the agenda, today is the topic of Kosovo and Metohija and we should talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15232	The People's MP, Dejan Michael, called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15233	Mr. Kostresh, you pulled a parallel between Sremska Mitrovica and Kosovo Mitrovica, not me. You were talking about the same place as the police chief in Kosovo Mitrovica and in Sremska Mitrovica. In Kosovo, Mitrovica, under this agreement, the police chief will wear Kosovo coat of arms, Kosovo police will write to him, enforce the laws of the Republic of Kosovo, courts will judge under the laws of the Republic of Kosovo and possibly under Sharia law. That is the important difference between Kosovo Mitrovica and Sremska Mitrovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15234	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Kostresh, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15235	Again, I don't understand why you left out my follow-up sentence when I mentioned Kragujevac, Leskovac and Nis. You again, Mr. Michael, separate Vojvodina from Serbia or what's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15236	Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15237	Unlike you, Mr. Kostresh, I do not separate Vojvodina from Serbia, nor have I ever worked on it. My ancestors lived and died for Vojvodina to be in Serbia. I will always fight for it as long as I live and as long as I can breathe, unlike those who have worked all these years the opposite. That's one thing. Secondly, you spoke of the law of Vojvodina, so that you would be very happy that the police chiefs in Vojvodina are elected as police chiefs are elected in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. in Kosovo Mitrovica. That's what you were talking about, not me. Simply, this way of pulling the parallel and saying that Kosovo Serbs and Kosovo are dragging back to Serbia, which would have been head-to-head for GDP only if it didn't have Kosovo, is something that is completely unacceptable. We saw how money was available in Vojvodina, the Agrobank and other banks. We see where the dizzy progress towards Europe ended and how it ended. We are talking today about what laws will apply in Kosovo and Metohija, who will command the police in northern Kosovo and who is in charge. Is Serbia's police minister in charge of police in Kosovo and Metohija? Will the president of Serbia's Supreme Court be head of judges in Kosovo and Metohija? Will the Minister of State Administration be in charge of the president of the Kosovo and Metohija municipality? Who will call the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija? Will Hashim Thaci, Atifete Jahjaga or Serbian Parliament Speaker Nebojsa Stefanovic sign them? These are the topics we're talking about here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15238	The word is Mr. Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15239	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today can take the first step, can take the first move towards the future. We received news from April 19th about reaching an agreement in Brussels between Belgrade and Pristina with relief and hope for a more normal future. According to us, all those who are against tensions should support such an agreement. I am not talking about who should vote, because it is the right of every MP, I am talking about how citizens should feel after reaching this agreement on 19 April. This is the eighth session on Kosovo and Metohija since February 2007. It is certainly atypical and diverse by many things from all the sessions so far on Kosovo and Metohija since 2007. At the last Kosovo session on 12 January 2013, I said that since the summer, since the formation of this government, we have seen it as the beginning of a public confrontation. I spoke on the basis of statements by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and some other members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's what happened. I think very few of those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, just a year ago, thought that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would be having this debate today. That's why I don't think there's much to talk about, and I certainly won't use all the 20 minutes I have as president of the SVM parliamentary group, because I think there's only a few things I need to say. First, it should be made clear and loud, recognition should be given to the members of the negotiating team, and here above all I think of the Prime Minister, Mr Dacic and the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic. That's the first thing. The second thing should be to support this way of policymaking. As a third thing, in my opinion, one rhetorical question should be asked – did Serbia lose something in Brussels on 19 April that was then ours in real life? Since this is a rhetorical question, I don't want to answer this question, but I think it's clear to all of us and we've talked about it many times over the past few years. I don't think the Government of the Republic of Serbia has signed a capitulation, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not sold Kosovo, because only what is ours can be sold. You can't sell something that's someone else's or isn't ours. I think there were other solutions, but not now, there were different solutions to the previous decades. I don't want to blame anyone at all, to any former prime minister, to any former government, but I think all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are aware that nothing has been handed over and sold in April, unfortunately. I say unfortunately because Kosovo and Metohija are not under the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia at least since 1999. I think we should fight for a chance to deal with other issues as a society, state and individual. I think that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect. It is not necessary to talk about the advantages of Serbia's accession to the European Union. I think it's the least important thing today. I think everyone who thinks this agreement is paraphrasing to get Serbia a date is wrong. I hope at least that the agreement is not initialled for Serbia to get a date if it will be in June of the current year. This paraphras is important because it allows us to create a more normal future and to deal with, as a state, society and individuals, those issues that were in the previous years, and even in the previous decades were in the second, third, and who knows what plan. Finally, I would like to say that the SVM supports the government of the Republic of Serbia in its pursuit of the wider autonomy of Serbs in Kosovo and we support the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its pursuit of normal life of 700,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15240	National MP Dusan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15241	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues, I understand and deeply sympathise with a number of people who feel fear today in Kosovo and Metohija, and there is certainly no one in this assembly, or anyone well-intentioned who does not share such a feeling. With great respect, I am listening and I am thinking these days about all the consequences of the legal, international public-law agreement that the prime minister initialled and the government confirmed a few days ago. Also very carefully and with great care, but also with great concern, I read what the SPC stands for as its position and my position on this important and greatest topic we have in this House in recent years. Having full awareness of all this and seeing what is seen as happening at this point, I can say that the MP club Together for Serbia will support the agreement that the Serbian government has accepted because I am fully convinced that this agreement is a sign of responsibility and concern for all those who participated in this now and in the previous governments and in this assembly of parliament and in the previous compositions of the Assembly, responsibility for reality. Politics is a cruelly real thing because politics is life. Life, in my belief, clearly tells where Serbia needs to go and where it has to go. Unfortunately for us, time doesn't work for us. Time hasn't worked for us for decades, and that's why it's important to make difficult and big decisions. I am convinced that now and now, and after this assembly debate and in the months to come, to establish a consensus on a new strategy for Serbia's overall movement and development on all the important things that must also be resolved in different areas of state life, public service reforms and health services and education, state administrations and all of these must be the topics of this Assembly, and people who decide in public life very quickly. Everyone, of course, has to ask himself what would have happened if Ahtisaari's plan had been accepted in the Assembly when he was here on the agenda, so that Serbia would look today. We all need to imagine well the decisions we have made all these years, to make as few bad decisions as possible and as many good decisions as possible in the years to come. There's not much to say here anymore. A painful, difficult one, but a decision that, in my opinion, had no alternative. That's why we're voting for the agreement. I am convinced that we will succeed in society to make a consensus that will open up an opportunity for us to use the natural resources that Serbia has, the great human potential that we have as a people and that hard, step by step, we begin to conquer a better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15242	Thank you. National MP Dragan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15243	Mr. Prime Minister, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Unity of Serbia will support an agreement signed by the government of the Republic of Serbia in Brussels for several reasons. This agreement is a balance between wishes and possibilities. If you are involved in politics, you must apply three things: wisdom, courage and reality. Of course, we used courage when the world needed to see that we were brave, very few times we applied wisdom, and reality never did. What's reality today? Let's not go back to the future. What was our future like? We have a problem in Kosovo for 100 years. Someone was supposed to solve that problem. Maybe it's us who used to use courage and wisdom, not reality. The time has come to take care of the lives of people living on KIM, Serbs living on KIM. I can understand Serbs who were born in KIM and are against this Agreement, but I can't understand someone who was born in some other cities in Serbia. It is much easier from large cities from Serbia to send messages, as we have sent messages when the independence of KIM has been declared – there are many students in KIM, in northern Kosovo, youth from Serbia, come out, defend Serbia and fight against the teeth of armed soldiers of the international community. I don't think this government's politics are like that. On the other hand, the first international representative in charge of respecting Resolution 1244 is Kouchner. We've all been saying, just to leave Kouchner, it'll be much better. Hans Hackerup, nothing. Not to mention all international representatives in charge of respect of Resolution 1244. What countries were these representatives from? Two representatives were from Germany, two from Denmark and two from another country. We have failed for so many years to tell them what reality is and that Serbs have suffered the greatest damage in Kosovo and Metohija. What have we experienced in Kosovo and Metohija since the international community arrived? We expected peace, security for the citizens of Serbia, and we experienced Stari Gacko, Gorazdevac, Obilic, Klečka and 17 March 2004, an exodus of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. How many churches were destroyed then? Has anyone answered today? No, it's not. What should we do now in Serbia, and I am glad that there is a two-thirds majority in parliament for one such national issue and that there has never been a two-thirds majority in parliament for the last 20 years on the national issue. Now if we discuss the referendum and of course the citizens of Serbia should decide on important issues, but sometimes someone runs the government, who heads the state, has to take responsibility, because Serbia no longer has time to wait. How is the international community treating Serbia at the moment? I can't say and I'll never say that NATO is our friend, but that we should work with the NATO Pact, yes, we do. Why? For the first time in this agreement, the definition is that NATO will ban the pact from Kosovo's forces from crossing Ibar and coming to the northern part of Kosovo and that NATO guarantees the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sure they'll respect that, given everything they've done to us in recent years and not to mention the "yellow house" in Albania. That is why this is a key moment for Serbia, for Serbian citizens. What does Russia think? Here, yesterday I returned from Russia, from San Petersburg where I led 13 mayors and 80 owners and company directors. We've had a lot of meetings there. We also spoke with the governor of the Leningrad region, or Leningrad region, with the owners of large capital that imports from all over Europe produce in Russia. None of them told me what this Dacic and the Wolf did. People simply said that at this point it is a reality and that we in Serbia should fight for youth to live for Serbia, not die. I'm sure of all of you I have the greatest right to speak of this. I am the founder of Palma Plus TV, which goes to Kosovo and Metohija every week for 15 years without anyone paying for the TV. But why did we do that? That those living in Serbia know what Thaci, Haradinaj, the Czech Republic and all others who are participants in the persecution of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija say. Not to lie to the citizens of Serbia, some of them resented me at the time that these people were visiting on Palma Plus TV. I know what reality is, it has happened several times that when the TV team dressed Kosovo and Metohija had a lot of problems, two three times they wanted to lose their lives working in the interests of Serbian citizens, to inform Serbian citizens what was happening in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are now looking at who will now lose some percentage of the vote or win, but if you are working, a key and radical issue concerning seven million Serbian citizens, then it is no longer about how many votes you will get in the elections. All the parties sitting here were in power and they know as well as we know that this issue is very difficult to resolve. We've tried everything when it comes to the international community. I'm afraid if this agreement didn't start to happen, it wouldn't be a 1994 picture when we rejected the Z-4 plan in Republika Srpska, then the Storm happened. How many old men, women and children were then killed and Croatian generals were freed from that greatest genocide after World War II. Not only are they released, they celebrate that date as a state holiday. I'm sure the international community and America know very well what all Serbs have been experiencing in recent years. I have a criticism to all those who have been in power so far – how we, we couldn't do it, not win and win the media war, but simply say that the government is shown on BBC and SNN or I don't know which other world media that those who were killed are not Albanians, but Serbs. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic throws out of town. ) Please, Mr. Jovanovic, this is not the time for me to speak now about you and who escaped you, whose houses you brought down, etc. Please be quiet. Please don't let Mr Cedomir Jovanovic throw it to me, because this is a very important issue for Serbia. I'm ready, Cedomir Jovanovic, whenever you want to tell me where you and I can talk about our past, our present and the future. I would like to ask all MPs to vote in favour of this agreement, because this agreement is vital to Serbia's future. There is political stability in Serbia, but it is not enough that we show it to the international community, it is important that what the international community and America have proposed, that Serbia has no great harm, I am just thinking of an agreement signed in Brussels, which is why JS will vote in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15244	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15245	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Dacic, I think you remember very well all those situations in which we differed by speaking about a policy that must be formulated in response to Serbia's problem in Kosovo and Metohija. It doesn't matter that we differed about the cause of this problem, it was always more important for us to be in the minority, every time we talked about what you and your government were doing, your closest associates or president of the Republic today. I must say, today is not Serbia's defeat. That's what we discussed in February 2008, it was the evening session of parliament, Belgrade was on fire, and the LDP here in the Assembly was the only party that spoke differently from you and from everyone else. What we said back then is absolutely true today. No word has been denied. Not a word of time has disputed. Unfortunately, these lost five years can no longer make up for anything. I have to tell you, I don't see any dignity today. One of the first traits and characteristics of a dignified relationship is respect and respect for one another. You told Mr. Prime Minister that these negotiations in Brussels were difficult, the hardest because they were led in the given frameworks. You mentioned the Security Council Resolution, which we brought down from the United Nations level to Brussels. You mentioned Germany's position, but I don't see that it can be accepted as a key argument. Mr Dacic, these were different negotiations, because we couldn't lie to each other anymore, because in this year 2013, the world in which we lived was narrowed down to the only misleading and collisiond with the real one that Serbia escapes from and through this debate and its character today shows that it still doesn't understand it. Nobody's happy about this deal. It's not celebrated as Resolution 1244. No one's even trying to do anything like that. People who listen to us know very well, like all of us here in the O.R., the Kosovo truth. The second question is what to them to a greater or lesser extent, it obliges us, here in the Assembly, some political morality or ethics, and because of that, in addition to everything we think about the DSS, I would take care of the way I talk to that party, because, Mr. Dacic, the Kosovo policy that was bad in our opinion was not the whim of individuals in power, as it is not today your whim policy. She was the expression of a broad national consensus. You all rejected together in February 2007, Ahtisaari's plan. Of course we thought differently. So today is the key question, Prime Minister, what do we do after the vote? Where is the vision of this country in which we will give answers to all the questions that we as a people and as a society were unable to answer, so we were disoriented to believe that we are the victims of all others around us, Slovenians, Croats, Bosnia, Albanians in Kosovo, Montenegro, so when we all left with ourselves, we now find some new Ustashas, balia, Shipara, to some other children today as we did ten or fifteen years ago? That's what we need to deal with, Mr. Prime Minister, and that's your job. This assembly on its head to turn around, Kosovo will be what it is. If we solve it without looking at ourselves, tomorrow we'll meet up with a new Kosovo. You could always count on you and everyone else who dealt with the solution to the Kosovo problem on our support. Our support has a different character than the support of everyone else you're getting today, you know that very well. We're giving it to you, asking you for something others don't ask for, not personal benefit, a place on the board of directors, a local dil, we're asking you to formulate that vision. It's not a government war against the opposition, it's not a weekend raid, it's not a collection of ratings points, by doing what society wants to see, transfer responsibility to an individual, it's the ability to do something this people have never done since when there's been an organized society, to formulate that interest that you mentioned before you got into a fight with the DSS. What interest did we protect? Is that Europe? Why do we need Europe? If you put in a referendum the one you are calling - Serbs, are you for Europe or Kosovo? You know what kind of answer you'd get yourself. A society that's been poisoned for 20 years can't change its attitude so quickly. In the election campaign, you thought differently and spoke differently, both you and Nikolic, and Vukic and the entire ruling coalition. The MP Nikolic, who goes outside and shows photos, is a victim of the circumstances in which he began to deal with politics. Serbia cannot change as well as those who lead it today can. Nikolic may kneel before Srebrenica, but for 20 years he refused to do so. No longer matters what he thinks, thousands sing in the stands "knife, wire, Srebrenica", "kill, slaughter, that Shiptar doesn't exist", so when Vojvodina comes to Belgrade, then they sing "half Hungarian, half Ustasha" that's our country and that's the consequences of that wrong policy. It's no longer a key question of who's responsible, I don't want to lecture anyone about what's been done wrong in the past, but take care, President Dacic, when you say it lightly, why would someone believe it's different today? There is something missing that is necessary to create this necessary mutual trust, the unity that Vukic speaks of yesterday. Do you know when we are unique? Only when we get hurt, like in that story by Andric. We're equal only underground, then it doesn't matter whether you're a Chetnik or a Partizan, it doesn't matter whether you're a Socialist or a Liberal anymore. It's a topic for today's debate. Our people in Kosovo, we made a terrible mistake towards him, a terrible mistake. Our responsibility as a party is that we were not successful, we were not fast enough to come to this debate two or three years ago, five years ago, to convince both you and everyone in Serbia that Ahtisaari's plan should be worked. At that time, we talked about the post-brains, as an amazing feature of our society, mentioned the 1995 Z4, Mr Markovic, not in 1994, mentioned Europe's offer in the early 1990s, membership in the Union for a peaceful solution to the Yugoslav crisis, Dayton and everything else, now don't miss that opportunity. Step out of Milosevic's 1990s policy, which solved the problems without ever asking the cause, so we broke the war in Bosnia and opened the door to the conflict in Kosovo, so we retreated from Kosovo and started killing ourselves here in Serbia. We need to build an idea about that country that we signed this for, the only value of this agreement, and it can't stay aside, it has to be in the first place in every sentence that you say, not the militia and Oliver, we know that, it's the bumps. The first thought must be the chance that exists, which is created, and we must not miss it, the chance to finally start working together to create that country. There will be government, there will be opposition, there will be parties, but that goal we must define, the one whose name you must have signed in Brussels. It's not treason, it's the only reasonable thing to do. Why only politics in our lives would be deprived of it. I'm sorry, every segment of our lives is filled with these inevitable things, when the doctor tells you – it has to be cut, you don't ask if it hurts, but it is cut. Serbia must never give up on the rights it needs, and it draws them from the space of Kosovo and Metohija, never. Honestly, those rights have always been the least controversial. Something else was the problem -- the inability to live with each other, to make a country out of Serbia that is not to be left. Our children are leaving her. The guarantees that are given, so maybe they're a guideline and a direction that we should follow to get to that clear goal. We are a party that has been pushing for Serbia's NATO membership since its founding. Mr. Dacic, tell me, did the time come to think about it? So if we join that NATO, Serbia will be a guarantee of this agreement, not Rasmussen or someone who will instead be the Secretary-General. If the Albanians enter before us, then they will do a job there that we do not want to do because we are incompetent, powerless and hypocritical. I resented you, Mr. Markovic, hypocrisy and hypocrisis, not the willingness to vote in favour of this agreement. Remember what we discussed in the previous debate on Kosovo. Who did you mention to me? A dead girl in a bombing? Is that my sin or ours? Never do it again, not because we can't stand it, but because no one in Serbia should ever see it again. I won't criticise you because you're voting for this. As for those who dispute the Agreement, respect at least one fact, which is a fact that describes them as people who are rare in Serbian politics in the firmness of their commitment. What's the problem with such an attitude is actually disregarding and ignoring everything outside of politics. She's specific because she deals with the lives of people who are outside us. There is a protest in front of the Serbian Parliament today. We have to answer that. We shouldn't ignore it. If you need to go to Kosovo, don't go there alone. That's where the Assembly delegation has to go. There must go a wider circle of people than those who are in power today, because that's not your personal question and your personal problem. It must be clear to every man in Serbia that we have changed the course of the country, that we have decided to cut those proud knots, to serve that life that you mentioned. Well, we never respected that. Three million Serbs have disappeared in the last hundred years in wars. Find one people who has suffered so much in our environment. Three million. A million's gone in the last 15-20 years. It is true that they write to you from Austria and America. The most extreme attitudes and criticisms came from that world. That's all true, but it's not an answer-- leave it alone, so come here and be crazy. The answer is something else - we fight that no one is looking for their happiness outside Serbia anymore. That's why you have LDP support. We don't think we're going to cram you with the catastra question, the books, who's going to be the head of the department, who's going to put the chief of police in the community, and what's the meaning of the regional chief of police? It's clear all that. If Serbia is able to change, to find those friends that it has always had, and today no one understands it, then the position of this country will be different. What you lack in your speech, Mr. Dacic, is a new relationship with Albanians, a new relationship with that people. On that plan, we need to step out of those hundred years of bad luck. We won't find our peace if we build it on this larger antagonism. Our problem today is that you can talk to Thaci and you can shake hands, but that's still not a description of the relationship between our two societies. We need to work more on that plan, so once we establish mutual relations, which are what France and Germany are today, then we will find our Europe, not our date. This is so little for what we have in front of us today – a chance to create a new Serbia in which you will be both the government and the opposition and the parent, but calmly because he knows that his child lives in a normal country, and that is what you are bound by all that you have done in the past, not just yourself, but everyone else. That way we should talk, not break each other's necks, because we need every man. The criticisms addressed to the agreement, not from political circles, but from those who have always misused influence in politics, should not be kept silent. That's what we need to talk about openly. When the Assembly interferes with Sinod's decisions, then Sinod has the right to interfere with parliament's decisions. While our relations are arranged on the basis on which they are defined today, then the Church of the Heavenly Empire, and you, Dacic, by the end of the term, this real world in which in seven days you need to pay someone, you need to give someone a pension, you need someone who has gone to the military to serve your country to provide safe life and as little work as possible, and to the people who have stayed in Kosovo a strong country not for their back, but for his presence. It's an LDP message to you and we vote for it, for nothing else. There's no need to forgive each other for what happened and lick the wounds. That's completely pointless. But don't shut up about what's the point. It's the least we've ever talked about. We must not leave this session as some poor, pathetic, eternal losers, but as humans, even if we were naked and barefoot, the poorest people of Europe, a generation of eternal losers, as people who believe in their right to a new beginning. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15246	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15247	Mr. Jovanovic, you are the last man in this House who can assess what I am doing and whether I will vote for an agreement or not. I remember very well what I said back then at that session, that the people of your ranks, I didn't say to Cedomir Jovanovic personally, you know very well who these people are, called on NATO to bomb Serbia to sign the capitulation. It's true and it's history that can't be forgotten. Please don't challenge me. I think today's work is very important for the citizens of Serbia and to talk about what is true. I'm tired of hearing lies. When it was difficult for Serbia, the vast majority in this parliament fought for the truth against the NATO Pact and against NATO bombs. People were on bridges to show NATO the pact that they were ready to die for the truth and that NATO would stop bombing Serbia. Please don't challenge me in the future, so we don't go into deeper controversy, because I don't think this is the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15248	The word is made by MP Cedomir Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15249	We're not just gonna end it, Mr. Markovic. So, Mr. President, Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have injured dignity. You allowed Mr. Markovic to present a brutal and terribly rude lie, that someone from the LDP called on NATO bombings and NATO bombs in which children in this country were killed. Well, either let Mr. Markovic say who it is, or let him cover his ears and keep quiet for the rest of his life in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15250	Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15251	Since you are some new paratrooper in this House, then there was DOS, from the ranks of DOS, or Coalition Together. Let me tell you, those people who said that and called the NATO pact aren't among the living, and I don't want to talk about the dead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15252	Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15253	I will not deny this who is a paratrooper, who is not a paratrooper, Mr. Markovic – Palma knows a lot about it. He knows a lot about stone, discipline, erdutu and things like that, we won't mention it to Mr. Markovic, since it's partly about dead people. Some have been killed, unfortunately by the Serbian hand, so there is no need to deny Mr. Markovic. But these ignorant attempts of yours, to question the limits of patience, may be characteristic and perhaps you can do so at your five-minute sessions of the Jagodina City Assembly, and then you all collectively head to your zoo or aqua park. This here is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not a road mechanism, and act with due respect and dignity towards this assembly, especially the political party that today offers and supports this Agreement. In doing so, look for a chance for yourself and some kind of redemption. Don't keep your head through the wall, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15254	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15255	Dear Chairman, I call on article 107. Rules of Procedure. I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure by not warning the MP Markovic, who severely violated the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr Markovic is in his stand, forgetting that today we are talking about a very important topic, the topic of Serbia's future, the future of Serbs in Kosovo, and that we should talk about this topic in a way that we do not touch any wounds from the future. Mr. Markovic's associations were clear to whom his accusations were concerned. I would say that it is pathetic and sad, and I call upon you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the future and to warn the MPs who are referring in this way to the dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15256	I really don't know who Mr. Markovic meant, but he didn't mention anyone specifically and as far as addressing the National Assembly, I've always asked all the MPs to take care of dignity, because it's the dignity of all of us. Unfortunately, in these moments, the MPs involved in this debate are using a dictionary that is a little bit sharper and apparently carried the atmosphere during this debate. I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the debate on the subject. So far, the debate has been on the subject under discussion. Whether we have these or those attitudes is a matter of every MP. Please, let's get back to something that's important. Here you are, Mr. Markovic, entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15257	I don't know, what bothers the gentleman that the session of the Jagodina City Assembly takes five minutes, 11 points, five minutes. These are the points that talk about bringing investors that in a year we brought four investors, three from Italy, one investor from Russia, to hire 1200 people, to prepare the agenda 10 days before and to learn about the agenda and the position and opposition, which is on the agenda. Perhaps it bothers you, sir, because when you had the president of the assembly, if you say "a," and "a" is not on the agenda, you get an immediate warning, that there were no topics of vital importance and that there was no Rules of Procedure like now, that every last Thursday of the month the entire government came to say what it was doing, maybe it bothers you? Perhaps you are bothered that every Tuesday, you can ask whatever you want and Dacic, and all the other ministers and Velimir Ilic, perhaps it bothers you, efficiency in the work? Are the citizens of Serbia in order for something to last for five minutes and not cost the state or are Serbian citizens for something called one item of the agenda, to last four or five days, and for that every day, the committees receive journals? If it bothers you, let it bother you, I won't change the way you work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15258	Mr. Andric, you've been to the Rules of Procedure or what? Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15259	Insulting the Parliament's dignity, of course, Mr. Chairman, by you. The attitude that Zoran Djindjic sought to bomb Serbia is not a political stance, you know? That's the difference between democracy and violence. That's not a political attitude. That's a lie. You're like the president of the assembly to deny such a lie, because we can't talk like that here. You may be young or under-experienced, so you can't figure out who someone's talking about, but that doesn't make your responsibility any less. Ambassador Markovic meant Zoran Djindjic, the country's premium, which was killed in action -- stop The Hague, by criminals. He was killed for such lies, for his alleged responsibility to summon bombs. You today, if you treat your fear of these ahead with an attack on us, believe me, it won't have a happy ending, because we won't be silent. If you do not know any arguments to answer the debate, but you are calling for violence, indirectly speaking like that, you justify those who should commit violence by thinking that you have solved the matter, by moving from yourself to someone else, then we have a problem and then you did not understand any of what Cedomir Jovanovic was saying. You know why it's dangerous? It's not a matter of our understanding and your understanding. That means you're just confirming that. Because you didn't understand four years ago why we're telling you not to reject Ahtisaari's plan, we're in this situation today. He doesn't understand what we're saying today, he's asking us where we're gonna be in four years and what you're gonna have to accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15260	Mr. Andric, let me tell you that you are the first to mention the name Zoran Djindjic in this session. I'm really shocked by what you said. It really shocks the way you said it and the way you try to pick some political point in a very inappropriate way. I won't pay any attention to this. No one here mentioned Zoran Djindjic in a negative context or his name, nor would I allow it. I really didn't hear anyone mention the name. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15261	Of course I didn't mention any names. It seems that Mr. Andric is some sort of grandmother of Wang who knows in advance what I'm going to say. Mr. Zoran Djindjic and I were very good friends. That can also be confirmed by Cedomir Jovanovic, if he will tell the truth. He wasn't just killed, in past wars or in what was happening, one man but more people. It particularly bothers me when I want to, to get political points on a false story and to God something, to have someone worry about the citizens of Serbia. Please, Mr. Andric, you said I was lying, I'm not going to say you're lying, but you're not telling the truth, you're not going into controversy with me. I know Chedomir sent you messages to replicate with me. He's out. If you want us to turn this congregation into something that is not like this moment, please don't do it. But if you want, I'm ready to tell you all about you, and you tell everything about me. I ask you to continue the agenda where we left off, Mr. President of the Assembly, and let some of the midwives not pick up and make them feel what I was thinking or what I was about to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15262	Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15263	It's my advertising of the Rules of Procedure, members of the 27th and 107th. So, 10 insults and MPs, especially Mr. Andric, of all LDP MPs, you've allowed this strange man from Jagodina. Would you like to see my phone, Mr. Markovic? Would you like to take a look at my phone? Well, they're not MPs of the LDP activists of the Serbian Guard. Maybe that's how Arkan texted you, if you could read the messages at all at the time. I believe that Mr Markovic, with grief, remembers the time when Natasa Micic chaired this assembly, because at that time Mr Markovic Palma in the National Assembly building called for a coup and urged the military and police to enter the National Assembly, took over, took power along with those who protested then in front of the National Assembly, as they protested today. Well, if Mr. Markovic, with that change of attitude, with the fact that you weren't punished while in this country you called for a coup and a military coup, you have a problem, you have to solve it with your safety. Don't call the giraffes or the grandmother's vange to help.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15264	Mrs. Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15265	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 27. So you're the president of this assembly here, and you're obliged to chair and to actually take care of what direction the debate is going. You have certain MPs here, as we just heard, talking about some grandmother vangams, telling lies, talking about late Prime Minister Djindjic. You pretend you don't hear. You, Mr. President, obviously some things you still don't understand. It is indeed clear to me that this big turn, which was obviously made in the politics of the Republic of Serbia, is simply not clear to you. It's very difficult for you to listen to today about something that you never dreamed you'd listen to once. That is why you do not manage and do not manage by having the right as speaker of parliament to deny certain replicas. You have not done so, and these are the replicas that are being insulted and the LDP, the LDP MPs are being insulted, the late Prime Minister Djindjic is being insulted. So it's all about what happened in the 1990s, which is why Serbia is present and why Serbia is today discussing whether it lost Kosovo or didn't lose Kosovo. Today’s debate is the result of all that has been wrong and of what has not been determined responsibility and has not been discussed responsibility. Let's talk about responsibility. Let's talk about the responsibility and MPs who presented today those things that were not to be presented, which is what concerns the late Prime Minister Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15266	I would really ask you to stop using the name Zoran Djindjic. No one mentioned him by his name, to you, absolutely no one, and you can see it in the stenograms. The second thing, of course, I allow you the right to present any political opinion, including my work. Whether or not I am able to manage it will be assessed by most MPs and, of course, citizens in the next election and will show clearly what they think of the policy represented by the party I belong to and what they think of the party you belong to. But here in Parliament we have a agenda and we need to talk about the agenda. I think that's the most important point in this session. Mr. Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15267	I remember very well that I invited the army and the police to carry out a coup and I don't regret what I did back then. Why did I do it then? Nenad Milic, from the scene: On what basis does he have a word? )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15268	Don't throw it away. You're not here to lead the session. You don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15269	Why did I do it then? Because it was a sale of factories and businesses in Serbia, because over a million people lost their jobs for three years, because it was promised that we would join the EU, that six billion dollars stood at the border, just to win some others, would be OK. When it's been three years since the promise, and from day to day, it's 100 to 1,000 out of work, then one day I came out and said what I said. I had the right to say so in my Rules of Procedure, but after that, at the board of directors' session, I was most of the votes, and with disrespect for the Statute of the Serbian Parliament, I was then away from the session. If I was right, they showed citizens. Immediately after a month, there were extraordinary elections and out of two-thirds of the MPs, as many as the group had in power and in power at the time, they received very few votes. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15270	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15271	Your Honor, I'd like you to just listen to me, and then communicate with Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15272	I've been listening very carefully since the first moment. There's no need for this intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15273	Thank you. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You just said you needed to talk about the agenda. That's why you violated article 106. The Rules of Procedure, which says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. I know what part of the agenda and the parliamentary group I belong to also knows the point of the agenda, as well as others. I didn't know the point of the Jagodin agenda was, I didn't know that the agenda point was dead, deceased, DOS, or the coalition stayed together. I didn't know the agenda point was Zoran Djindjic. So I ask you to remind the People's MPs that they are coming forward and that today, at this session, they are talking about what is really the point of this session's agenda and that you are more of a waste than what the citizens of Serbia are looking forward to today and that you are not giving material to those who now by name and last name call the MPs of the National Assembly, calling them traitors. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15274	I just did it in my previous address. Mr. Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15275	I agree you need to hang up. This topic certainly exceeds the importance of our mutual debates, but its essence, unfortunately, is not the essence of this debate in some personal impatience between us. I'm sorry if you don't see that. The theme is that when hundreds of people send messages, accusing them of betraying the prime minister of Serbia or the first deputy prime minister of the government, when fans, thinking they're doing something positive, attack the head of our parliamentary group. The cause of all these things is precisely this behavior and this kind of debate, in the same way as accusing her of treason from those outside. If you don't see it today and you stay silent about it, it just means that these things will keep happening. We never, as an LDP, shared people on patriots and traitors. In everything that someone was trying to do, we were trying to find some positive motive and intending to improve the situation, but we were patient enough to say, waiting for the same thing to happen to those who spread hate, I can say freely, and impatience. Despite your understanding of the fear you have today, fearing responsibility, for that change of opinion, between the moment you went to the election and today. I'm just asking you to be so honest, you don't point that anger at us. If you can't, let me tell you something, how the repression grows, grows and resists. We're here. We're not going to get away from you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15276	Mr. Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15277	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, right at the beginning to point out that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will give full support to the Brussels Agreement between Belgrade and Pristina. I have to go back a little bit, not much. Until six months ago, we were passive observers of events in Kosovo and Metohija. Then they made their own state, included Serbs in power, and we watched it, and there was nothing we could do. Now we're in a situation where we've come into an active position, that we can look for solutions and we've come up with one solution. It is a solution that I think is very positive and I also think that we should give recognition to our negotiators. First of all, the Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic, and then the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, Vice President Snezana Grubjesic and the other members of the negotiating team, and then those who were against them, because they had great courage and responsibility to accept these solutions as they are, but we are assessing the best possible at the moment. Also, I have to point out that this is one breaking point for Serbia. If she really is, the debate here so far doesn't show. The thing that bothers me the most is the double arches. On the one hand, we say, yes, we want a new Serbia, a better Serbia, and on the other hand we are doing everything we can to undo it. Can we go safely in this Serbia, live safely? Do we have jobs? Are we opening jobs? Are we talking about ordinary topics? We keep going back to history. We keep going back to some myths that don't give Serbia better and more. Fighting for Serbia, we must make it better, more orderly, economically stronger, and that is only possible if we become part of the European Community. We must also fight that in Kosovo our fellow citizens and those who live there have European rights and that is where we can help them the most. We must also have the strength and courage to say – yes, we must also discuss the historic reconciliation between the Serbian and Albanian people. Why? We live next door, we have to travel, we have to trade, we have to work. Until six months ago, it was really impossible for our prime minister to shake hands with the prime minister of Kosovo, and that was it. It's been ten times. This had to be done because Serbia must take a step forward and become a country that will be arranged. Serbia is one state that is currently unsettled, which has many areas where it needs to be arranged. Whatever we're going to do in this Serbia to reform, to fix, there's always those forces that they're going to say -- no, they can't do that. They're those stakeholders we have to fight. If we start reforming education, then we will immediately hear from stakeholders who will say – no, it is not good for Serbia. If we go to health care, which we know is in a catastrophic situation, then the stakeholders will tell us again – no, you can't go into reform because it's not good. If we keep burying ourselves in trenches, if we don't move forward, then there'll be nothing of us. When I say this is a turning point, I think this government has shown strength, responsibility and the possibility of Serbia changing. It won't go easy. We must turn to ourselves, to our values, to order the earth, to see what our advantages are and what we can do. We can't keep talking - no, no, no. We're not strong enough, we don't have the strength. What we have resources, what we have personnel, what we have knowledge, we have to make maximum use of. We can't do it ourselves, we can only do it if we change our laws in accordance with the European Law Agenda. Right in that part, then we can move forward. Such a strong Serbia will then be tempting to everyone in the environment, and thus we too will be able to provide full support to all those in our environment, to respect European laws. But the same European laws, behaviour and manners must apply in Serbia as well. If they're not valid in Serbia, then I don't know what we're doing or who we're working for. Yesterday I was both in Pancheva and Vrsec and the first and the basic question was – how free to walk this country? How do we get out at night, how do we get the kid to go to school, and we're sure he'll come home? So in Serbia, we have to go back to ourselves, to ordinary everyday things, where we were, where we knew and knew. I think we know and we know. We've had a country before. Let's make a country that's gonna be strong. Everyone around us has made states. We're the only ones in a situation where we don't have a strong one and we're always going through some parts of it, and that, first of all, is just between ourselves. We don't need others. It's the best we can do on our own. So let's turn to ourselves, to our values and move forward. Once again, I stress, we will give full support to this agreement as the beginning of resolving Kosovo's problem. There will be more challenges and more problems, and I think this coalition is capable of moving on, that we have shown courage and determination, regardless of the consequences. This coalition has shown it and I think it should continue to do it the way it did. Only as brave and determined can we have a better country and live in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15278	MP Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15279	Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are on the verge of reaching a historic agreement with Kosovo Albanians. For me, it is a sure sign that Serbia is finally turning to the future, that it ceases to be trapped in the myths of the past and that the era of responsible politics against the political adventures and wanderings that have kept us from creating a modern European society for decades. This agreement is neither victory nor defeat. He, I hope, is the ultimate epilogue of the eternal conflict that has hindered both nations. The Kosovo issue has been abused through history, and today, by irresponsible politicians on the Serbian and Albanian sides. The harmful consequences of these abuses and manipulations were both peoples, and the benefits of criminalized quasipatriots alone. The United Regions of Serbia provide full support for the Kosovo Albanian agreement. We have been pushing for such an agreement since we've been on the political scene. I would remind you that in 2003, under the "Serbian First", we stressed the need to reach a historic agreement with Kosovo Albanians. That's when we talked about the need to end a 15-year period and get the political elite ready to deal with the problems. That's why we've been fiercely attacked. We never dreamed it would be a decade to finally form a political elite ready to take responsibility and face problems, but better ever than never. The government has shown that it is ready to take responsibility and that it does not want any problem to be pushed under the carpet, but it is going to meet and solve it in the interests of citizens, although it would have been far better if we had the courage to reach an agreement with Kosovo Albanians ten years ago and we are already a member of the EU. Today is not worth moaning over missed opportunities, should be turned forward, in the future and run towards the EU as quickly as possible. The agreement we have today is not perfect, nor is it in the full interest of Serbs, but what is important is that it does not in any way mean Kosovo's recognition as an independent state. At this historic moment, it represents the best possible protection for all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and guarantees that all people in Kosovo and Metohija will live, trade, travel and turn to development. This agreement opens a clear perspective for Serbia's European future, hence both Kosovo and Metohija. If each country's goal is to ensure safety and a better life for its citizens, then the decisions we make these days with regard to Kosovo and Metohija are certainly in the function of these objectives. The final status of Kosovo is a question that will be resolved in the future, not so close, and that is why we need to provide a framework in Kosovo by then, which will be a guarantee for the safe and perspective of the everyday life of Serbs in the province. As we are now largely defined to join the community of European peoples because we are aware that in that community we will achieve far faster development and prosperity and become a modern democratic society, so deeply I believe that one day most citizens in Kosovo will recognise Serbia in the same way as a community that will best achieve their perspective and a better life. It sounds both unreal and unrealistic today, but for which a decade can be completely feasible. Such a scenario will depend solely on Serbia. If it becomes a modern democratic society and gives each individual and every social group a chance, it will thus become a magnet for every normal man who wishes his family well. Why today, millions of people from an undeveloped world, almost from all continents, are flocking to developed countries of Europe such as Germany, France, the Netherlands, Britain, Italy, Sweden and others? Just for the reasons already mentioned -- a better perspective for life. These people are ready to become full citizens of developed European countries. So one day and most citizens of Kosovo, why won't one day and most of the citizens of Kosovo see a clear perspective and a better future in Serbia? I don't think that's possible. Although today this agreement relates exclusively to the continuation of European integration and the acquisition of a famous date, it is necessary to clarify some things there. Do we need such an agreement and that there is no date and negotiations with the EU? Of course it is. We have a historic agreement with Albanians in Kosovo better than a historical conflict with them. I believe that's what most on the Albanian side think. I'm sure that's what Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija think. Then what's the problem? The problem is delusions, myths, manipulations around Kosovo and Kosovo. We've always lacked wisdom, patience, and reason, and we've had too much passion, emotion, exclusiveness. The reconciliation of two peoples in Kosovo and co-existence are conditions of lasting peace and stability in Kosovo and Metohija. If that's not there, there's no normal life. I believe that reconciliation is possible and that a common life of Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija is possible, and that is why anyone who interprets this agreement as a simple replacement of Kosovo for the date does not understand or does not want to understand this act as an expression of the greatest responsibility for the future of all Serbs in Kosovo, but also for the rest of Serbia's territory. By getting a date, we will not eliminate all disputes over the continuation of our European path. The real challenges are just beginning, but what is important is that no one sets before Serbia any political and other conditions that no other country has ever had. It is the government's obligation to ensure that this type of EU guarantee continues in the negotiations. As for the challenges and obstacles, they will hopefully refer exclusively to 35 chapters that will open and close during EU integration. The process is difficult and tiring, but its flow will make Serbia better in every respect. State regulation in a modern way of democratisation, better judicial authority, effective fight against corruption, investment, jobs, better education, health and state administration will be the results of Serbia's European path. The date of the negotiations is only the beginning, i.e. a formal introduction to a EU negotiation process that will take several years, perhaps a decade. Today, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we adopt a report on the process of political and technical dialogue with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, with the intervention of the EU, including in the process of implementing the agreements reached. When reading this report in detail, it is clear that much has been done both in the technical and political parts of the agreement. This kind of dialogue at this level was unimaginable a few years ago. The fact itself speaks for a great deal of progress that no one but the EU can ignore. It itself is involved in the process both as a mediator and as a guarantee of the agreements reached. So, the result is here and this is an opportunity to give recognition for what has been done to so far to all negotiators, both to those of this government and to those of the previous one. We also have an obligation to ask the government, or our negotiators, to ensure, above all, the full guarantee of the survival of Serbs in Kosovo, the return of all those who wish to return and preserve the institutions of the Serb community with all competencies and its smooth functioning. I firmly believe that this agreement, together with others in the series that we will achieve, will be documents that we will call for in the future, as we are today calling for Dayton or Resolution 1244 and that there will be a guarantee of stability and preservation of the Serb community and our sanctity in Kosovo and Metohija. It is clear from all of this that the URS parliamentary group will fully accept the government's report on the current course of negotiations with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. By accepting this report, each of us MPs shows a high degree of responsibility to the citizens of Serbia and an understanding of the historic moment it is in. I'm sure we're voting today for a more peaceful future for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15280	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15281	Dear People's MPs, respected members of the government, when you adopted the Declaration and the Platform on 13 January this year, you did not say that the next session of the National Assembly, the one to discuss the Report, will be held when it is over. In fact, you think it's all over and that's why you called this session. You were required by the Declaration to call meetings on reports concerning what was said, the course of these talks or the course of these talks. You had more opportunities to do so when an agreement was made on liaison officers, when a deal was made on customs revenues or when a deal was made on crossings and border management. It was all about these conversations of yours, but you didn't call the assembly for reasons you didn't want to talk about it publicly. You had information that you gave to the public. The media favored you because they were under the control of the Western forces, and then they blew into the same pumpkin, and therefore the congregation was not the right form to discuss it. On the other hand, Hashim Thaci went out to the Kosovo Assembly every time one of these stages I mentioned ended. He had at least three to four dates. He respected some form. It was easier for him because he knew that everything was going well for him. The Serbian side is dropping. He had something to brag about. I'm saying it was easier for him, but it's a fact that he's fulfilled unlike a commitment that you haven't fulfilled. You know the DSS was against the Platform. We were saying at the time that we were against the platform because it advocates a large Serb autonomy in an independent Kosovo. The platform, in short, advocated some regional organisation of Serbs with institutions and competencies that would belong to a region in today's regional states of Europe. It is a high volume of autonomy, but we were against it because it all meant independent Kosovo and this institution within an independent Kosovo. In some ways you suggested in your platform some plan that might be called Ahtisaari plus. When you faced Mrs. Catherine Ashton and Thaci, in fact, you faced their proposals that mostly went to the Ahtisaari minus. They were not ready to give the Serbs what Ahtisaari allowed them to find themselves in Ahtisaari. So, on the plan that was proposed here. Those elements in the agreement that give some rights to Serbs are taken over from the plan, although not all the rights that exist in Ahtisaari's plan are given, but the majority of these rights are from the document. You negotiated in a strange way or in the way that the mediators staged it, you found yourself somewhere in half, which is a negotiating goal, but by setting one minimum that didn't even give what Ahtisaari was giving to Serbs, so that you could finally say that you got something. In the end, we remember on 20 March and 2 April when it was said in public that the agreement was not possible just because Thaci conditioned point 9 to some new point 14. Point 9 is the point of police and regional command. Point 14. We are required not to interfere with international organisations. That's what big dwarves are about, as you know. There was a question about who wanted to sign, who didn't want to. The press reported that Dacic and Mrs Grubjesic were for signing and that Vukic prevented it. The spear broke for ten days. When he came in 19, we saw that there was one mini-crisis, a small change, that article 9 remained, and that article 14 had been changed, that you or we would not interfere on the way to Europe, the EU, and not in international organisations. Namely, what did you get here? You have admitted more, not less, because the EU is more than an international organisation. If one recognises or does not interfere with Kosovo on the way to the EU, it will be easier to recognise that it does not interfere with Kosovo on its way to some international organisations. In the end, Kosovo will have to become a member of the Council of Europe before it becomes an EU member. Look at the provisions of the founding agreement with which the organisations are opening accession negotiations, and these negotiations will open Kosovo on the basis of this agreement. So that used to be a member of 310, and now he's a member of 217. The EU Treaty. On the basis of Article 14, which you have received regional police, the selection of commanders, you have allowed Kosovo to participate as a state in the ubiquitous accession negotiations and implementation of the agreement. So let's not joke about these things. That's the way things are, and that's where you made one, so to speak, a big public story about some fight. You have received this regional commander who exists under Ahtisaari's plan and is not the only regional commander, as you can see, and if you read the careful agreement, you have the other regional commanders mentioned in article 10. So nothing's been won, and the big halabuca is up. What I'm saying is that as negotiators, you were either gullible or you were acting on the already established scenario. I think it's something else. I don't think of you as gullible people, I have experience in politics, and I know you as politicians. It's actually one scenario that was made a long time ago. You've been acting on him with little obstacles that were made to make this game of difficulties, resistances, severe pains, heavy crosses on your back, etc. in public. In the end, you went to ore and we got the deal we got. At the very least, Mr. President, as a citizen, I can be very suspicious of your role in this matter. Believe me, when I talk about this scenario, a few months ago a public affair was opened about your communications with representatives of the Saric clan, you and your associates, Lazarevic and others were mentioned. I must say, you didn't deny it in a convincing way. When it comes to these things where people's lives depend on the whole parts of the territory, a man has a great right to personal consideration of the credibility of people who negotiate and their difficulties to reject all that Western powers offer. I've been negotiating with the Western representatives and I know about how it is. As for SNS, since he came to power, he has invested a large loan, a major investment in proving the DS that the West will embrace them more than they do. There was somehow a competition when their representatives, representatives of the authorities from their ranks, faced this negotiating situation, then it was the main thing to strengthen this credibility, maintain and prove to their opponent, DS, that there were no problems and that they were even greater favorites of the West than that. Why am I talking about the scenario you agreed to and finished the job that way? When it comes to the agreement itself, I'm going to say a few sentences and show that this is something that could have been accepted in 2007. He's completely tied to Ahtisaari's plan. I'd like one of the negotiators to tell me what his point is different or coming out of those frameworks and those rights that were given at the time. I can remind you, in 2007, we received finished text in February, early February, a very complex document on some 70 pages. The assembly has declared that we can negotiate. We've been negotiating for ten, fifteen days, and we've put 500 and some amendments on that document, but none of them have been accepted. They are wrong, as we heard today, who say they should have worked on Ahtisaari's plan. If 500 amendments and it's not enough to prove it was done on it, then I don't know what it is. Namely, it was a plan that was premeditated, therefore, as an ultimate plan from which they do not deviate a single step. That was the problem with those negotiations. No amendments have been accepted. What were we supposed to expect? At the first summit meeting on 10 March 2007, Martti Ahtisaari said – I am not interested in compromise in this matter, I am interested in the solution, I have offered a solution. You accepted that five years later or six years later. So this document in each part of it reflects this document, and we can now pretend that we got something, because maybe they could have killed us in Brussels, but believe it's a disaster for the Serbs because they have to give up their institutions under which they lived and their countries whose institutions they are. Point 2 states that legal guarantees are due law and constitutional law. I'm sorry, it's meant to be right in Kosovo. The original expression of what someone translated to you as a measure of law, so applicable lo, is applicable law and constitutional law. The applicable law is the right to live, which applies to KIM, Kosovo law. It's a guarantee and you signed it. Then, the structures will be based on the statutes of existing associations of Kosovo municipalities. Those who do not know, one who has not read Ahtisaari's plan, for the first time faces an association of municipalities in Kosovo. These associations were made under Kosovo's constitution and under the law on local self-government, and the law under Marty Ahtisaari's plan. What's that for? Then again, when it comes to jurisdiction, European fields and local self-government, Kosovo laws, what they define as the jurisdiction of municipalities, this community will be able collectively, as it is said here, to accomplish. As for explicitly economic affairs, education, social policy, etc., the community will only be, as it says here, fully supervised. So, both these institutions and those powers now fall under the laws of Kosovo, and we will see how this will continue to apply. Then, the regional police commander. We see that there are throughout Kosovo in these regions, by these associations there are regional commanders. What did we get here? What's the big story, what was I talking about? The judicial justice system. It was said here that we would fight for the choice of judges, that municipalities would elect judges in the basic and district court. You have no words on the choice of judges in this document. You only have one structure on the Court of Appeal, on panels and headquarters in Mitrovica, which you can find in Ahtisaari's plan. Then, elections under Kosovo's laws, of course, elections for municipalities, too, await them. Finally, this famous point 14). Please, by your positive signature, you guarantee that Kosovo as a state, because otherwise it cannot enter into this process of the SAA – the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. That's our approval. That's the signature you signed. Therefore, your story about getting something for the Serbs, it's not really convincing, and we can figure out how much we want here, whether you have recognised Kosovo or not, we claim that you are, you claim that you are not, but in this debate, in this area, the Serbs from Kosovo are the most important ones. They know well what awaits them, and when they read this document, it is clear to them what their future is. They will live under the institutions and the laws of Kosovo which certainly has very clear, so to speak, historical goals both in relation to Serbs and the SPC and cultural heritage and material goods, etc. If they had, as people who lived with them and with Albanians as neighbours, good experiences, maybe someone would accept it. It's quite clear that south of Ibra it's simply one coercion that people agreed to preserve naked skin, but these worse, north of Ibra, they weren't really forced to do that, i.e. will be forced at the moment when Serbia applies what you signed in Brussels. We're safe, and I want part of my presentation to dedicate this matter, that this agreement will not and cannot be applied, no matter how much the MP here has supported it. At the very least, this debate today, the debate between MPs, if only the subject of this agreement were to be held, it would be very clear on the disputes. This is where MPs, in this assembly, are divided into those who will vote for the agreement, for the report, and those who will vote against, no matter which party they belong to. That is why, Mr. President of the Assembly, I would like to make a proposal based on Article 131 to hold the vote by reference to the call. That's the proposal I'm taking the chance to make. Let the Assembly plead, but I would ask, indeed, that MPs in this matter do not hide behind groups of MPs, but with their consciousness and security let them vote in favour and against this agreement. I tried to give an interpretation that I'm sure is the case, and it turns around, fully agrees with what Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija feel like their future under this agreement. Our only hope and chance is that he doesn't implement himself. If it's signed, it's signed, you've done an act of betrayal, in the right sense of words, of national interest, you've got rid of that ballast, these territories, these people, even though you'll help them, but you'll be able to do it to the Serbs in Romania, Hungary, Bosnia, Croatia, etc., when I say -- Bosnia, I mean the Federation, and that's that. I can also call out the actions of the people of Kosovo and Metohija. They have made their position clear on this matter, more than once, since that referendum on the 2012 Meeting, and through the outing of the local elections, where they were scheduled, and then several times lately, while negotiations lasted, so – all as one. That's important, there are a lot of parties there, as well as here in this House, but all of them as one said it -- we don't accept it, we know what our destiny is, we know what our history is, what our future is. In a statement from the rally, at the last point of that statement, they said they would initiate a referendum on this matter. So this referendum must be held as a folk initiative. The Constitution allows it, and I ask you, since you, gentlemen of the government, have done what you could and what you wanted, signed this agreement, not to interfere in this referendum, in terms of its initiation. Of course, the state authorities have to do their part here, and the Assembly itself, but it's a people's initiative. It is an initiative of a people who disagree with government decisions and it has the right to do so and does not only have the right to a people's initiative, has the right to civil disobedience and many other actions that are fully in line with modern legal codes. We're talking about a referendum here as a people's initiative. The referendum will be called after the rally that they will initiate, and I am saying this because I spoke to them and because they informed me, as they were yesterday at the talks with the prime minister and Deputy Prime Minister in Belgrade on 10 May this year, in the Republic Square. We expect that a huge number of people will come to support Serbs from Kosovo and their initiative, followed by gathering signatures and those actions ahead to hold such a referendum. It is necessary to clarify this matter in a way that both the Constitution and the law allow. If the situation arises that the authorities, including these representative bodies, such as the Assembly, are largely in favour of this agreement, and against the interests of the Serbs, which is quite possible, as we can see, then the dispute is moved to another address, which is the dispute between the people and the authorities, between the people and its representative bodies. We know that most of the parties that make up today's ruling coalition were not voted by the people who would have done so if they knew this was going to happen. That's why this referendum is important. He is a correction of those previous elections, when it comes to Kosovo, and a correction of their results. That is why we believe this is an important act for Serbia and that it will actually solve this fundamental problem. I want to tell you MPs, and above all, to the citizens who are watching this transfer, to announce the way in which it will be peaceful and legal, these are my two main accents -- peacefully and legally, to bring this agreement down and to prevent it from being implemented. That, then, we'll talk about it as responsible people, if we're not up until now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15282	On the basis of Article 131, I will put it to a vote, before the vote itself, the motion to vote with a call, but otherwise, because of all citizens of Serbia, we publish any vote held in the Assembly by name and last name, as anyone voted in the National Assembly, on the National Assembly site, for every vote back six or seven months. I understand what you said, but by name and by name, you'll know who voted. National MP Branko Ruzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15283	Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the Government, the Honorable President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an act before us, or report, exactly in accordance with the resolution adopted by this House, a report on the course of negotiations, whether it was political or technical talks and dialogue. I think the act itself contains very clear and comprehensive elements of everything that has been done in the previous time period on the plan for talks between Belgrade and Pristina, along with EU intermediation. Of course, recognition should be given, above all, to the main negotiator, the very government of the Republic of Serbia and its Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic. Of course, this recognition deserves both the government and the Prime Minister himself and the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Government because it was not a bit easy at this time and in this context to discuss and conduct negotiations on this topic. The theme is heavy. The Gordi's Kosovo knot is hard to unwind, it takes a long time. Not to remind ourselves now of the first and second Prizren leagues, not to remind ourselves of all those responsible politicians that we all belong to, and responsible political parties who have been responsible for all those processes that have been going on in recent history in the past 23 years. I think this is one historic step for the state of Serbia, a historic step that can open a large number of doors that will allow us not to waste our time again, not to waste our energy, not to come to a position like, unfortunately, one of the oldest people who, by the way, is said to be biologically defeated in Kosovo and Metohija, as an economy that is not in an envious place, both in the region and in Europe, as an economy that is being built, and now at some level of 70% of what was achieved in 1989. So we no longer have time to wait. We have to live a real life, not to deal with myths, but we have to respect reality and everything that is a legitimate statement bearing the sovereignty of this country, which is its citizens and citizens. Of course, what Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija say, Serbs from the north of Cosmeta, but also Serbs south of Ibra, but of course we also need to look at this agreement and this report in a comprehensive, comprehensive way and respect everything those representatives of these institutions are saying here in parliament and what they will do today after the end of this debate by giving their vote for or against this report, in which the integral part is practically also this agreement that was reached after ten ore negotiations. I don't think it's time, as my predecessor used to say, that we're talking about some decommissioning, some destruction, but it's time to take that brave step forward. We had a lot of chances back then. Some here are now making a partnership between Ahtisaari's plan and this agreement. To a large extent, these two acts are compatible, but different circumstances in which Ahtisaari's plan was offered in comparison with these today. What's only safe is that we've lost six years. If we had the courage then, as this government led by Prime Minister Dacic today shows today, I am sure that Serbia's fate would be brighter, as well as the fate of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. Many of the opportunities we had earlier were not used. This is not a topic where we need to deal with some political controversy, that we are now telling you that, when DOS came to power, a temporary executive in Kosovo and Metohija, which was indeed the institution of the Serbian state system, where the assistants of all the governments of the Republic of Serbia, were suspended every week. Not to mention everything that happened with so-called. political prisoners belonging to Kosovo or Albanian ethnicity. Not to mention everything that was done by that October 5th, when our international position seemed to be much better, regardless of what we were then the opposition, than some of the latter years that followed. Those who have a better solution, I'm sure they would have brought it out by now, but mostly deal with criticism, findings and attempts to get a certain political point. Of course, it is legitimate for domestic political use, for the domestic political market, but nothing good, nothing new and nothing creative will bring it. We cannot play with the legitimacy of neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia nor this Parliament, and we cannot talk so easily about how this should now be questioned in some way. Nor should this agreement be understood, I would call it an initial agreement, as something that is closing this story. This agreement practically opens up the possibility that through implementation, in which we will have to deal with prejudices which are, of course, irrational, we will enter into other processes and solve those technical issues, whether it is telecommunications, energy or other issues, but also to discuss the functionality of the Serbian Orthodox Church, or its monasteries in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as everything that is practically the interest of the Serbian state. This agreement in no way changes the constitutional and legal framework of the Serbian state, in no way prejudges any recognition, nor will the state of Serbia ever do, but what this agreement paints is a great desire, one great courage, and for the first time in the past two decades is the result of a truly wise diplomatic approach by our negotiating team. For the first time, we had a situation to reject what was unacceptable, and after that, people say, we don't get a slap, but we get a high degree of understanding, respect, and we get a practical affirmation for what we're looking for. Is that enough? Of course we can't always be satisfied. Is that real? Of course it's real. Is that what we should be working on? Of course we should work. Is that in the interest of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? Of course it is, but we cannot double the interest of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija now from the interests of Serbs, or all citizens of the Serbian state, because it would not be correct and would not open those opportunities ahead of us. Ten difficult rounds of negotiations, which we had the opportunity to hear about here in Parliament, and I simply have to deny those who criticized it. So, on two occasions, the prime minister himself was talking here about the course of the negotiations, but when in some rounds you have not one piece of paper, not a single proposal, you have nothing to inform the public and parliamentarians about, but we have reached a point of racing from the eighth, then the ninth and the tenth rounds of negotiations, when that agreement has been initialled, where we have practically received these 15 important points, which will allow all that is included to be implemented into action. We haven't done much of what this agreement says, but I think it's the subject of today's debate, and I don't think there's much room for over-emotion here, because when you go into politics with emotion, which is an irrational category, you know how you go. So, unfortunately, we've been going through history. I think now is practically the last moment to start with wisdom a process that will in time confirm all its regularity, and I am sure and enable much greater protection of the rights of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. If, for the first time since the negotiations are held, the Serb municipalities community, if they do not succumb to the blackmails of the political representatives of the Pristina self-government, if the right to form that community of Serb municipalities in the north is exercised, these municipalities will practically give the proposal of a number of candidates for the regional commander of the Kosovo Police Service, if the district court in Mitrovica is opened, or the Court of Appeal in Pristina, if the composition of judges and members and police services will correspond to the ethnic composition of these municipalities, if, in all spheres that are of interest to the ordinary man in KIM, we have, as a community of Serb municipalities, full supervision and, of course, a link with the state of Serbia, if all this stands with the EU guarantee, of course, and in the given context that I am the prime minister in our introduction, when we have, on our own and in our initiative, we have received all the facts, and we have been able to address all the principles of the EU, and to adopt all the principles that we have adopted by the EU, and we have adopted the rules of law of law, which we, which we, and the EU, which we have adopted the EU, which we have adopted the rules, which we, which we have adopted the EU, which we have adopted the rules, and the EU, and the rules, and the rules, and the laws, and the EU, which we have to the EU, which we have been to the laws, which we have to the laws, and we have to adopt, and we, and the laws and the laws of law, which we, which we, and the EU, which we have to the laws of the EU, and the laws and the laws and the laws and the laws, which we, which we have to the laws of the laws of the EU, and the laws of law of the laws of the EU, which we have been, which we have to the laws and the laws of the EU, and the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the EU, and the EU, and the EU, and the laws of law of the laws of the laws and the laws of law of the laws of law and the laws of the EU, which we have to the EU, and the laws of law of law of the EU, which we and the laws of law, and the EU, which we, which we, which we Of course, when we talk about both the community of Serb municipalities and the functions it carries itself and the council that will be formed, therefore, here in many ways depends on the implementation of this agreement precisely on the breaking of these prejudices which, unfortunately, still exist in the territory of KIM, because when people live in ghettos is, unfortunately, prone to political manipulation of those who are not creatively able to build anything, but merely by some fatalistic or other destruction trying to talk about myths and to talk about something that simply does not mean life and does not mean the future. These people want to live a man's life and it won't be easy to secure it at all, but I think it's an obligation for the state of Serbia and this government to continue this process, to continue this way, because we simply can't go back. How will this implementation take place? I'm sure wisdom will prevail, that they so-called. political leaders who have arrested themselves in Belgrade and across central Serbia, and are hitting drums exclusively across northern Kosovo Mitrovica, will not use the really sincere emotion of Serbs living in northern Cosmeta, above all in northern Cosmeta, and I hope that these citizens themselves will be aware that in their best interest one such agreement is implemented and implemented, because they will be the keyaries of all secrets and will be masters of their own destiny and have the opportunity to integrate in one wise, intelligent way and in a political way and affect their lives and the realisation of those projects that touch them down in our autonomous province. Here, of course, is the question of the referendum. It's a question that can be discussed because it's the most democratic way to make an important state issue known. But when you have one agreement that does not affect the Constitution in any way or violates it, when you have, hopefully, the fact that here more than two-thirds of the MPs will practically support this report, whose component of this agreement, when you have the fact that we do not have the time and when you have the fact that such an initiative can also cause some conflict, or even political instability, or to open up the possibility of various political manipulations, I see no reason why only the first and initial agreement is a reason to call a referendum. Of course, if that happens, the SPS will decide whether it's an opportunistic moment and whether it should be done, but it's important that we don't remind ourselves of all those referendums that we had in the past years. Remember only in 1998 or 1999, so we have to be real politicians. We must be realistic, and we must not lie to the people. I think this is the first time that a government and a prime minister, who is truly in a sincere way, no matter how painful and unpopular it is, told Serbian citizens and Serbian citizens what awaits us, what awaits us, what challenges we face, and how this government tries to solve these problems. I think that's fair, I think time will show that we will all be estimating together these moves that the government, headed by Prime Minister Dacic, has drawn over the Kosovo knot and I think we have nothing left to do but get to work. This story isn't over. This is where the story begins. It begins, I'm sure, under other conditions, with the changed perception of the international community towards Serbia and this moment Serbia must take advantage of it. This may be the last moment that the state of Serbia can take advantage of both the EU and the European future and the perception of Serbia by all major and significant international actors in the international arena, I am thinking, above all, of the Russian Federation and China, but of course, of the United States, and I have mentioned the EU already. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS, that is, the SPS parliamentary group, will vote in favour of this report and that we are giving full support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15284	Mr. Samardzic asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15285	The replica is at the previous exhibition, since it is in the context of the referendum, which I was talking about and which I said the DSS would support, said we shouldn't lie like that to the people. The referendum cannot be lied to by the people, it is simply a way of declaring people on a specific question, where they will answer with yes or no. We'll see about that. But it's a very strange context to explain why it doesn't take a referendum to be held, not only to not lie to the people, but also to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, so the 1998 referendum was mentioned. Excuse me, that referendum was called by the SPS, i.e. A government that was under its control, therefore, to prevent the internationalisation of the Kosovo issue. It was held in May, if I remember correctly in 1998, and the first Holbrok-Milosevic agreement was signed in October on some arrangements concerning Kosovo, the withdrawal of the military, etc. It's not such a referendum. This is actually about an initiative that will have a very transparent goal and form. This is where the Assembly will do its part because it has to approve and there is no reason to disabling such an initiative in advance. You know, lying to the people, defrauding the people, if you will, the greatest deception is this agreement. You, Mr. Ruzic, say the Constitution was not touched or defiled, as you said, by this agreement. In this agreement, if it enters into force, it will be denied and annulled and preambled and Article 8 on borders and Article 182 on the Autonomous province and some other members that I do not have to list right now. So, the constitution will be practically brought down by this agreement, and that is something that gives us a reason for the alarm, but this is not about the Constitution, as a paper, this is about what is guaranteed, and that is the position of Serbs, where Serbia can participate, has proved 40 years that it can. Why do we give it up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15286	Replica, Mr. Ruzic. Just sign in one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15287	Mr. Professor, I really don't want to go into controversy with you, nor am I an expert in constitutional law, nor do I want, as a convinced Democrats, to disabling any idea of a people's initiative or a referendum. I've just brought out the fear, and how realistic what you're saying is, it's just saying your exposure before and before. You're mostly speaking in denial, you're talking about the fact that something's been broken, that something needs to be torn down, that we've brought down the Constitution, that the preamble has been broken, which, of course, is not true. As a layman, you're a professor, I'm not, in no way is that true. I don't think there's room for half-life. You have the right to state your legitimate position. I didn't say there would be or won't be a referendum, I just voiced concern that Serbia doesn't have enough time and energy to do some things for the sake of one political manipulation trying to take advantage of it. But fortunately, I am convinced that the people living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija quite well understand what I wanted to say and know who their false political representatives and representatives of their interests all these years were and who he said Kosovo was Serbia, and he stuck his head in the sand and thought that by not participating in the international arena and in the dialogue, he solved the problem that he apparently existed. What is the responsibility of the SPS for both 1999 and 1998 and all years, fortunately for all these 23 years since the multi-party system was introduced in Serbia? Of course, if we paid the price, we'll keep paying, it's not a dispute for us, but the difference between us and you is that we see our mistakes, we can change and we can make a contribution to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15288	Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15289	A really inappropriate word has been used, that there is a possibility of political manipulation. I don't know who you're alluding to at that point. Probably, you have a concrete idea of who might be politically manipulating the referendum. You mentioned Serbs from Kosovo. So, I'm saying that they know what their interest is, as you claim, but we have the result of theirs, therefore, and the rally, the announcements, the proposals and the initiatives, and they're not in favor of your perception of this thing, but of ours. Those people, in fact, will not agree with the consequences of this agreement and accept, therefore, that of the last means of legal and peaceful, that the matter be carried out by a referendum. What now, any hunch, or don't give God an insinuation about someone's political manipulation? And who today has the means and strength to do so, except for those who have the means of authority in their own hands. Don't allude to it, and actually, you're alluding to someone who doesn't think about it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15290	Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15291	Really, I'm calling last time, and I don't think I have any more rights to the Rules of Procedure. Still, I'd leave the professors to talk about this important subject, and I don't want to take it personally with you, and I don't know why you've recognized yourself so much in what I've been saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15292	National MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15293	Thank you, Mr. President, Honorable Prime Minister, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished fellow MPs, we are today in a series of difficult days that are behind us in trying to solve the Kosovo problem, more or more failed in the decades that have passed, I would not be too long in this. But I must, before we enter into some essence to say that it was my pleasure to listen to the replicas of my predecessors from the authorities who bear so much support for themselves, so much passion, positive emotions, visions, wisdom, the only problem is that they come 20 years late. The problem is, when I listen to them, for a moment I thought they were talking about me or DS, and they're actually talking about Prime Minister Dacic. Also, it shows that this power, which is certainly to be congratulated, has taken over definitely DS policy and not only on the Kosovo issue, which proves that today in front of the Assembly we have one smaller group of extremists, and let's imagine this incredible situation that we have reached this agreement, you would probably all have been out there with 200,000 people. What is certain is that this is a situation that we need to learn from and that every time, before we throw a stone at someone, or a policy that moves in a minimum space, we need to think about whether tomorrow we too will lead such a policy, not because we love it and not because we want it, but because various circumstances, influences, history, events made us do it. This is what was little understood in our political scene and in this congregation. I think it's a good thing this report in front of us is actually a report by more governments. Two governments, out of which 98% of the previous government's reports and two percent of the government's work reports, are cruel to the soul. And that shows that continuity I'm talking about. I am very pleased to see that all the agreements of the previous Government, for which the previous Government voted unanimously and adopted the relevant regulations and conclusions in this report. Prime Minister Dacic was also an active participant in all of this and confirmed the agreement with his active policy, presence and voice. The question arises why we had to go through the noise, anger and bad passion in the meantime. Because someone wanted to get political points. In July of last year, we told you this was going to happen. And we asked you to have an understanding of the time that comes and that you bear responsibility. You didn't listen to us. Seven times we've asked publicly to be part of this, advisoryly, of this process, to make our contribution, to listen to us, to consult us, to ask us for anything. You disobeyed us. You entered this dialogue in a very strange way with big words pomp, calling for the mistakes of the predecessors, the secrets of the predecessors you never found. You entered this dialogue with promises to Kosovo Serbs that I will not quote now, because I know that deep down inside you, they still stand as a deep remorse that will follow you. But it is the result of every political conversion and political conversion so that no one can help you. What's a fact, dear colleagues, there are a few things that have been said here before we enter into the measurement agreement, which we need to clarify. Neither this government nor the previous government nor any other Marty Ahtisaari had the opportunity to choose whether to lead the process into the UN or not. The last UN negotiator was Marty Ahtisaari. His plan was all rejected in this country including the Security Council, except for one party. That's what you have to say for the truth. Has everyone tried to get the process back into the UN? Of course. Why didn't we do it? Because the Security Council is deeply divided and because this point would not come to the agenda that is agreed among the permanent members of the Security Council. Why was Eulex brought in? Because the UN General Assembly voted unanimously on it. Because UNMIK fell from seven and a half thousand to fifty members. Because every report by UNMIK chief was adopted by the Council of Security without veto. Because every UNMIK chief has transferred every jurisdiction, anyone that exists to the central institutions in Pristina. That's true. This was not the case in this country until April 2013, and when it was spoken by the DS, we were exposed to all attacks of every possible species and threats to life. That's true. We are now in such a difficult situation as the state and society, and most Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That when we face a problem like this, the first thing we have to say is the truth. The truth is hard and painful, whenever you run the country. Since we're the opposition party, they're criticizing us for wanting to tell the truth, and we need to tell the truth. The truth about the UN is as I've just explained to you, and that's confirmed by Alexander Vukic recently. What is also true – how did we get into these negotiations? We're going to the highest level, enough of the clerks, we agree. We're going to the biggest topics, we're going to status. It's a dangerous thing to say. We've left telecommunications and energy unresolved, and we don't even know today, except there's a date, how is that going to work out? Not if it's gonna work out, but how's it gonna work out? The fact is, we're being criticised for arguing so-called. "technical issues." I'm sure after all this, a lot of people in the government are sorry we don't have the space to continue discussing technical issues. The fact is, too, that this agreement in front of us is the result of the difficult negotiations that have been conducted under very bad circumstances, but not only because Pristina has the support of the strongest international factors, but because the government, unfortunately, and the government and the president, is particularly divided in political terms to address Kosovo's problem. There are deep divisions and these divisions were visible every day, especially in the end. We'll see what more days they're carrying. What is certain is that you cannot successfully negotiate with Kosovo Albanians in Brussels, while at the same time the President of the Republic holds such a speech at the UN on The Hague tribunal, not because it is not true, but because it rejects those who are determined to get the result favourable to the state of Serbia. Otherwise, I think it's true, but I'm saying, not because it's true, or wrong. What is certain is that you cannot successfully negotiate in Brussels and that at the same time the President of the Republic is making me a mild, serious guff in a diplomatic approach to work. You can't make successful negotiations without the President of the Republic ever missing an opportunity to put us on a map where we belong, to visit people that can be discussed, to share medals for those who are very seriously discussed whether they deserve these medals. Then Dacic needs to reach an agreement. With who? With those who don't understand what foreign policy we're leading, because someone wants to prove that there's a door both east and west, and the Prime Minister is negotiating in the West. Well, the prime minister goes to Moscow, so he hears from the Russians what we've heard thousands of times, we won't be bigger Serbs than Serbs. That's right. You're welcome to solve this. Then our negotiating team settles with the help of friends, as they say in the quiz, and a friend is Alexander Vukitch. And that's a fact. The agreement that lies ahead of us is neither ideal nor good and lacking, but the DS will support it because we believe that in this situation, when we have come to where we are, a lack of support for this agreement would lead to the further collapse of the state of Serbia and its citizens. He'd be leading further into the ambis anyway. It would endanger the security of citizens, our citizens in KIM, but it would also isolate the state of Serbia and end its European integration, which would be disastrous for our otherwise collapsed institutions, our living standard and our economic situation. When we come before the ambis, then you say – will you jump now, or won't you? Well, we won't, but we have to explain how we got here. A successful negotiation cannot be conducted, and at the same time, you will admit it, Mr Dacic, says publicly at a time when you have a very heated affair in Serbia, that the Constitution can be put under the mouse and that Kosovo can get a chair in the UN. It opens space to the other side which she unfortunately used in point 14. Point 14 says we will not block Kosovo in European integration, but there is no country in the world that is a member of the EU, that is not a member of the UN, and that is true, the fact. And it's also a fact that, not this agreement that you've made that we're going to support, but the problem is what was promised, and now that we're going in, what was promised? These southern Tyrol, and Kurdistan, and, I don't know, maximum autonomy, division of Kosovo. We can talk by tomorrow. We had a secret plan by President Nikolic, which proved to be nonexistent. We had one seriously unprofessional approach in the negotiation process, unfortunately, and it is the consequence and disunity, primarily politics, not people. They tried to cover each other, but that disunity is obvious. Remember when we adopted the resolution, Mr Dacic, we supported you because you stood up against President Nikolic's failed policies and it turned out to be very good. Imagine if a presidential platform had been adopted, how would you explain that there is no such agreement under that platform? Not at all. I think this government owes it to that side and thanks to DS, but we're not asking you to. I think we've come to realize that today we have been commended by political growth and the maturation of power. We have a commendation in their rational view of politics after a long, long time of wandering and false attacks and accusations. We have a political elite who has realized what it means to lead a country in a difficult situation, how unpopular it is. We ask only that you say – yes, it is true; no charge, because there is no one in this room that is not guilty and there is no one that has not participated in any process. Just in front of you are sitting three negotiators different, four, in various processes before and it was never easy or simple and it was all days of hell, days of uncertainty, weeks, all of what we wanted to do, and we didn't. There has always been pressure from our right hand, our right-wing Slavics, who, between two bites of grain at the feast, consider how many Serbian bones they will count. That's right and now, if they were counting again and it was always like that and being, except we haven't changed our policy, we haven't agreed, and we haven't turned around, and you have. What is true is that if this agreement was not accepted, it is certain that we would go further escalating the poor situation of violence, Serbia's isolation. Also, the fact is that DS is voting for it because of the future of this country and for nothing else, just for the future. We don't vote in favour of your efforts or how you've conducted negotiations, or what you're talking about by-pass and a temporary solution that's supposed to be ahead of us, and I'm asking temporarily what? What will be the result? What's with the dog? Is the Bay-Dog before the division, whether the Bay-Dog before recognition or the Bay-Dog before the return of Kosovo under Serbia's full sovereignty, these are the only three options? Yeah, if this is a ba-dog, I agree, tell us what? Tell us to support it if it's true, but I'm afraid it's not, not because you want to lie, but because you're faced with a huge problem, like the whole government, huge and nobody should expect DS to criticize you for criticism, it's not going to happen, but you have to tell us if this is temporary, okay, what's the next thing we're going to do? What's that? We don't want to listen to another fictional illusion and the summated work of Tomislav Nikolic, we want to see what's really ahead of us. What is certain, unfortunately, is the issue of property, the issue of return, the question of missing persons, the question of churches and monasteries, the question of electricity and telecommunications, even though it exists for these last two deadlines, how are we going to solve this, I have a specific question, if we have transferred to Pristina institutions all the legislative authorities, tax authorities, economic power? If we're not, explain to us, what does a surveillance function in health care, education, spatial planning mean, that's what we want to know? Does this mean that children in northern Cosmeta will learn from Serbian textbooks and go to Serbian hospitals? If it doesn't, then tell us what it means. Is surveillance what we have in the Erdut Agreement, is this agreement going to be an NGO like the Erdutic Agreement? Some are hard truths, but some are truths, tell us that we know about citizens. We don't think any of us have party responsibility right now. We all have one moral, human and national responsibility, and that's why we don't have to look at this thing from party positions. Ladies and gentlemen, what is waiting for us, unfortunately, is a difficult implementation, a terribly difficult, almost inconclusive implementation of this agreement. Explain to us how you think you implement the Agreement when political leaders from the north of Cosmeta are resolutely refusing to do so? Why are we bringing this up now? 'Cause whoever's playing with fire gets burned. Because when we prayed earlier, the headquarters of some of your parties encouraged these Serbs to implement every agreement, which, gentlemen, today you adopt and congratulate you on it. Then you encouraged them to pour stones at every word of reconciliation. Then you encouraged them to drive out the traitors, as you told them, and now you have to beg them for this thing to be implemented? That's a little harder. We support you in that, you just have to explain to them why you were right then, and now you're not or vice versa. It's a very difficult situation for you. Of course, in all that galatias I think the last thing we need to talk about each other is -- we don't care how you vote. To tell you the same thing, the Democratic Party cares about citizens and we don't care about how you vote, but we're doing this because of them, because closing their future out would be devastating and because we have an impression, and maybe we're wrong, that after this they're coming up worse and worse options, harder and harder options, less and less enforceable options. I don't think you should defend this government's policy by attacking the opposition, reaching for historical parallels or hard words. The hardest word of all is, we've always said this, too bad there was no wisdom, there was never any negotiations with us. Well, that's hard words. That's not the consensus you're looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15294	After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate before the break of the Members of the People's Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to complete the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Branislav Krekic, elected from the Election List "Select for a Better Life" – Boris Tadic and MP Katici Vijuk, elected from the Election List "Let's Start Serbia" – Tomislav Nikolic. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Branislav Krekic and Katica Vijuk. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of a national envoy with a dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! "I ask the People's Messengers to sign the text of the oath. Let me congratulate you and wish you successful work together. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to conclude this session today. In accordance with Article 87(1), I shall set a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 4:15 p.m. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15296	Dear Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, New Serbia has voted for all declarations, resolutions or decisions made in connection with our Kosovo and Metohija since its origin, more precisely than the status of the parliamentary party. So much for those who are probably interested in what they are going to do today, that is, vote New Serbia. We in New Serbia think, however deplaced, politically naive, that at this point in time when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija to the Serbian people and political actors who represent the people above all here in the National Assembly and in general on the political scene, we need the word Serbian unity that we have so many times in our history so when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Of all those who are protesting or rebelling these days, which is perfectly legal and legitimately political, I think it is done in a cultural and civilized way, whether or not he agreed with some of them, I think the most rights have to rebel Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Twenty thousand people in one day, in a city called Kosovo Mitrovica or, more specifically, northern Kosovo Mitrovica, it's like a million people came out in Belgrade, and everyone who deals with politics, and especially our countrymen who run the country so far, I used that word by statesmen, and I think that's how they behave for those people who do so. The state top. So, I think they're headed in the right direction and I think these few days we should use it to talk to citizens, our Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija as it seems. Kosovo, as they say to me, is not an independent state and will never be. Just that, by some miracle, Serbia itself is here today to confess. Is there anyone who can believe that one state can be independent of, no matter how powerful a country in the world in the envelope, can bring a solution to who the president is? Kosovo countries? We, our presidents and this one now in power, have been elected in fair and democratic elections. So, we in New Serbia think that unity will be achieved in this parliament where citizens' representatives speak and vote, and we were ready to always support our own party interests and even personal beliefs, the majority attitude of people representing Serbian citizens. This does not mean that the referendum as one of the basic democratic tools for which citizens are entitled should not be called. Maybe it's not bad to check and have citizens directly at the referendum at the most recent time say what they think about this agreement. It encourages me and I look forward to our greatest officials not running away from it, but it offers as one of the variants. I think that in the next period, everyone should be together through Parliament and through the government and through all the institutions of this country, no matter how much investment is invested in Kosovo and Metohija, no matter whether there have been any mistakes, this team will already be questioned. I can only give you one example and please don't realize that I'm personal. In 2005, New Serbia passed a law that, for which reason, did not come to parliament to vote on it, and with only two dinars of smoked cigarettes in Serbia, with two dinars per litre of spent gasoline, almost every Serb in Kosovo and Metohija would have a monthly compensation that they could live normally, and together, united, say, in a village or a village to make up a business subject. I think in that way, it doesn't have to be that my idea is the best and the happiest, first we can help these people out there. I expect in the implementation and application of this agreement, if adopted here, we have all learned these 15 points by heart, but the constant foothold of our government and our country and all political parties in my view should be helping people in Kosovo and Metohija. So man is one state and is independent and sovereign if he has some attributes of power and state power, but man is economically free and economically independent. It's no less important than that. We need to understand that, especially those who have not realized that helping Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is helping Serbia as a whole. What I'm saying is that what's going on right now, or it's going to happen in northern Kosovo and Metohija isn't just about these people. I have already had the honour or opportunity to be right or wrong several times when making similar declarations, resolutions or decisions concerning Kosovo and Metohija, whether I am right or not, to let the citizens judge, that it is not just about northern Kosovo and Metohija, but it is about the whole state of Serbia. We must look ourselves honestly in the eye, say here that we are MPs chosen by an electoral system that says Serbia is one electoral unit and that we have an obligation to think about the entire population and territory of our country. I haven't heard anyone here, and perhaps I'll continue to say that our team led by Mr. Dacic and the Wolf has not fought on these Brussels negotiations and that he could have done more. They don't need to be told. As far as I could figure it out, they said they got away with it, that they were able to make a deal there, what they could do most at the moment. That's how I figure out these 15 points. Someone said today, I think, and Prime Minister Dacic, that it's temporary for 10 years. One of our great men and a writer said, "We're going to have a daughter yet," but we just don't have to give up. We should be patient, hardworking, smart and trust these people in Kosovo and Metohija, especially in the north, no matter how much some people don't like what they represent these days. The New Serbia MP club will support this Brussels Agreement at 15 points, with the deep belief that whoever, present or future, the government will finally make a consistent state plan, which will support our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15297	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the previous part of the session of the Serbian Parliament, I have listened to everything. I fully understand that there are political parties for whom the only acceptable agreement would be for Kosovo and Metohija to return under the full integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, we from SNS would be the happiest if that were possible. Also, I've heard hard words, such as betrayal. I have heard hard words that this agreement resolves the status of Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija do not gain independence through this agreement and Kosovo does not even have a UN membership. However, all these stories that are against this agreement ask a simple question – what alternative do we have if we do not accept this agreement that was in Brussels, to isolate ourselves? It's enough for you to go through a little Serbia and realize that's not possible. Serbian citizens are poor. Self isolation leads to even greater poverty. We don't have the economic strength to make certain political moves. That is why it cannot be the government's fault, but the governments that participated and led Serbia in the previous period. Is anyone at SNS happy about this deal? I can tell no one's happy. Are we satisfied? We're not even happy. Could something more have been achieved? Believe it isn't. Some political parties have also attacked the agreement here, so they have attacked both the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia why they did not accept the previous agreement. It is the difference, that if someone wants to lead the Republic of Serbia, they must fight for it and for its interests. Thanks to this desire to do something and to achieve something, to change something and not give everything for nothing, we now have one such agreement. Of course this agreement is not the result of the work of this government alone. The result is a tenacity to come to some of the solutions set before us by both the EU and the UN, as well as the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Would the results of this agreement be better if the agreement had been reached, say, five or six years ago? I am fully convinced that because many who led the Republic of Serbia would put Kosovo's problem under the rug, they would run away from it, they would hide it from the citizens. We have often brought here in the Serbian Parliament resolutions and declarations about Kosovo and Metohija, which remained only a dead letter on paper and no other result, except for a declaration of legal continuity in Kosovo and Metohija, which is entitled by the Republic of Serbia. That was the only result. Has anyone lobbyed around the world not to reach Kosovo's independence? It is no one, self-declaration of Kosovo's independence. Often, countries that have made us more than friendly have made it known to us to determine what we want with Kosovo and Metohija. We should not or did not want these governments to tell them what they wanted with Kosovo and Metohija, while the temporary Kosovo institutions slowly but certainly circled their independence. They started running their own administration. They began to exercise power in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. They're starting to have international relations. We stood by and let them do it. So, when the miracle came in 2008, the miracles that the little children in Serbia knew were going to happen, then who was to blame? So now we have one situation on the ground, which is not at all favourable for the Republic of Serbia, at least when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. What's left? Let's see, when it comes to these parallel institutions, do we really have them there? You could say we have them in some way. Where are they financed from? From the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's not a question. If necessary, the last dinar would go to Kosovo and Metohija from the Republika Srpska budget, but the question arises – do we have more than that last dinar? We'll continue to finance one piece. The most important thing is to prevent temporary Kosovo institutions from solving the problem of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija themselves. It's just a question of when we would slowly begin to abolish our institutions, one by one, that we would not ask ourselves anything, that we knew nothing and that they would circle the entire statehood of the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. For the first time, the Republic of Serbia has at least one document on which it can be called and which gives it the right to at least participate symbolically in the exercise of power in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. In the last 13 years, we haven't had a chance, no chance, and everything has been happening past us. That is why this is the beginning of resolving Kosovo's problem, and Kosovo's status can only be one within the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia. It's not possible today, but one of these agreements gives us the right to hope in some future. If it were different, what would they be negotiating with us? They have to negotiate, try to build a state with which they don't know what they're going to do, because they still don't have full integrity as a state and this agreement doesn't get them, but in a certain way something is coming back under the auspices of the Republic of Serbia. What is also important to us is that they acknowledge, whether or not they want to admit, that we still have a legal issue in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, which is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Can I say that the deal is better? Not right now. If he had been there maybe five, six years ago, I am fully convinced that this agreement would have been far, far better than we have now. Are we happy about that? We didn't. But it is a reality on the ground and these are facts that no one can dispute, and that is why the SNS will support the Government of the Republic of Serbia's report when it comes to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15299	Thank you. National MP Zechariah Trnavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15300	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Parliament Speaker, dear fellow MPs, "The Rich Serbia Movement" will support the agreement, which Prime Minister Ivica Dacic initialed in Brussels on 19 April. It is He who created after that, better than nothing. However, this Serbia did not lose, but was won by the formation of this community association of municipalities in northern Kosovo. We believe this is a phase solution and there is much more to be done until the final solution, to a lasting solution that will meet all the needs of Serbs living in Kosovo, non-Albanians, Albanians, the EU, the UN, Germany, America, France and other sponsors and designers of the independent Republic of Kosovo. Here I am now presenting the formula for that permanent solution. She's simple. And what's sad is that I already put it here on January 13th this year, when the resolution on Kosovo was adopted, but it went without any echoes. Neither was it considered acceptable, nor was it rejected. That's why I'm forced to present the next formula here. I propose that this formula be accepted by this Assembly and to order Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's authority to make this statement in the next contacts with Catherine Ashton and the EU as the position of this home. It reads -- Serbia and Kosovo will enter the EU at the same time as they meet EU standards. In this way the attitude of Marty Ahtisaari, who said but never accepted it, returns to the table and to the optics – standards before status. If it were respected, we would not be discussing this today, because KIM would be discussing it – why is it that there is no standard of what exists in the EU? So both Serbia and Kosovo will become EU members if they introduce the same standards in their legislative and other practices, which is that no matter where they live, on either side of the border, they live under the same conditions, with equal rights and obligations. In that case, when we become together with Kosovo EU members, the issue of the border will be relatively up to one degree that it will be less important whether the border is on Ibra, in the southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, or where it should be when it comes to Albania. In that case, it would be subjugated, I say, rights and Serbs, Albanians, non-Albanians, all who live in that area. I think this question is easily resolved and acceptable. It is also a test for the great forces to say what they want, whether they want a solution that paves the interests of citizens for which this is all done or some of their concepts and imagine that they create some "Greater Albania", which will be a counterweight, a new force, attached to the Atlantic Pact and the United States. There's a Latin saying that says "kill a man with a patrician" - where he's good, there's your country. There are our people, hundreds of thousands, who live today in Germany, third or fourth generations, in Austria, etc., who have become citizens of these countries and experience it as their own even though others are Serbs and glory, and are celebrating others, but it's good for them there. If the Serbs and Albanians are equally well in Kosovo, it will indeed be a matter of sovereignty, which, after all, is being transferred to the European Parliament by entering the EU, and none of this is creating a problem today. Remember the situation in the countries of Benelux – Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg. There is no longer any border or customs police controlling the traffic of passengers, etc. I advocate that, with this solution and this attitude, we enter the EU together with Kosovo, provided that standards are met, that all and many issues are addressed and relativated... (President: Time, Mr. Trnavci. ) This at the same time means that you must, and it should be emphasized, conduct an investigation... (President: please finish. I'm done. An investigation must be carried out and sanction all crimes committed in Kosovo, beginning in 1999, when those harvesters were killed, then, on 23 March 2004, etc. Please, Mr. Prime Minister, answer this. Is this crazy or crazy, and then let's forget about this idea, or could we talk about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15301	Thank you, Mr. Trnavevich. The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15302	Ladies and gentlemen, the Brussels Agreement primarily refers to Serbs with KIM, especially Serbs living in northern Kosovo. Although the state summit convinces us daily that it applies to all Serbia because it will bring improvement to the whole of Serbia, it is not, of course, true. The point is that the agreement removes KIM from Serbia and gives KIM the right to the hands of Hashim Thaci, who has been indicted by the same state that is negotiating with him in Brussels on an equal footing. That's the point, and everything else is the castoff of the people and the concealment of the true truth. On Monday, I was in Kosovo Mitrovica at a rally where there were over 20,000 people from the north of KIM. Your media reported that there were only 10,000, but that's normal, because your media is constantly reducing numbers, several times present at protests in Belgrade. The people in northern Mitrovica have never been so massive, because they well know that the Brussels Agreement depends on their future and their children's future. They then brought a declaration rejecting an agreement from Brussels as illegal and invalid. The declaration says, I will quote only one part: "Being in mind that this agreement violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and abolishs its institutions in the north of KIM, the people of Serbia living in this part of the country will not allow its implementation, because it would fall under the authority of the false state of Kosovo. The assembly expressed bitterness at the fact that the top representatives of the Republika Srpska authorities handed over part of the province, under Serbian rule, to those who committed a violent act of kidnapping of KIM. Those who have done so deserve every condemnation because they have not received a mandate from anyone to hand over to the world the Serbian country and the Serbian people, material goods and spiritual sanctity, and all for their narrow political interests. Because of this, the Serb people of the north of KIM will not allow the application of this shameful agreement." It's a finished quote. That people live down on KIM and he knows best what's better for them. For him, life is better in the state of Serbia, and not life in the so-called Kosovo. Where does the right to the negotiating team and the state summit of Serbia convince the Serb people in the north of KIM that he knows better how he will be and how he will be from those who live in the north of KIM? What did the Serbs get with the KIM agreement? They got a new state, so-called. The state republic of Kosovo, in which they do not want at any price, and they have lost their state to Serbia, in which they want to continue living at all costs. Secondly, they received the Constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and all its laws, and lost the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states in the preamble whether KiM is an inseparable part of Serbia. This constitution has been violated by both the state summit and the negotiating team. They got Serbs from KIM and Kosovo institutions, which is clearly in the agreement you signed, and they lost Serbia's institutions. They got Serbs to the KIM regional police commander who will be a Serb and that's fine. It will be proposed by the Serb municipalities community. These are three candidates from whom Kosovo Interior Minister Bajram Rexhepi will elect one to be his commander, who will receive his salary from Pristina and follow his orders. All police officers will be Serbs, but will be paid from Pristina. They've got police commanders for all four municipalities, but what's the news? Before and now, police station commanders in the north of KIM are in all Serb municipalities. All officers under this agreement will be part of the police force. They received Serbs and one district court department in northern Mitrovica, but it will be in the judicial system of Kosovos, not Serbia's justice system. They received guarantees from the NATO Pact that they would protect Serbs and that the Kosovo army would not be in the north for 10 years. Since I was an active Serb defence participant on March 17th 2004, during the persecution, I saw that NATO's pact not to protect Serbs but to provide logistical support to Cypriot terrorists. They said nothing about not being in a meeting with our delegation, General Secretary Raspunsen, but that he was his assistant and that there was no written guarantee of that oral promise. Finally, I address all MPs who have a national and religious feeling – will you vote against your brothers in the north of KIM and the entire KIM? Will you, as Orthodox, be deaf about the cry of our Serbian Orthodox Church that is telling you, quote - we appeal to the MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia to measure and measure their moral and historical responsibility before God and the history of the Serbian people and their own security in order to determine their own moral and historical responsibility when deciding to grant or deny Serbia's consent as a country to this text of the Agreement, finished the quote. In the end, I will vote, of course, as our people in the north of KIM thinks, and as ordered by our Serbian Orthodox Church, and with contempt I will vote against such a shameful agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15303	MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15304	Thank you, Mr. President. In short, I will express my support for this agreement, because it is the only way to finally normalise relations between Serbia and Kosovo. Both governments, with the support of the EU in addition to a number of technical issues, have ultimately considered major issues related to Kosovo Serbs, particularly the north of Kosovo. In addition to this very important normalisation of northern Kosovo, I hope that conditions will gradually be created to normalise the situation in the Presevo Valley as we have the entire time since 1999 and this is an undeclared emergency. These are the facts I have been talking about all along in this congregation. This idea that we can often hear about that a favourable and final moment to reach a historic agreement between Albanians and Serbs is actually the most favourable moment for something concrete to be done there, that the idea of a frozen conflict in my opinion is unserious, catastrophic and that it is absolutely damaging to everyone and that certainly this other idea of agreement and agreement is a living need. It's just a question of what basis, what principles? If they're still dealing with categories from the past, 19th century, if we're still talking about legends, myths, then it's hard to come to that agreement. If we are looking for this reconciliation in the principles of European values, it will probably be long term, but in that principle we must behave. To be honest, I cannot understand when it is said that Brussels was a Serbian delegation and other Kosovo and senior EU representatives. Why could it even be by whom such logic should exist? When it comes to the process of integration of the structure, we know that Serbia is preparing for the date, and that Kosovo has yet to come to an Association and Stabilisation Agreement. Is that based on objective criteria or some subjective? Absolutely these agreements, which are being reached with the help of the EU, must be achieved on the basis of European values, not on the motives of the last century. The faster we get rid of these prejudices, the more serious we will likely come. This government certainly has a legitimate right, as it has shown in Brussels, to take care of rights, the position of Serbs in Kosovo, but allow me, you have heard this in an earlier discussion in order to make these demands more serious in Europe or the world must be about the same principles or criteria when we are doing internal solutions here. We are talking about the right of Serbs to have a court, and is there anyone here wondering that in Presevo with 90% of Albanians, there was no court in the proposal the government made, and there was 50 years. The Albanians in Presevo should now be left without a basic court, with 43 judges in the Vranj basic court having only four Albanians, and none in the Higher Court. (President: Time. ) So I think that the single principle is a serious principle and offers serious solutions to the stable future of everyone in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15305	National MP Nikola Tulimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15306	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, members of the government, I read an agreement initialed in Brussels in English taught some experiences with some previous translations, and regardless of the impression that Professor Pelevic made, I came here with a completely open mind to hear perhaps 200 and some MPs know better than I do why this agreement is good. I've heard the arguments. I've been here since the beginning of the session. I have to admit, I haven't heard anything that would convince me to vote yes, and I'm not going to look back at why I think the deal is bad. In short, it takes away every sovereignty from Serbs in Kosovo and only its application leads us to the situation that the only thing left to full independence is its formal recognition. Everything else would already be there. What's the problem now? You'll have a comfortable majority and that's not controversial. What can be controversial, and if I will vote against and not a small number of other MPs, is the application on the ground mentioned by the DS people. Applying can be problematic for the simple reason that regardless of the views, attitudes and opinions of people living in northern Kosovo are not something MPs can convey here, because for the start of the elections are not candidates, the policy that the government is now leading. Serbia's largest party has run for politics that was completely different from the one that is now being represented. The rest of you do. In such a situation, a referendum is necessary. It will be easier for you if you really think that a referendum can give you a positive answer for this agreement, but you will also give you the opportunity to democratically challenge this idea and prevent something that can have devastating consequences. I'm most concerned about the lack of strategy. I haven't heard anything strategic here. I don't understand what it is that we're getting. I understand what we're losing, it's quite clear, but in that part about getting, the messages are mixed, vague. We've heard enough times to get a date, even though it's been denied several times. If it is a date, I think the strategy is, not bad, but catastrophic, because if you look at the trends, as far as supporting EU accession is concerned, it keeps falling. We will arrive before a referendum on a regular basis in 10 years when the majority in Serbia, by mine, and not only my assessment, will no longer be for the EU and now, let's say, 50-50. In 10 years, he'll be against it. Then what will our state strategy look like? We gave, not everything, but something for nothing, because in the EU, in the end, we did not enter. I'd like us to hear the state strategy and get the right to plead at the referendum. If money is already being spent on a referendum on this agreement, that, as a result of the specificity of Serbia's EU accession, a referendum on joining the EU itself is also being called, and that question should be resolved and cleared. Then I think there is no need to call on whether Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija will respect the agreement or not, if the referendum is confirmed. As someone who will vote against this agreement in the assembly, if the referendum is confirmed, I will do everything in my power to help it implement, with what I'm sure, and if more than two-thirds of the MPs, unfortunately, I have to use the word that I don't love, can betray my country, the whole nation can't betray its country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15307	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15308	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at first I will repeat what the President of Unity of Serbia, Mr. Markovic, said – The Unique Serbia will vote in favour of the proposed agreement signed in Brussels, not for the reasons we think it is ideal for Serbia, but for the reason that it is reality at this point, which Serbia is getting and what it can get. When I say that we will vote for this agreement, I think it is good for Serbs living in the Republic of Serbia without KIM and for all Serbs living on KIM, not just those north of Iber. This agreement is the reality of the situation after many years of negotiations, especially the current months, and it is the reality of seeing the schedule of forces in the world and in Europe and we need to understand, as Prime Minister Dacic said, that we are a small country and that we have to turn to the future, to think about our children about our families, about our country, if we love it. We, unfortunately, have often known what we don't do in negotiations so far, but we didn't know what we wanted. Here today, in many discussions, this agreement is being challenged, with tendencies and suggestions to refuse. So it's known that it won't, but I haven't heard a suggestion of what it is we want and what we can, as a country, fight for our people at Kim. If we're looking at the KiM problem in history yesterday, it didn't even occur 20 years ago, it was a long, long time ago. We who remember for a little while longer and have a little more years know that even in the communist Yugoslavia, when it came to brotherhood and unity and other things in the former Yugoslavia, there was a problem, however, KiM, but this problem was pushed under the carpet for peace in the house, for brotherhood and unity, etc. Normally, after a different deployment of forces in Europe and policies that are smart, we have to admit, led by Kosovo Albanians, it was that they had friends where we expected them to be our friends. Why did it happen like that? The issue should be answered by those who led both the Republic of Serbia and the state of Yugoslavia at the time. For a single Serbia, it is not disputed that KIM is a product of influence by large forces, some of their demands and demands when it comes to certain natural resources, and that needs to be said openly. No one from Unity Serbia can convince me that Americans, English, French and Germans love Albanians more than Serbs, only because they are Albanians. They love them because they have an economic interest, have a geostrategic interest, have a political interest, but Kosovo Albanians knew, at our disagreement in Serbia, that they were doing well and positioning it in the world and in Europe. Today, when someone says the issue of the agreement is whether or not to be for Serbia because of the final date for starting negotiations and entering the EU, it can be said it is, but on the other hand it is not. Let's not expect that as a country after signing this agreement and getting a date, Unique Serbia expects with certainty to get a date, to grow honey and milk in this country, and that suddenly all our problems will disappear and that we will start to live better. A respected colleague said that we must change, that we must change our consciousness, our relationship to work and our tasks, so that we can meet EU entry standards. When I talk about what happened throughout history in KIM, I have to mention the following, and I pray to my colleagues and colleagues, who are in this assembly, not only here, but also outside this assembly, not to shed tears over the fate of Kosovo Serbs on KIM, and they settled well outside KIM and enjoy the benefits of life outside KIM. We must say one thing with certainty, we have sinned when it comes to KIM, and let us today be wise, realistic, and look at the normal and real situation in which Serbia is and see normally and realistically the future of the Serbian people in the Republic of Serbia and KIM. If we look at it that way, then we'll say that politics is the skill of a possible one. At this point, we have drawn as far as possible for the state of Serbia as possible and we need to continue the talks and negotiations, which will surely come, to fight to get as many benefits for our people and our people at KIM. Let's not do this now. That's what we say in Pomoravla, we're gonna tear our hair apart. Let's look at reality, I repeat it several times, and support the government of Prime Minister Dacic, to continue Serbia's entry into the EU this time, it will be good for us in the Republic of Serbia, and it will be good, I say, for the Kosovo Serbs as well. I repeat, the Single Serbia will surely support this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15309	The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15310	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us this Brussels-based agreement on normalisation against whom the SPC, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs from the north of Kosovo and Metohija are determined, all of them by the list, against it, students, parliamentary and extraparliamentary parties and, ultimately, it is very important, a member of the negotiating team and former head of the KIM Office, Mr. Alexander Vulin. All of this tells us that this normalisation agreement has actually become one legalization of the abnormal state. Some in power seem to be very nervous because they are facing resistance. The resistance that the rest of us provide, not just us here in parliament, but also the citizens of Serbia. Not only that, but even some kind of attack on the Serbian Orthodox Church, which has not been seen since communist times, when the Metropolitan, who is otherwise the guardian of the Cave, is recommended to make his own party and then deal with politics. Since I am a Serbian woman from Croatia, I simply cannot help but create some parallel with the Erdut Agreement, which this deal is very excruciating to me. To remind all the MPs, but of course the citizens who are watching us at this time, that the Erdut Agreement also offered many things to Serbs in Croatia, without a little bit the same as here what was offered to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, with this agreement, but what happened? In the end, we have an epilogue story that even the use of Cyrillic in Vukovar is now a problem. I must also remind myself that some 30,000 Serbs, after the Erdut Agreement was applied, had to leave the Sremsko-Baranja area because they resented the Tudjman Croatian government. I'm afraid that if, God forbid, there is an application of this agreement, a people who live especially in northern Kosovo, from the guardians of the bridge and beyond, and therefore have resented Thaci's authority, they will have to leave their hearths and their houses at that time. So much for these security guarantees that the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija were verbally given. I have to refer to point 14 which is the clearest thing about what this agreement is and what this is about. This agreement is not only about what the agreement says, which is what the members of the negotiating team are constantly drawing attention to, but also what comes from what it says. But here's a nice black-and-white agreement -- that Serbia has committed at point 14. that Serbia will not prevent Kosovo on its way to the EU. Since we know that neither regions, nor autonomy, but sovereign states enter the EU, then it is quite clear that Kosovo is de facto, and almost de jure, recognised by this independence. Serbia has thus become, in recent European history, the only country that has given up an important piece of its territory and not at least what works of its territory, it is part of a territory that has special psychological, cultural, historical and economic value. We like about 200m euros with that river of money to come, when this agreement is adopted. However, I would just remind myself that the so-called Kosovo government sold Telekom in Pristina for 270m euros and that there are resources in ore and other metal elements estimated at over 200 billion euros in Kosovo. We handed over Kosovo, and we got the date. And this date, April 19th, will remain forever recorded as the date when Serbia handed over Kosovo and Metohija with all Serbs, monasteries, mines and raw materials to Hashim Thaci and its separatists. They showed Serbian owners around the world how gallant Serbs can be, not only at the bar, but at the negotiating table. I must quote the SPC and the appeal of the Serbian Patriarch, who appeals to the MPs and president of Serbia, to measure their moral and historical responsibility before God, history and security. I will not address the president of Serbia, he knows what he should do when he speaks to him, when the Serbian Patriarch appeal to his conscience. I'll talk to you. Dear fellow Members of the People, I will ask you to vote today in accordance with your safety. I know it's a very important party discipline, but your own conscience is much more important than party discipline, believe me. Today we make an important decision, and it seems to me that this decision is of the most important decisions we have ever made in our lives. Please act on your conscience, and in particular I address my colleagues with KIM, those whose umbilical cord is bound by a Kosovo meth. If this is how it is for me and if my soul is tearing away because of what's going on in this congregation, I can think of how you feel. But believe me, this day will pass, and tomorrow you'll be even worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15311	Thank you. MP Bojan Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15312	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, Ministers, members of the Government, Mr Pavicevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. Dacic, I spent almost all day in the O.R., if I'm not mistaken, a few minutes ago I saw you the first time, maybe it was the second or third time, to at least laugh a little. I don't know why it was, maybe because of some message you got, but I have to tell you, I'd like it much more and more normally if you were laughing here today and this session wasn't running in the mood that, I have to tell you, it's kind of like an opera. The situation is difficult, but why does such a thing have to be an atmosphere in this country? Why do I insist on this at the very beginning? I absolutely agree that this agreement has been reached under difficult circumstances, that we did not or did not have much choice when you decided whether you would accept it, but I also deeply believe that this agreement, even in such limited, limited frameworks, in which it was reached, can be the basis for a new start or a new quality of life for both Serbia and Serbs in Kosovo and Albanians in Kosovo. If you ask me and LDP why, above all, this agreement should be supported, and we will vote for this agreement without any conditions, no party requirements or party agreements, then its importance is primarily in that it is the first serious political agreement between the Albanian and Serbian people or the Serbian and Albanian people, however you will. For LDP, this is not an agreement reached by one government, one ruling coalition, no matter how much support it has had in the elections, as much as there is, possibly, support now and no matter how shy today's policies are, but you still lead, among other things, by defending such an agreement in this House, different from what your and the rhetoric of your coalition partners were, not only in the pre-election campaign about a year ago, but also in the years before. That's why, Mr. Dacic, I think you need to be more optimistic when you're talking about this agreement and somehow you need to disrupt maybe the other members of the government to get involved in this discussion. If you abstained from commenting on what the MPs are talking about, because you were afraid of going into the debate you had this morning, I think you were wrong. I think that in some other kind of debate, with other parliamentary groups, let's say LDP, we could have come up with some new answers to the questions that are ahead of us, which are not contained in this agreement. For LDP, this agreement is the end of an era and for us there are fewer or more pointless discussions on point 2), 7), 14), discussions on what is one or another variant of this agreement. What's going to happen tomorrow, what's going to happen in the coming weeks, is essential to us. Whether this agreement will make any sense, just as it is a question -- whether that date, and I believe that you did not just do this because of the date, will have some meaning for the citizens of Serbia, but also for the Serbs in Kosovo. When you and some of the other members of the ruling coalition of the previous days get in line to prove how difficult it was for you, how limited is the fact of that article 14 that says that Serbia will not prevent or that one side will not prevent the other from the path of European integration, then I think you must be very brave there too. Serbia's interest is not to prevent Kosovo on the path of European integration, because Serbs in Kosovo both north and south of Ibra have the only chance to seriously improve their lives if Kosovo's society is modernised, if established on the principles of rule of law, if reforms are implemented. You and I, Mr Dacic, as all MPs in this room know that neither Serbian nor Albanian society, unfortunately, for many reasons are able to go into more serious reforms without EU assistance or without the stick and carrots of the EU, if you want us to be completely open. If we had, then we wouldn't have had this problem with Kosovo, we wouldn't have this agreement, we wouldn't have had this debate, we wouldn't have paid in front of the National Assembly today as it seems, and we wouldn't have 1,000 other problems in our country that have nothing to do with Kosovo, but abuse of the Kosovo issue, not just in the previous 20 years, but much longer than that, was actually an excuse not to discuss these problems. I can no longer listen to these stories about how many Serbian captured ores in Kosovo are now being taken from us. When we are such a serious country and a serious people, what has prevented us from exploiting that ore in the past 100 years, Mr. Dacic? Perhaps if we were able to organise our society in such a way, to organise our economy in such a way, it would be easier for us to defend Kosovo, and very likely we would not go to war with the whole world in which we were sentenced to defeat in advance. That's why I think you're wrong, Mr Dacic, when you and your rare interventions in this debate today are actually starting with this proof of what happened before October 5th, and what happened after October 5th, and how in fact Kosovo lost that political power or that political elite that led Serbia after October 5th. You know perfectly well that it is very heterogeneous or that these are very different political options and that the period from 2000 to 2012/2013. We absolutely cannot view the year as a unique political process. I'll be honest with you. Just one short period after 5 October 2000, among other things, you and your political party did not participate in the exercise of power or in supporting the government in this country. I don't blame you for that, I just expect a kind of political honesty that would then make it easier for you, me and all the members of the ruling coalition, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Markovic and everyone in this room to sound much more convincing when they say it - perhaps the agreement would have been better if we had accepted it five or six years ago or if there were circumstances in the country for such a thing to happen. It wasn't an accident from heaven or some natural disaster that we didn't talk to Kosovo Albanians six years ago. That was the result of bad political decisions. Some parties took part in this, some of the concept of conflict or delaying the talks with Albanians, and some political parties did not have the courage to oppose it because they were in the government. That's what happened, Mr. Dacic, in both 2006 and 2007 and 2008. Of course it's not about that, and it's not just about your political party, it's about a lot of others. Some of them are in the government today, and some are in opposition. The Liberal Democratic Party has the opportunity to say today that it was right at the time, but to say that without any joy. We're the most unhappy for losing those six or seven years. When we told you for months in this House, Mr Dacic, to you and Mr Vukic and all the other leaders of the ruling coalition that it was high time to respond to the threats of the right-wing, to the atmosphere of the link created in our society, to keep making a list of traitors, not because you have to take care of us or some other people who are being identified as traitors, but because one day, when the agreement is initialled and signed, and the threats come to you, it seems to me that there was not enough readiness on your part and on the part of the other leaders of the ruling coalition that this well-intentioned appeal would be heard. I hope that at least in these days behind us, it became clear to you how important it was for you to do so at that moment. As I said before, the LDP will, of course, support this agreement, but I just need to look at a few more things that you, Mr Dacic, have been talking about this morning at the beginning of the debate and the past days. Some refer to you, some refer to what your coalition partners say or do. Unfortunately, I'm aware of some of these questions I won't be able to get from you. Today, it seems to me, Mr Dacic, you have told me five or six times that Serbia is important to its allies, that Serbia must have allies. Who are these allies, Mr. Dacic? Are our key political allies of the EU country and the Western country or perhaps on another issue or in the implementation of this agreement you want, you dream, and I tell you in vain you hope to help some alternative allies, say Moscow? I think that you, by the way, did well on that visit to Moscow, which, at least to me, was the least the result of your wish, and a lot more ambition for some others to push you into that Moscow before Putin and that it was the last attempt to break you and maybe this agreement doesn't exist. Then be consistent until the end. You're the prime minister of a military neutral country. I wish Serbia was a country that goes towards NATO membership, not because I love NATO, but because I think it would be easier for us, let's say, to preserve the interests and security of Serbs in Kosovo that we are members of the NATO alliance right now, or even if we have made a decision to move towards that alliance. But if you are unable to say that, and you, Mr Dacic, although I am absolutely certain that you and your ruling coalition think that, in a year or two or three, you will be in those positions where the LDP today is concerned with Serbia's integration into NATO, then don't go to Nis and say that it is unfortunately not a military centre. There's no reason to say it's not. It's not and it's great that it's not, I mean, from my point of view and from your point of view, if you're already in favour of military neutrality. If you're doing the opposite, then, Mr. Dacic, the idea of a permanently frozen conflict. Today in this debate we heard from the opposition MPs, but also from, as far as I'm concerned, MPs of the ruling coalition that this is a temporary solution, that this is ten years old. This country can no longer lose any generation of its population, Mr. Dacic, who will dream of changing international circumstances in which we will get a chance for a new war or new calculation, correcting injustice or correcting accounts with Kosovo Albanians or any people around us. For such a thing, we no longer have time, strength, opportunities, economic strength. You signed this agreement or initialled it, Mr Dacic, because it is an epilogue of the fact that 14 years ago we lost the war in Kosovo and that this ended the epic of our glorious defeats in wars in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. In the same old Mercator that today's SNS decision on supporting the agreement, which I welcome, I believe this Mercator was supposed to be the first victim of that famous Slovenian goods boycott campaign. A few days ago, Mr. Dacic, she was the anniversary of the "No One Can Beat You". You are the heir to this policy, and I do not expect you to be able to admit in this House, at least not yet, that the sentence "No one can beat you" has created a tragedy or that it has triggered the most Serb beatings. Not only Serbs in Kosovo, but in all parts of the former Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, it ends with beatings getting Serbs in Serbia itself these days and from Serbs. Is that how these unfortunate national projects end or do these speeches end up like Mr. Markovic had this morning, for example, which you didn't react to, I don't know if it's because it's your coalition partner? I'm telling you, that 14% or 15% vote, Mr Dacic, is not enough to silence such things, because it endangers you and your future policy, as it does today, and in many ways endangers you that the days before the last elections in the election campaign itself did not have more power to speak in a different way or more true about Kosovo. The Liberal Democratic Party, and I in particular, has not forgotten to you when you went to Banja Luka to send along with Dodik a message that the LDP is unacceptable in the coalition because of its stance on Kosovo. I'm not gonna try to point at that fact today. I won't pay you back for it, because I think it's a responsibility and obligation for each of us to give this agreement today without the rest of it support. I think it's your obligation and obligation for everyone else in the ruling coalition to give up the idea forever that they'll be able to use this, that national leader, the region, conflict with someone, as a platform for exorcising, I must say, petty party interests. I'm telling you one more time, Mr. Dacic, it would take a lot more ambition to be in what you're talking about here today. Of course the solution isn't a referendum. It's a very clear attitude of the LDP, but once again I'm telling you, don't calculate with the referendum. If you want to make a decision to go to the referendum, then the referendum question cannot be – are you in favour of an agreement or are you against the agreement? If we plead on a failed illusion, which is, for example, the illusion of Kosovo from the Serbian Constitution, let us then, Mr Dacic, plead at the referendum and on other delusions and illusions. Let's make the new Serbian Constitution a topic for a referendum on which citizens will plead. It might be a way to solve problems in this society and solve some of those issues that threaten, Mr Dacic, to become many ways of crisis hotspots, similar to Kosovo, I don't mean in terms of separatism or other things. I mean Vojvodina, I mean the question of human rights, I mean, let's say, Mr. Dacic, the model of the president's election, I mean regionalization of the country. These are questions we would have to answer to a referendum, not a question – a side or a local boot. These are not questions for 2013. Anachron, Mr. Dacic, was both in 1987 and 1988. If you and your coalition partners didn't understand it then and you didn't understand it in 1999 and you didn't realize in 2004, that NATO is important to us, and in 2007, how good the basis for the talks could be Ahtisaari's plan, or you didn't realize in May 2012, then you, Mr Dacic, some Mr Nikolic, who can't sit on the sidelines forever and touch politicians who have to make difficult decisions, try to understand it today, not because of the satisfaction of the LDP, but because of the fate of seven million people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15313	Mrs. Raskovic Ivić. On what basis are you answering? (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Replica. ) You are not mentioned, nor is your exposure. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: The predecessor, Madam Chairman, said that there was a lot more of this story about mineral wealth and resources, so why didn't we use them? Please, I won't give you the right to a replica. Excuse me. Here you go, come in one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15314	First of all, I thank my colleague Guric, and then I thank you for giving me your word. I'd like to say something, Mr. Đuric said – why didn't we use these mineral treasures? Of course, as we used these mineral treasures, and from the use of these mineral treasures, we came out that wing "Trepce is working – Belgrade is being built". That little of those who are not good with history reminded me that during the Italian occupation of Trepca was exterioral and belonged directly to the German administration. I would also like to say that I will spend my life talking about the resources that are in Kosovo, precisely because now the Serbs, the people of Serbia, are constantly talking about how much they spend on Kosovo and Metohija, how much it costs to express Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and what resources there are and what Serbia could do all of that, that we use it. There are ministers here, they certainly know, when I mention Telecom and when I mention energy, what I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15315	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15316	Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, I think that this example that you mentioned and that wing - in Trepca it is either working in Trepca, Belgrade is being built, is actually the best confirmation of what I was talking about, the confirmation of a completely wrong economic model, and that economic model was the result of a poor political model, in which Trepca was neither effective nor the whole country, and especially that part of Kosovo had the impression that they were actually victims and that their resources were being spent, I don't mean Serbs or Albanians, I mean generally the population, that Belgrade or any other part of this country would be built up. I don't think I have to prove to you specifically how bad the economy is in this country. If you're dreaming today of Trepce models from the time of occupation or from the times of communist, socialist, social order, I think you're making a deep mistake, as I think one of the basic reasons for the country's policy collapse 20 or 25 years ago is that no one realized, even though the ruling political elites in this country, that they can no longer maintain those positions in that model that crashed throughout Europe at that time. I have one more question. Are you also calculating nickel reserves in those reserves? Are we going to exploit the nickel in Kosovo, and in Serbia we will ban the exploitation of nickels because it is allegedly poisoned? Just to decide which concept of those two we support.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15317	Thank you. Mrs. Raskovic Ivić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15318	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would have answered Mr. Djuric if I hadn't talked about any efficiency, nor have I talked at least in a way that I wanted to praise that efficiency of Blepce in the communist system. I've never been a part of a Communist party or anyone of mine. What I'm saying is that there was exploitation and there was also electricity produced in Kosovo and Metohija that was exported to the former Yugoslavia and the region. As far as Nickle's concerned, it's not a question for me, it's a question for the Ministry and the Minister. Yeah, there's nickel, but besides nickel, there's a lot of other ore, and silver and gold and Germanium, without which you can't make a single cell phone today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15319	Thank you. National MP Goran Bogdanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15320	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, this very last replica that lasted a few minutes shows that today we are at least talking about an agreement that has been initialled in Brussels. It is these wings around Trepce or the ignorance of the situation that lasted 20, 30 years, including 40 years, who has forced this wing and who has spoken, that gives us the right to first and foremost Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to be concerned about their future and their survival in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I won't tell you anything new if I tell you that there is an extremely difficult period ahead of us, both for the state, so first of all for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija because today we could hear both pessimistic and optimistic statements, but trust me, the honourable MPs, that we need Serbs in Kosovo first of all, the truth. When I tell the truth, first of all, what's the deal in Brussels first? From this agreement that is here before us, the MPs of the people, you cannot, unfortunately, see the true truth. For this reason, today, for the sake of truth, for the sake of the future and survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, I will have to be completely open here and say that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and as I personally believe all of you, MPs, look to this agreement. We need to be honest with ourselves first of all, and also with citizens, to announce to the public that, unfortunately, by this agreement, the state of Serbia disappears from the space of Kosovo and Metohija. We must also say that for the first time in one part of Kosovo's territory and Metohija will be revived by the institutions of the Serbian state. We can't see anywhere here in this agreement what our schooling will look like in the future, what health care will look like, what local self-government will look like, etc. But, unfortunately, what is true, we must look into all this to be brave and to say clearly and decadently that in the next time period, all the diplomas in schools that have been issued will be worn by the head of the Republic of Kosovo. That our health system would be in the so-called system. the countries of Kosovo. That local self-government elections will be held under the laws of the state of Kosovo and we can't see anywhere here, and that's why I'm asking a question, but I know in advance that the local elections in northern Kosovo and Metohija will take place according to Ahtisaari's plan? Dear Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I will tell you first of all that the north of Kosovo Mitrovica, where we have, where Ahtisaari's plan has taken some villages and places, first of all, Suvi Dol, Vitomiric and other villages. Will it be covered in the new municipality of northern Kosovo Mitrovica? It all creates a dilemma with these people, and that is why I insist on the truth and only the truth, however difficult it may be, however painful it may be, but citizens in Kosovo and Metohija deserve to be told the truth. I think some kind of fam has been created in recent days that Kosovo Serbs want to slow down the development of Serbia in some way. Believe me, that's not true. I can freely tell you on behalf of the Kosovo Serbs that Serbs without a strong Serbian state, without a developed state, do not see their survival, do not see their future, not only in Kosovo and Metohija, but throughout Serbia. For this reason, and this dissatisfaction and these protests are not aimed at anyone here in central Serbia. You know, if you live for many years in suspense, in fear, when you expect every day to get harder and harder, then you need to understand some of those protests and that frustration and maybe some rhetoric that I don't personally agree with. So I believe, first of all, that we will be able to find common ground with our government, with our country, because we are conscious, without the support of our country, without the support of our government, whatever I think of this government, there is no future for us. Whatever it is with Kosovo and Metohija, I know that a large number of Serbs will remain in those areas. I'll stay here myself, whatever it is. So I ask you in any way and in your discussions and in our conduct, that we do not encourage some dissension, that people think that the state of Serbia has given up and that it will no longer take care of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the government's obligation above all to make it clear and decadent that it will continue to finance institutions no matter what system they are in, whether they will finance health care, education, the social, local self-government, whether they will transfer powers to the community of municipalities regarding public enterprises. You have public companies EPS, you have PTT, I see that PTT is not mentioned in these agreements anywhere. How and what is meant by transparent funding? Will money go beyond the Kosovo government's budget and continue to censor against Serbs? We need to be more open and tell the real truth so the Serbs know what they're on. So that the Serbs may know what they should do. We also need to talk more about what to do with people who work in the income administration. What do we do with people who worked in inspections? Do these people lose their jobs? We have to, I repeat, and until the end of the exposure, I'm going to keep saying that we have to tell the truth, no matter what the truth is. Because after all this, someone might leave Kosovo. I believe no one will leave what happens to Kosovo. But it is the government's obligation, this state to continue to help primarily the survival and security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm falling into maybe those people who will be critical of this agreement, i.e. principles that regulate normalization of relationships. Let's not make too much fun of ourselves, to be very optimistic, first of all, about this community of municipalities. Mr. President, this community of municipalities is here as it is written in this agreement, believe me, it already exists in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and Albanian municipalities are involved in this association. They have the president, they have the vice president, they have the advice, so I simply don't see any more jurisdiction in all of this than those Albanian municipalities, south of the Ibar River. For this reason, there should be no big illusion that with the community of municipalities we will have much greater authority, that the community of the municipality will have much more jurisdiction, that the community of the municipality will directly affect some processes in Pristina itself. I don't see the need, I don't see any reason for local self-government to transfer their powers to that community of municipalities. What would they transfer powers from local self-government to that community? I guess it should be fought for some greater powers or responsibilities that do not exist in these municipalities, but that they are in favour of Serbs in space, primarily in northern Kosovo and Metohija, and certainly in the south. There's been a lot of talk here about the police. We have one reality down there, one condition that has now worked as far as the Kosovo Police Service is concerned. We now have that Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija are 99% in KPS. We now have four police station commanders. It is a novelty of a regional commander who will be in charge of northern Kosovo, but when you consider the fact that the commander is appointed by the minister of the MUP then, in some ways, creates a chill. I will certainly not say that the police commander will either be Thaci or under command and will work against the interests of Kosovo Serbs, but we must openly say that unfortunately all the powers of the state of Serbia that she had, by signing this agreement, cease first and foremost in northern Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, I would like first of all to thank my party who has allowed me to vote first and foremost against this agreement, and secondly to have my own opinion respecting the interests and Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija, where the situation is. I will vote against this agreement in hopes of finding a common language with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with our state and that we will finally start living normally and put an end to all these misunderstandings that existed several years ago between the Kosovo Serbs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15321	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15322	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Ministers in the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear friends, I will talk about the report in question as well as the largest number of MPs from the perspective of his third head, more, the Agreement on the normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina's relations. Of course, all this agreement is not a picture of all the details concerning the organisation of the situation in the north of Kosovo and Metohija in the perspective, because it is also called the Agreement on Principles that regulate normalisation of relations. It is unequivocally clear that this agreement respects the adopted resolution in this House, all of its four points, which is obvious from the report, as well as the first and most fundamental, which is most important to act, that the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija is not recognised by this agreement. Of course, what is particularly focused in the report is the fact that the application of the agreement is what represents the greatest responsibility and the most significant obligation that awaits us directly. In particular, and I will conclude the opening part, I would like to point out that there is no agreement before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is just confirming the issue of sticking to the first point of resolution, as the National Assembly could possibly decide in the agreements. When it comes to ratification of international agreements, here is simply a report by the Government of Serbia on an agreement already adopted at the government session, and I think it is extremely important to show strong support for this policy and this agreement among the directly elected representatives of the National Assembly for the reasons which I remind you, for us from the URS, are most precisely apostrophe in the opening presentation of Mr Ilic, the head of the parliamentary group, above all because it is an agreement that opens up the historical period of reconciliation of two Balkan peoples and because I quote, "We are becoming aware that hatreds and Serbs and albanophobia have caused enormous damage to one and another people, and that the only true profiters are those who benefit from such conflicts, criminalised, quasinationalisticalisticalists". However, since the debate over this report has been significantly discussed, it is valuable that, at least for me as Orthodox and SPC representatives, we have been invited to consider our relationship with this report and the agreement in the broadest spiritual context. I think it's precious to talk more deeply about my reason for support openly. I have actually already expressed my position and some have probably seen it on the internet address [email protected], which is actually the official portal of the Office "Together for the Forest" URS and has been the subject of exchange and comment on networks. I have explicitly qualified this agreement as an undertaking by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's with the big word? Because it seems to me that the most important thing in impoverished, disoriented, spiritually malice Serbia is to awaken hope above all. The most important task of politics is to create a perspective. With this agreement we are actually standing on the threshold of an act, whose achievements are significantly greater, meaning significantly deeper than the parameters of one agreement reached or the technical formulation of the report on the whole process. I would like to talk about this act, not so much about what the agreement says, but about a broader context in which it is read, about what is not stated, but actually the essence and reason for the dramaticism in the region and in the debates over this agreement. Of course it's about emotion. I don't believe that anyone here has to hide the fact of excitement from this decision. I don't think, however, that here by agreement emotions are suppressed for some naked, trivial reality, it's simply not an adequate interpretation because there is no reality before any emotion and reality is neither trivial nor directly available to the human sense. Man has no sense of reality, and that is what reality is created in our understanding by a common culture, knowledge, interests, and a twin of interest, which are emotions. Just as the holy writings say, "For where your heart is, there is also your treasure." Interests and emotions are drivers and our vision of reality is largely emanating from there. Why are the sightings of reality so dramaticly different? Here I would refer to the one, all of us well-known from the textbooks, the art of the illusion of the white sandstone on the dark background, in which, if we look a little bit better, we reveal actually the white background on which two dark profiles meet in a kiss. Do you see lovers who seek a kiss or a sandstone depend on many things? Both images are possible, present. The fact that we have to face today at this address is that we have been burdened too long by interpretations that actually belong to the culture of myth. Even the legacy of conflict, hatred, conflict and confrontation is based on the mythological perception of reality. Let's not underestimate the myth. The modern man, modern civilizations, even in some sublimated form, is subject to the work of myth and hence to the excitement and emotions of everyone here, no matter what position he represents in relation to this subject. The very fact that our culture has made political decisions in the 20th century is dominantly inspired and subsequently justified by the arguments made by this tree of civilization, a mythological provider, indeed speaks of the problems of the advancement of our society and the fact that we have one primitive culture, original, naive, how much more expensive, that anyone would not feel hurt by it, but it is simply unacceptable to enter into reality in the HHI century with mythological projections and plays about it. The reality is, as Pavle Jovanovic writes in politics "invisible but real as a bulldozer" and with the wrong idea of it, you can only experience it if it breaks your spine. We must have obviously more adequate reflection, understanding and understanding of reality. I don't mind bribes in the pirate heritage, epic tradition and ten. It's a completely uncontested part of our culture, literature, national identity, but it's a huge problem if that's where motivated consciousness builds political ideas and makes political decisions, because it's not just an epic tradition of freedom, but it's also a hiduk. The political sequencing sequences are very dangerous, because the opposite of civil consciousness then lead to the position of the pillows. You know, moaning is an alliance with hiduces only from an outside perspective. There's a hostage in the inner ratio. Serbia's civil society must come from this mythic-hyduc concept of reference to the past and vows each of its own to repent old, to turn to the idea of the future and generations to come. That's what this agreement offers in its assumptions potential. Serbia has a terribly difficult economic situation, but the lack of hope is much harder for citizens than for the financial situation and for the economic situation and for the responsible authority to tell them – do not hope for anything in your life, but work to build a foreseeable, organised future to make it easier for your children and generations of society in Serbia. Such an agreement restores hope, the belief that Serbia has a future. By adopting it, we are finally entering the first class of civil democratic society, learning with understanding and in the politics of our poet to defend our country with beauty, that the country is not the only one among the countries of the world who asks you to be beautiful, that tyrant, monster and monster who asks you to give up yourself and to die for it, but that the country is the only one among the countries in the world that asks you to be beautiful for yourself, to be good and clear for yourself, to be successful and rich for yourself, and the country will find a way in the country to plant your individual success with a total amount of common good and to find a way to put your selfishness into a general interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15323	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15324	Ladies and gentlemen, on April 19th 2013, it will remain as a day, so to speak, of Serbian surrenders or sales of KIM. It brings us back to a period of 100 years back to our Kosovo reality. It brings us back to 1911, because on 19 April 2013, everything that smells like the institutions of the Serbian state was banished and banished from KIM in every sense, from education, police, health care and all other functions. The question is, why did it all happen, did it and done it? Someone's gonna say there's gonna be a transparent funding. Let me remind you, even during the Turkish Empire, then the Kingdom of Serbia paid more than 700 schools, and the funding went through Carigrad, which then paid the Serbian teachers. What must also be said is what is the reason for this surrender of the Serbian state's institutions. First of all, I think it lies in the obligations that the current SNS leaders have, and then the SRS representatives have in breaking their own party and coming to power. It is a normal thing to say this – we did not give it up because of the obligations we had towards those who helped us to come to power and break down the SNS, but we do so because of better life and EU entry. In the EU itself, you know there is no money and money. The money's in the east, it's not in the west. We see that in Bulgaria they are burned because of hunger. Four people have already lost their lives. When we signed that famous agreement, I have to tell you that the Spanish press has congratulated us that we built a road to Titanic. That this is true about these obligations of the witness and the statements of the former Chancellor for KIM Mr. Vulin, who says about the following – Catherine Ashton told us that if we don't sign this agreement, we will be left with me, and God forbid you have no function. What happened? Our representatives have retained their functions, only the Serbian state has disappeared in KIM. That it is true it also says the fact that this agreement is shared somewhere on Vidovdan in 2013. Back then, we had a defeat in the Kosovo color, the surrender of Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, and now we need to give up the state of Serbia on Vidovdan. What can also be said is that a large number of countries are now announcing that they will recognise KIM. If the agreement were good and it wasn't for our own good, it was for Albanian benefit it's certain that both Slovakia and Romania would not recognise KIM. Unfortunately, what we also had in Brussels to see is that our Prime Minister was not credible enough precisely because of the various inscriptions and links to the problem relationship with the Darko Saric drug clan, where I think most of the memos went from his coalition partners to the government itself. We also heard that it was quite difficult there, that they had to agree to everything. Even the agreement had to be signed because there were no hygiene conditions, since the first vice president of the government had to be in a wooden chair. We sold the institutions of the Serbian state, for God's sake, because the first Deputy Prime Minister had to sit on a wooden chair. Given the time itself, I need to tell you one more fact that we're going to stay in isolation. We didn't sign Ahtisaari's plan and it seems to me that in 2008, there was no isolation for Serbia until today. In order not to waste any more time, I respect what both the President and the Deputy Prime Minister are doing, for example, for their children who want to live in the EU, I welcome it, but they have no right to push Kosovo Serb children into so-called. "Yellow House" at Hashim Thaci's.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15325	MP Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry to hear some words in the Assembly that I can say are the least unheard of and from the political party that in the most brutal way has annulled the SRJ Constitution, the same constitution that Vojislav Kostunica swore to have lasted only one year and in an unconstitutional way brought the constitutional charter on the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Out of the same party, the party's president was prime minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro declared independence. While the same prime minister from the same party was Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo declared independence. And now, after all this, they're talking about how someone sold Kosovo, that's what you're talking about. What were you doing while you were in power? Why didn't you stop it? You were in the Hague tribunal at the time. For what? Well, for the EU. For nothing else. What did you sign with CEFT? For the EU. Not to us now, which is why your party brought Serbia into this difficult situation. What's happening now is saving us from the result your party and politics have led us to. One more thing. When it comes to patriotism, the most annoying thing is patriotism, and it's very angry that's a lucrative business and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15327	Thank you. Free Samardzic, replica on behalf of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15328	Now that we've heard a series of indictments about the DSS and its history here since 2000, I really have to deny what was said because it's almost in effect and without any reason. Namely, the first constitution of the SRJ was unsustainable at that time for the simple reason that the Montenegrin government did not respect it. A solution was to be found, found in the Belgrade Agreement and later to the constitutional Charter. Secondly, Kosovo has declared independence, on February 17th 2008, when we were in power with other parties, but the problem of Kosovo's independence is not about the power of these parties and the government of that time, but about the will of Albanians to separate and help Americans do so. I don't know if you know that America and NATO bombed Belgrade and Serbia all over SRJ in 1999, because of that. They separated because they had a strong ally who, by force and violence, violated international law, allowed them to unilaterally declare independence. You have to read that in some books to talk about it at all. It wasn't the government that contributed, but the government was powerless to stop it, and we all know it. This does not mean that the government should now be with the US that helped Kosovo make an agreement through the EU to surrender Kosovo. That's two different things. If he imposes an occupation solution on you, you can't prevent it, but you can't admit it or if you have that condition but you admit it yourself. That's two qualitatively different things, and that's where you mixed things up. It now seems to you that for the whole history of the relations between Serbs and Albanians, Serbia and its province of Kosovo, the governments in which Kostunica was president are guilty. It's the saddest replacement thesis, and it has nothing to do with common sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15329	The word is made by MP Marko Jaksic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15330	I think my colleague's very nervous. I don't know why there's so much screaming, but there's one Jewish proverb that says, the worst thing in the world is human ingratitude. What does that mean? If it hadn't been for the DSS, the SNS and its president would never have been in power. It's a fact. Unfortunately, when someone can't pay you back, he starts to spit on you, to lipstick you, and to talk about you the worst. We did not support you to betray Kosovo, sell your territory, and you have no right to do so. Given all this, what I personally think is that the worst story is the sale of Serbia's state to KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15331	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15332	I remember the bombing of Serbia and the SRJ very well, then I wore a uniform. As far as sales are concerned, no one here has sold Kosovo, no one here has betrayed Kosovo and no one here has betrayed the Serbs who remained in Kosovo. The biggest problem is that there are the biggest opponents of all. Representatives from Kosovo. They have apartments in the house around Serbia, in Belgrade, and they seduce that people there and they push them into conflict with their own state. Some have apartments in London, some of them have become the richest people in both Kosovo and Serbia. Is that patriotism? Is that how Kosovo has been kept in the past few years? That's the problem. You had a chance. Why didn't you try? When he was here in 2005 in the Serbian Parliament, Baburin says -- tell us what you want with Kosovo, draw the line, and we will fight for it. That's never been answered by Vojislav Kostunica. Here's to today's day, that's the problem. This agreement is nothing but a result, an attempt to save a policy that has been disastrous in recent years. We can choose whether we want Hashim Thaci to take over the institutions slowly, but as he wills, without any control or without any response, or try to at least put it under control and at least in one part recognise Serbia's sovereignty in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15333	Thank you. Mr. Marko Jaksic and Mr. Slobodan Samardzic responded. Please, one of you will have the right to a replica, so make a deal. Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15334	Mr. Arsic, I am truly amazed by your knowledge or ignorance of the occasion. How can you talk about Kostunica who said or did something else in 2005 than what Baburin told you when you have much stronger facts to know? Kostunica provided Russian and Chinese support to the Security Council in 2007 to reject the Martti Ahtisaari plan to replace Resolution 1244. So it's a much stronger thing you don't mention, because you obviously don't know it, but you know what some Russian scientist told you, like this in four eyes. You have to talk more seriously than on your own. This is of no value to you, these facts are firm and firm, and you cannot deny them. When it comes to Serbs from Kosovo, you speak very uglyly of them. You're talking about some of them making an excuse to make things a whole lot, so to speak, they're all really like that. Today you are dealing with Serbs with KIM who legitimately represent their voters. These are SO and their representatives, and every day you see them either in Mitrovica or Belgrade. You talk about them, they represent Serbs, not some phantoms, thieves, etc., which you have purposely stated to scare someone, and people know what this is all about. No one today but you is questioning the legitimacy of representing Serbs in Kosovo. That's what you did today, creating an illusion for an unknown, and you did it on purpose, that some criminals who have apartments in Belgrade and London represent them, take care of what you say. It is the most legitimate government that exists today in Serbia. She was elected in the elections, she comes forward every day, has the support of the aclamacy and democratically by those she represents. They came to Belgrade, expressed their opinion, and don't insult them. Take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15335	The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15336	Article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I believe there are people in this room who can read. I believe that there are people who know, if not in Serbian, then at least in English to read the points of the agreement. None of these points include sales, surrender, treason, or any lecture from the Serbian country in Kosovo and Metohija. Don't scare people. Do not engage in insinuations, lies, frauds, because on the other hand, it does not say here, on some other sides, and how to buy an apartment in London, and it is not bought for beautiful eyes and what it is and how Mr. Zarko Vujovic was doing in Kosovo and Metohija by selling and making double purchase contracts for the Albanian country and who he shared that money with. Much still writes and is beautiful and easy to say about insinuation and lies and fraud and alarming people. And I'm looking at you, Mr. Yaksic. Don't do that. Don't do things like that. You deal with facts, you deal with what this document says.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15337	Mr. Babic, since you've misused the time of the Rules of Procedure's injury, I'm going to decline the time of your MP's group. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go. I'm just asking you to follow the session. So Veroljub Arsic is now receiving a replica based on Mr Samardzic's presentation. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure and it took time from the parliamentary group. You want the same thing, Mr. Aligrudic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15338	I'm begging you, I've advertised the violation of Rule 107. What Mr Babic has just said is extremely offensive to all the MPs, especially those who are written, have an agreement in front of them and can read it. I ask you best to save us from these qualifications, and when Mr Babic has allowed himself to enter the metric of the debate, I will only tell him one very simple and simple thing. Mr Babić, since we all know we are reading, we can read very nicely Article 14 or paragraph 14 of this agreement in which it is very clear, unequivocally stated that Serbia, or Belgrade and Pristina, have agreed not to block each other in European integration. Mr Babic, in order for a country to become an EU member, there must be a country first. In order to become an EU member, it must join European conventions. To join European conventions, it must be a member of the Council of Europe. In order to be a member of the Council of Europe, it must first become a member of the UN. Mr. Granny, if you know anything in this world, you know that. If you have committed not to block Pristina from joining the EU, you have committed to recognising Kosovo's independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15339	Mr. Aligrudic, since you have also used the time of your injury to the Rules of Procedure, and I will take your time from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Jaksic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15340	As for all kinds of houses, apartments and abuses, I'm absolutely up for it, anyone who's stolen should go to jail. After all, the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister has four intelligence services, so I hope he finds them easily. If Mr. Babic thought I had an apartment in London, here I give it to you in front of everyone and hope you serve him well. As for the other things, I have to say next. By the Lord God, I swear before all of you that I will not calm down until I return Kosovo to the state of Serbia again. Those are the words of Tomislav Nikolic and I think he must have calmed down now. I have one more thing to say. In an interview with Ljubica Gojgic, when she asked if you would leave the institutions of the Serbian state, he said -- we will not. If you will, then Marko Jaksic will be right, that I am a traitor, because I sold the institutions of the Serbian state. What do I mean? In these 15 points of the agreement, there is no state or Republic of Serbia. If it's a betrayal, if it's a surrender, then that's it. Besides, Mr. Babic, you know that no woman who has an easy morale will say to herself that she's in this business, like a traitor won't say to himself she's a traitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15341	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15342	First, I don't know if I'm uninformed or if any other party is uninformed, along with her president. Mr. Baburin is not some scientist there, but Russian Duma Vice President and the conversation was not in four eyes, but was an official Russian Duma delegation. So much for that. When we mention some things that were transferred to me, let me just remind you of the words that went out of your MP club. "We're pushing the kids into the yellow house of Hashim Thaci." "The agreement was not signed because there were no hygiene conditions and because the first Deputy Prime Minister was sitting on a wooden chair." Or do you want someone to betray it, sell it? I don't know what even harder word there is. If anyone thinks I'm a traitor, let them tell me, just not in this building, so you can see how it goes. It was not Tomislav Nikolic who released Flyor Brovina, but Vojislav Kostunica. It wasn't Tomislav Nikolic who released the Mazreka brothers, it was Vojislav Kostunica, along with 1200 other terrorists. The ones you released were killing Serbs again in March of 2004. A man who admitted to raping a nine-year-old girl was released and killed because he was a Serbian and burned in the only crematorium in Europe after World War II in Klecka. What kind of patriots are you, then?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15343	I have three registered MPs from the DSS parliamentary group. Does anyone want the Rules of Procedure to advertise? Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15344	I must, Madam Chairman, say that when it comes to the hot topic, it's logical to have a slightly heated atmosphere. Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15345	Before you continue, Mr. Aligrudic, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15346	Are you deaf? Article 107. I told you three times. So, this amount of senseless insult by a political party has not recently been heard by some idiotic examples from the naphthaline, to justify an anti-sustaining traitor act. There's talk of Flyora Brovina, as if Flyora Brovina was responsible, the whole Flyor Brovin case for our betrayal. What does that have to do with anything? It can only occur to someone who feels fat guilt about what he's doing. Under this agreement, Mr Arsic, you wrote, along with the Shiptars from Kosovo, that there would be a single police force in Kosovo within the Kosovo police, so you wrote that the judicial authorities would be integrated and functioning within the Kosovo legal system, so you wrote that elections for the community of municipalities would be called under Kosovo law, so you wrote that Kosovo law and Kosovo's constitutional system would be applied there. What does that have to do with Fljor Brovin? What does that have to do with everything you've just talked about, to find it appropriate to insult a normal and patriotic party in this House? Did you say that as a Serbian radical or as a Serbian promoter? Explain in what quality you've said this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15347	Mr. Aligruditch, I think you've used this time for a replica, too, so I'm going to take this time from your MP group. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: He can't. Just don't yell at me. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm gonna take this time away from you, as I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15348	I'm sorry, I'm yelling because you can't hear me, that's obvious. The second thing, you can't take away from me from the time of the parliamentary group, because it's not by procedure. You can punish me, if you will, if I have broken the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but this is a debate in principle, which has its own rules. If we were in the discussion in particular, you could subtract from the time of the parliamentary group. You have no right to do this. I warn you that you will violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15349	Mr. Aligrudic, I'll remind you of the Rules of Procedure. Article 103, paragraph 8, says - in the case of the position of the 7th member, the President of the National Assembly is required that the time used by the MP, by abuse of the right of the position of the 2nd member, subtracts from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, so that his parliamentary group remains from the remaining search time. So I think I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to continue to debate this replica in order to allow other MPs to have the right to present their views. In order, the word has been given by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15350	Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, the Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as representative of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, south of Ibra, I do not consider this to be the only agreement, nor will this agreement solve the issue of KIM, as well as this bile debate and the way of the KIM talks. This is what I consider part of the Agreement and the opening of a new process and a new chapter in the settlement of KIM. The question of KIM is not a decades-old question since yesterday. I'm going to go back 50 years chronologically and point out the events that affected us today in the state of Serbia and in the area of KIM are in the state we are in. I want to remind you, you and the public, that in 1963, there was a major migration of Serbs from the KIM area, and then we ask ourselves, who brought the Constitution in 1974, when they gave the autonomous provinces attributes of statehood, in 1981, or 1968 and 1971, demonstrations, and in 1981 student demonstrations, allegedly due to poor food in student homes? Listen to this debate here, there's no reason for tension, there's no reason to be nervous, my generation lives 35 years under these conditions on KIM. Believe me, the people of KIM are calmer, more patient, more durable, stronger and more resistant than you are to an individual who allegedly takes care and cares for the fate of the Serb people in KIM. From 1989 to 1999, during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, Serbs in KIM could say they were on their own. Then comes the bombing, the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement, Resolution 1244, where we were accused and accused of treason and where you were then saying that we had betrayed the Serbian people, that we didn't know that we were working with the international community, that we didn't know that we were working with Albanians, that we were cruel and that you took power. But how did you take power? In 2000, or 2001, I asked you – who introduced customs to KIM? Who set up the first checkpoints on Merdar and in Konchulj? Who signed the CEFTA? In 2004, when the pogrom happened at KIM, what could we do as the state of Serbia? We only held closed meetings of the Committee on Security and the Committee on the KiM and sought and prayed and sent a request to the southern wing of NATO to prevent violence of Albanian separatists and terrorists and ethnic cleansing, as the few Serbs left in the cities left their seats and their homes. Had it not been at 15.00 hours on the Security Committee and the KIM Committee for the Southern Wing of NATO's official statement that if Albanians continued with violence, ammunition fighting would be used. That's when the violence stopped. In 2008, independence was declared. I'm asking all of you here, as if we don't have a sense of reality, as if we're deluded, as if Albanians don't exist in KIM space, as if there's no EU, as if there's no international community, when I say the international community -- America and the great powers, as if we're alone, and now we're negotiating how we're going to apply the Agreement. What are we gonna call that? What do we call bribes? Is it a self-called, so-called independent state of Kosovo? The obvious and evident fact that they have made certain attributes of statehood in KIM for the past 13 years. It's a fake, it's a reality. That's why Serbia and Serbs are in KIM space today for who knows which road is at the crossroads. Who knows which way they are before Hamlet? To be or not to be? Accept or refuse this agreement? Go or stay in KIM? Hard, complex, difficult, burdensome, painful, the most difficult for Serbs in the KIM area, Serbs in Serbia, and I would say to the negotiating team, headed by the Prime Minister, Mr Dacic and the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic. When we discuss the Agreement today and its application, there is no reason for great optimism, and there is no reason for total pessimism either. The reasons for a certain dose of optimism are: 1) the willingness to obtain guarantees to be realised and thus ensure security, freedom of movement and peace in KIM; 2) the willingness to assume responsibility for the implementation of the Agreement; 3) the readiness and responsibility for the protection of Serbs north and south of Ibra, for the first time, to KiM. A very crucial question, and I mean one of the essential issues and problems that they are having with the people, where they carry out a certain dose of fear, reserves and doubts, which is the readiness to continue financing and economic strengthening of Serbs in the area of KIM, and to produce projects for 14 generations of young people who, regardless of the difficulties and difficulties, have completed high and high vocational schools. Finding opportunities and projects for their employment is necessary. Never accept an independent kiM. Why the dosage of reserves and pessimism? Experiences so far have shown a number of obstructions and blockades and a lack of readiness to realise the agreed, or signed, above all by the EU, especially when it comes to the Albanian side. The fact is that no crime is lit, starting with the "yellow house" or the Varnica near Podujev, Starigrad, Gorazdevac, etc., and they are evidence of obstruction, while also the responsibility of the EU and the Albanian sides for the implementation of the signed agreement. Two, many things that are of vital importance to Serbs from the area of KIM, both those who went to KIM and those in migration, are not even touched, I mean the return of more than 200,000 displaced, property issues, Serbian and Serbian damages, especially the state of Serbia for funds invested in KIM space since 1974, to remind you, a million dollars was then invested daily and so on. The former SRJ in KIM space, defining and resolving the questions of the fate of the kidnapped and missing, as well as the protection of cultural and historical and church treasures. What I'm trying to say, and what you're seeing these days and all that's been happening in Brussels, obviously, is that the agreement has been initialled under unprecedented pressure and conditions, I think of the EU, with such a great hurry, back-to-back, as if there were going to be an end to the world. I want to point out here, and I don't think it's a good division or a dangerous division, and if there is -- it's an implementation, if it doesn't exist, and that's to mention Serbs from the north all day long, whose struggle and contribution to survival in the area of Kosovo and Metohija is not slow and I support and welcome the talks of the representatives of the Serbs from the north of Kosovo and Metohija with the leadership of our state. I hope it will find an adequate solution in the interest of all Serbs in both Kosovo and Metohija and the state of Serbia. But I can't help but say and express my contribution to the Serbs south of Ibra. If there are 40,000 Serbs in the north, according to UN data, EULEX. In the central part there are 40,000 people, Serbs counting there and Bezovica, Strpce, in the maritime area - New Hill, Gjilane, Vitina and Kamenica, about 40,000 and I do not accept a sentence that was said that we agreed to preserve our skin, as I understood, in the republic of Kosovo, which is not true. I am taking the opportunity for those who stayed in Kosovo and Metohija, in the north, but especially those in Gracanica, Ranulug, Gorazdevec, the Great Coach, to contribute, and they have preserved the institutions of the Serbian state in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. When it comes to the community of Serb municipalities, I think it is a model and one can make a connection between northern and other parts of Kosovo and Metohija. Very short, on the quality, ability, rationality, wisdom and readiness of people who will form a community of Serb municipalities in many ways will depend on the further functioning of the community, and I would say the survival of Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. There are a lot of questions being asked in public these days. The first question – are the Serbs who remained written off, deceived, neglected, forgotten and who are one step further from the Serbian queen? The second question - if we accept the agreement, literally swallow the dumpling, drink the bitter pills, is that the end of blackmail and the disintegration of the Serbian state? The third question, very important – what symbols and seals will be used in public places and assemblies? I tried in talks with the SPS membership and with our coalition partners and people in Kosovo and Metohija to answer questions and to ask them for answers. Like I asked them, and I didn't hear here today, if we refuse the agreement, what's the alternative? What's the alternative? No acceptance, no rejection or referendum? Or what about us Serbs, both those from the north and those south of Ibra that the negotiating team refused and tried to delay the initial agreement? How many of us would remain in the area of Kosovo and Metohija without the guarantee of the Serbian police, with no KPS police guarantee and no NATO alliance guarantee? I am fully aware of the situation in which both we Serbs are in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and the states of Serbia and the state in which Serbia, as a state, has found itself. First of all, I mean political, international and economic. When I say economics, I mean the standard of people in our country. That is why this agreement for me is a necessary evil, without which Serbia cannot go any further and it is an extorted variant. We didn't go ideally, far from ideal and good. Could it have been better under these circumstances? As we can see, it wasn't possible. Therefore, the implementation, strategy and adoption of a new constitutional law will depend on much, will depend on the fate of Serbs in the Kosovo area and Metohija and the fate of Serbs, that is, the whole Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15351	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15352	Thank you. Let's talk people's language some things. What was done with this agreement? We're going straight to the deal, so we don't waste any time, 'cause I don't want to talk much. A little while ago, I was very clear about how things stand, and in this agreement it clearly states that all what was allegedly said about the position of Serbs in KIM, they already have their own rules of conduct, according to the rules of the Serbian state plus will lose a lot more because all things will be annulled and moved to the authority of the Kosovo state. One, you are destroying the institutions of Serbia at KIM. You are turning everything into the institutions of the state of Kosovo, and what you have boasted in the media that you have fought, such as the police commander in northern Kosovo, I will remind you once again, I read that provision -- there will be a single police force in Kosovo called the Kosovo police. All police in northern Kosovo will be integrated within the framework of Kosovo police. Salaries will only be paid by Kosovo police, and then Kosovo police will elect commanders from the ethnic Serb ranks of KIM to wear Kosovo poets, Kosovo's marks of the Republic of Kosovo. That's what you've been fighting for. Then you fought for the courts to be Kosovo courts that would accept members of the ethnic Serbs at KIM, judges to be members of these courts and to judge by Kosovo's laws. Then you fought in this famous Article 14 that it was agreed that neither party would block or encourage others to block the other sides on its path to the EU. So, we translate into a people's language -- if Russia would want to join the Security Council tomorrow to prevent Kosovo from becoming a member of the UN, we would have to talk to the Russians and prevent them from doing so, or at least not to encourage them because it would definitely compromise Kosovo's path to Eurointegration. Why? And you all know it very well, and that's my question for the government. Answer that question clearly and specifically, so as not to spread the story any further. Is it possible for someone, some country to become a member of the EU and, previously, listen carefully and answer me, has not joined all European conventions? He's referring to the Council of Europe conventions. You know that's not possible. Kosovo must become a member of the Council of Europe in order not to block them. In order to become a member of the Council of Europe according to the Statute, it must be a member of the UN. This is as clear as day. It's not subject to negotiation, gentlemen, you signed it. Now let's get things back to normal, what did you sign? Did you sign KIM's confession, or so-called independence of the pieces? Yes, it is. You may not be, but you are. Tell me if this is true or not. You know very well it's true. The fact that Mr. Babic is making fun of him and he feels bad that I'm right is another thing. But you need to know that this is true. What's next you're going to do? How do you plan to manage this process further? How do you think you keep your promises because you adopted most of the votes of the resolution in this House that you will never recognise Kosovo's independence? How? Do you know what the worst part is? It's terrible that you're breaking the Constitution. It's terrible that you've betrayed Serbia and Kosovo, but it's even worse than what you're making fools of us and it's going to stay for a while until people out of this room, there's more than two-thirds of you here to support this agreement, and we're not going to, when they figure out what you've done, and they're going to figure out why we're going to tell them, then this relationship of power that you're boasting today in the Assembly room is going to change it, because it's already changed today with all the ignorance and fear in which you're holding them, the fear of the collapse of Eurointegration, you want to shake their pants off of it, the fear of some conflicts. What are you people doing? What are your motives? Is it possible that only the motives of EU membership are? I'm afraid they're not and that they're on to what Mr. Jaksic was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15353	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15354	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I understand and understand that this government has a problem in explaining the essence of this agreement and the reasons for its adoption to its constituents, to your party members, and even, as far as I have seen this morning, you have a problem explaining to your MPs the reasons for this agreement. If you look at this meeting in front of the Serbian Parliament, you have a problem in explaining the reasons for this agreement to be adopted and to those who have most loudly supported you in the second round campaign to elect the president of Serbia. Those who have supported you with the loudest of voices today are making the most of your accusations. And who did you turn to? Those you have been so zealously pursuing for 23 years because of the European idea, because of European values, because of European ideals. You've looked for the DS hand we've given you so many times in the past, and you've spit so many times in it, lurking a chance to cut it off whenever you find it nice and convenient. That's why we're not mad at you. We don't blame you for that. We will always give you that hand, which you once hated so much. You know, it's no small thing when a 23-year-old is homeless, not choosing funds, fighting European ideas and European ideals, when someone's acting like a executioner who's allowed everything. It is not unusual in history for executioners to be ashamed of the dignity of holding their victims and accepting the ideals and ideas of their victims. It's no big deal. It's no big deal when the executioners and the screams of their victims turn into their victory song into their own faith. I have to ask you, it's not the first time in human history that Saul becomes Paul, and before that he stones Stefan. But before that transformation happens, there is always sincere repentance. I'm not asking you here to sincerely regret your 23 years of tripping this country on a European path, nor do I expect you to. But I ask you -- do you know how much happier Serbia would have been if Tomislav Nikolic had been this terrible, foreign, unknown word -- I'm sorry, he was learning with the songs of Đorđa Balasevic, but in Srebrenica. You know how lucky Serbia would have been today if it hadn't been for the book of Tomislav Nikolic "All for Kosovo and Metohija". (President: Mr. Milivoevich, please return to the topic. Thank you, Madam Chairman. The theme is KIM. Would you like me to read you a little bit of what the book says here? Don't interrupt me, let me say it. I understand that conscience doesn't always have to be calm. I won't be long, believe me. Let me go, please. It's about citizens. So, I'm not going to turn this debate into a retrospective of Tomislav Nikolic's speech. They don't have any of that Serbian citizens. Neither do you, nor I. It is enough today that the Serbian Parliament is turned into a hook and there is no need for all of us to get down into that plague to remind you how difficult it is to get out of it. It's a good thing you're no longer going to Europe through Karlobag, Ogulin, Virovitica, Karlovac. Unfortunately, you had to cross Jarinj and Brnjak to Brussels. Let me ask you this - why didn't you fall asleep 23 years ago, as radicals, wake up as Boris Tadic? You know how Serbia would be a happier, better country. We wouldn't have a debate about Kosovo at all today. Today we would debate and seek consensus on how to reform the pension system, what to do with health insurance. Kosovo and Metohija would not exist as a topic in our lives. And that's your great historical responsibility and you can't get away from it. There is no rhetoric in which you can transfer that balance and burden to our shoulders. You know, there are pens that can be written past, present and future, but there's no rubber that erases the past. That's the past you have to carry, the mortgage of the past, on you. I am undermining you again, and on the subject of KIM DS will give you a hand, because for us European integration and the future of Serbia are something that is very important. Something we're not going to give up and we've been going through all these years. We're glad you're taking over our trusts now, our system of values, our ideals. But if you had put on a European tuxedo 23 years ago, perhaps Serbia's youth in Kosharam wouldn't be wearing masked uniforms. If you'd worn a European suit then, we might not have known there were baskets. I'm not going to ask you on behalf of what ideals did those young people die there? I'm not going to ask you if you know how hard DS has paid these efforts to get you on the European track? How many victims of our members, how many arrested, injured, beaten? Do you know how many black scarves, aunty widow and orphan's salary have been paid for missing, utopian, unrealistic politics? You know the price of your delusions? Hundreds of thousands of human lives are measured. It's a historical responsibility you can't escape from. Therefore, I repeat, I will not judge you. You have no better men than us to direct you on a European path, nor do we have any better men than you. In 1915, in the wake of major battles in World War I, three MPs of the then-Kingdom of Serbia, from opposing camps, together pulled a hoodie onto a hill that had been shot by Austrian-Hungarian machine guns and made it possible for the Serbian army to withdraw through Albania. Such a style is needed today by Serbia. Whether our hands are black, blue, yellow, bloody, blistering, warlords, workers, together to draw these cannons up the hill, not to fight the world. Today, battles are no longer won at the chase. Today, battles are won by knowledge, intelligence, intelligence. I ask you again - where have we lost 23 years? If by any chance DS had proposed such a text of the agreement today, would there be two hundred of these people in front of the Assembly or would there be 200,000 people? Would the foreign embassies burn or burn DS members at the stake? Would the Justice Minister run today to greet this enthusiasticly today? Why didn't he come out and say hello? He said he'd always come out when they got together. Here, they've gathered today. If we were in power, he wouldn't be able to speak in front of the 200 grand gathered. To remind you, the election was won in a sentence that you would annul all the agreements and agreements made by Borko Stefanovic. Today, in the negotiations, you have offered more than was required. That's not good. There must be a limit to what you accept and what you do not accept? You don't have the same vision of solving this problem. What Prime Minister Mr. Dacic and Prime Minister Vukic in London, Brussels, Washington promises in English, is that Tomislav Nikolic cannot translate into Russian, and it is necessary to translate it into Serbian and Albanian, if you want progress and understanding of the situation in which we are. You know, now that you realize that you're not going to Brussels through Karlobag, but through Horgos, when you've given up the rusty spoon policy, when you've given up being voluntary donors of other people's blood, when you realize that conflicts are settled by agreements and negotiations, and when you expect support and broad consensus for a reason, don't insult those of whom you expect support, that they're marginal, that they're irrelevant, that their opinions and their attitude are irrelevant. I guess now you understand the difficulties we faced while you were collecting buses and drawing aces to Boris Tadici Borko Stefanovic. I guess now you understand what you've been doing and how hard it is to trip people up the hill and push cannons. I guess now that you realize that the Kosovo Metohic problem is not solved by the burning of embassies, but by leaving, perhaps at the heart of these embassies, but that there is no spark at that height of these embassies that will light the fuse at the heart of your failed policies. I guess you realize it's important to give the holy hand, but before you give the world your hand and expect it all back, give your hand first to the people who sit around you. Calm down some policies. You know, I'm very concerned that the moment your Kosovo negotiations failed, you remembered the tried-out model of your political action. You've made a crisis that didn't exist in Vojvodina. You've smudged the aflatoxin jughurt and the race to Novi Sad. So you concluded with an unpleasant game of association that on the day of NDHdonet the decision to discuss the declaration at the Assembly Building in Vojvodina, Novi Sad. Now someone can find you the calendar of the worst possible events, what happened in Serbia's history on today. That's what I've prepared, but it's not appropriate for me to make such associations, to play with public opinion in this country. Today was a very unpleasant day in Serbia's history and in the memory of its citizens. Terrible things have been happening. In the Second World War today, terrible things were happening in Jasenovac, on this day there were tragedies in the First World War, in the First Balkan War, and when you reach out for such associations, you are often the victim of associations. Of course, I have to condemn another thing you've done. You turned to war with the Serbian Orthodox Church one moment. The church is separate from the state. What do you have to do with church dignitaries? Instead of having sex with them, remember the words of St. Patriarch Paul. If we don't know who we're supposed to look up to, let's look up to our enemies. They're getting more and more complicated every day, and we're getting smaller every day, and we're getting more and more fighting. Remember his words too – there is repentance for every sin. Repent, it's not hard. But again, I have to remind you, I expected that at the time of the regular session we would not take a break for three weeks, but rather make a consensus on the painful issues that await us, to make arrangements on reforming the pension system, about the laws that we must make. Wake up. Europe is not just a good wish. Europe is working hard to achieve European values. Europe is a consensus with all actors in political life, about who will take risks for painful reforms. It's not all about ratings, it doesn't have to be all about ratings. What can I tell you next? You remind me of people who have lost the best field at stake, and then invite the best agricultural expert to tell you what could have been planted here and to succeed. Let's not talk about what we don't have. Let's talk about what we can do and what a consensus we can make about what we have. I don't see any business opportunities for us to say anything about anything here today, to vote. What should we vote on? The government report. There's no vote on that in the Rules of Procedure. We do not vote on the agreement today, because if we vote on the agreement, the actual assembly can only vote on the agreement of two independent states. The government report, that's never been voted on. If you want to vote on it, my support will be hard to get. Let me tell you again, if you want to vote on reforms, to make a consensus about what we should do, how to behave in the future, how to implement what is agreed, we can, but we need to clearly define when we get out of the blizzard and the live mud, to prevent threats, that we don't get beat up by the leaders of the opposition party of the hooligans you amnesty, that we don't get your party president's message coming in threatening, that the Prime Minister's coming in threatening. We from the Democratic Party have a very painful experience when such messages have not been adequately responded. We warned you to take care of who you amnesty and what you do. There were also you who took heavy oaths when it came to Kosovo and Metohija. I'll leave your conscience to vote the way you think you should vote. I'll give you advice from my colleague, Nenad Chanka -- if you don't know how to vote, it's hard for you because of everything you've said and said, then sit on your hands a little while before you vote for a good numbing, like you voted someone else's. And for those of you who know what you're voting for and why you want to vote and what you put on the agenda, I also have a message. I've been waiting for you Monday to schedule a new session of the Assembly, to work here, not to attend such debates anymore, to honor each other with traitors. It is not pleasant for the citizens of Serbia. They watch this and the people in Republika Srpska, called them the president of the Bosnians, my best friends, the relatives of the Serbs called them Bosnians. Does this mean that these godmothers of mine from the Cave will be Kosovars? Don't, as soon as you take one step forward, take five steps back. It's a good thing he apologized at Srebrenica, which is next time for Boris Tadic. It's a good thing he's acting civilized in such a way as to calm down conflicts, not to encourage them. But it's not good for you to do things like this. I'm undermining, I don't see how you can secure a vote here, because it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. The report is received for knowledge or not received for knowledge. If you want a consensus and compromise on these painful reforms, that Serbian citizens do not have to collect humanitarian help to operate on our children, but to see how to reform the health system, pensions, to see what is on our way to Europe, indeed to do, you will have the strong support of the Democratic Party. If you don't know how to write the laws, we've already put three in the congregation procedure. Olgica Batic also, the Liberal-Democratic Party, also. Let's Monday a little less hypnotic fingers to work, and a little more work on the fingers that write the laws... . (President: Mr. Milivojevic, theme. )......................................................................................................... . And to make a consensus about it. We're ready to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15355	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15356	Madam Chairman, the Rules of Procedure under Rule 106 have been broken. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Mr Milivojevic talked for eighteen minutes about the President of the Republic of Serbia, talked about Vojvodina, read some books, mentioned the SRS, mentioned some border crossings, mentioned Bosnians, mentioned humanitarian aid, mentioned law writing, opposition leaders abroad, etc. I think you were obliged to warn him. I don't blame him personally, he doesn't even know he wasn't in the dark and that his mind is one day, so I can rest for a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15357	I agree with you, Mr. Arsic. As you could see, I warned Mr Milivojevic twice. If he'd talked more, there might have been that warning. I was simply acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you want, we can make a statement in the voting day. Thank you. The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word. Your MP group has six minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15358	Thank you. That's enough time to say what I wanted to say. Dear friends, the Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, say Latini Vox populi, vox dei - the voice of the people - the voice of God. In these circumstances, when the fate of the state is at stake, nothing more logical, nothing wiser, nothing smarter than to listen to the voice of the people. The magic word is a referendum, but a referendum on which Mr. File will certainly not define the issue, but a referendum on which Mr. Dacic and Vukic will prove their own proverbial honesty and not abuse their positions, not on television with a national frequency, but on this referendum will paint an emotional, social and political moment right now, as it is, uninvited, definitive and above all fair. As for this grumbling, as it is said in a colloquy, i.e. a kick to this unrevocable fact called the EU, I just have to express my regret that it is so and that there is not a breath of anti-cipulation in all of this, or a shred of something that represents a political kind of anti-cipulation, so let's remember that no multi-confessional empire has survived, that everything has collapsed in blood and ash. Austro-Hungarian, the imperial model that inherits the EU, builds eleven millennium towers, celebrating thousands of years of its empire. One of those millennium towers is the Sibinian Yankee tower. A few years after that, she fell apart, disappeared in blood and ash. What should happen to us to realize that Europe is a project that has failed, that it is a Titanic that is largely watery? Even that string quartet, which he played until the water reached their hips, left the ship and boarded the lifeboat, and we're the only ones who are rushing toward that Titanic. It's just us rowing in the direction of that former ship, according to those formerly fortunate owners who will soon end up at the bottom of the ocean. That's what's scary. So this is a path again without an alternative. This is an idea without a concept. What if Europe falls apart? She has already made Bulgaria happy, made Ireland happy, made Hungary happy, that's four, that's four. There's no Cypriot who doesn't curse her. There's no Irishman who doesn't curse her. There is no Spanish who doesn't curse her, and we persistently and persistently go and crash towards the EU. It's just amazing. That diary of insults we got from there has several thousand pages. That lucky girl made Syria, Libya, Iraq, Egypt happy. Should we believe that kind of happiness, for God's sake? Can a humble man be happy? There are several tracts of happiness, what it takes to be happy. Now I don't have time to talk about it. You need to spend your life with the person you love, to do the job you love, to be healthy, and you need to be dignified. Can a man who kneels and lashes of the boat be happy? Can a man depend on a full fridge? Can his happiness depend on a full refrigerator even after that refrigerator was filled by a 17 - year - old daughter whose place of work is on the street? That's what this is about, my dear friends. So it's important that a boat with pots is a lot and that's what's the point. As the great Đura Jaksic would say: "Unfortunately, we live a time of goat roasting". None of the ideals but the yoke remain for this unfortunate country. Someone said today -- MPs who were born in Kosovo. I think it's strawberry, if I'm not mistaken. Let him forgive me if I'm wrong. We were all born in Kosovo. They're writing us all the wrong information in our IDs. All of them belong to the birthplace of Kosovo and Metohija. It's a space of the Serbian state, a space of thought, emotional, poetic, political, everything that makes identity. It's Kosovo. The most beautiful Serbian songs, the most beautiful Serbian women, are born in Kosovo, the most beautiful Serbian mythologists. It's Kosovo, and now you're taking it away. There's something that's identity, something, my dear friends, that's been built for seven thousand years. As many years as civilization lasts. That and such a Kosovo, that arrogant European surgeon cut you off without anesthesia, assuring you that you are now more beautiful and healthy. Even our paramedics, our nurses, helped him with their heart, and now with a change of consciousness, as the great Europe insists, we have to agree to it as if we were us usurpers, as if we had come behind tiny horses and small cattle. It's like Gračanica is a single ivy. It's like Devich was never on the beach. It's like everything that's been taken from someone who's Serbian. That's what's the point and that's what we don't understand. Serbia will not fail if it rejects this agreement. Don't tell me we haven't been able as a thinking state, as a system of values being built in modern Europe for 200 years, to form our own state. Will we be treated if we don't join the EU, re-milled hooves and wet widows? That's bullshit. (President: Time. So, the bottom line is the next one. Those who bombed us, those who killed Serbs, those who irradiated the whole of Kosovo should now be the protectors of all this. It's contradictory, it's a paradox that's being kidnapped by common sense. They were protecting them, and on March 17th, 2004... (President: Time, Mr Kovacevic. Let me just have one sentence, please. (President: I've already allowed you half a minute longer. ) Allow me one sentence, as you have allowed Mr. Halimi, literally one sentence. So no one's luck can be seen in another's accident. Dostoevsky says, "If the fate of all mankind, the happiness of all mankind depends on one child's tears, let that child's tears not fall." We can't make Kosovo children unhappy so our children can put butter on the bun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15359	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15360	Dear members of the government, honourable fellow MPs, the previous speaker said in one part of his presentation what I wanted to begin my presentation, but I will say it in my own way, just to show that our goal is one. We may differ in ways and ways of seeing how to achieve that goal. Kosovo and Metohija are the roots of every Serb wherever he was born, wherever he lived. Kosovo and Metohija are our strongest emotions. Maybe that's why there's so much bile and so much passion in exposure. It should, but it is a matter of making a rational political decision that must be free of emotion. The government has been given a mandate to create conditions for a sustainable future of seven and a half million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, those who came out on the last list of Serbian people living in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as those of Bosniaks, Gorans, Roma, and Albanians who continue to be our citizens in our southern province. A concern for the future of the Serbian state means a crucial battle to prevent Kosovo and Metohija's final secession. In this regard, how do we prevent the self-proclaimed state from completing the process it entered in 2008 officially? The process can be completed with UN membership. Is this the way to refuse any dialogue with those who effectively control the territory of our southern province? The territory is not controlled by the Russian Federation, it is not controlled by Serbia. The influence and control of the territory are those who live there, mostly Albanians and international presence. Serbia is present in Kosovo in Metohija as much as its people are present and is able to survive and develop. We consider the only way to talk, negotiate, an agreement with those of whom depends on what is going to happen in Kosovo and Metohija. Some like it or not, it is Albanians, that is, NATO, or KFOR, that is, EULEX, or the EU. We are trying to achieve this with them to at least start to respect our national and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. Time is the best judge to show what kind of agreement this is. But what is important and what is before us, and this is just the beginning of normalisation of relations between Belgrade and Pristina, the normalisation for which Pristina would like to be between two independent states, the normalisation that is for us normalising relations with our southern province, is that, in particular, government members and those who will participate in the implementation, i.e. in application, commit to improving our current position. It's a priority now. From this defined framework, which in many respects is general, we have opportunities, if we are persistent enough, to improve the position of especially Serbs in northern Kosovo. Mr. Dacic, you will likely again play an extremely significant role in the coming period. My proposal and suggestion is to be even more persistent, even stronger, even more persistent in defending our position, to improve this agreement which is not good for us in many aspects, but which in many respects creates opportunities for us to form a community of Serb municipalities that would institutionally connect and have the capacity to fight for its place and for its impact on the processes and events in Kosovo and Metohija. The following period should improve what is not good in this Agreement and can do so through application. I am particularly pleased that, after the eighth round, our suggestions and some of our suggestions have been accepted. In the end, the Serb tree in Kosovo and Metohija, respected MPs, has been crushed to its roots through history on several occasions, so the youngsters, often at a high price, have come out. I believe that the start of an agreement with Pristina is the young man who will succeed in taking a major step backwards for the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, and at least a small step in defending vital state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, regardless of the inappropriate accusations that I did not see in 1999 in Kosovo and Metohija, where the bloodiest battles were fought. To refuse the story of us being traitors or selling Kosovo and Metohija, that we carry in our hearts is not sold, my fellow dear, and that we carried in our hearts in 1999, when bombs fell, when people lost their legs, their heads were torn apart and everything else, when we fought for our country, doesn't allow us to sell now, and it gives you at least the moral right to stamp anyone as a traitor. I deeply believe that in the coming period, Mr Dacic, you will have enough power, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with our support, to significantly improve this agreement during implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15361	MP Vojislav Vujic has a word. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15362	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the JS parliamentary group, unfortunately, only two minutes left. Once again, I will say that what is most important today is the message that the president of the JS parliamentary group Mr Dragan Markovic Palma has already said today that we will support this agreement, Brussels, Brussels Agreement, Pristina and Belgrade. I can no longer say anything new from the facts that the predecessors have already said, but today I want to send you all a message and that, Prime Minister, together with your ministers, with our government, I ask that, unless we learn from this day today, a lesson from history that we haven't had any luck with, because it's never been enough for us to learn a lesson, and that in the future, and unfortunately, even the demographic side, when it comes to geography, was not our strong suit. Please let us solve this problem by letting you, as a government, offer us here in the Assembly one strategy of the state's fight against the white plague because all the problems we're about to face are being inflicted on us by the white plague. At this point in Kosovo we have a million and a half Shipara, we have 150 thousand Serbs. At this point, we from JS, and we've been doing it since 2004, we can't do it alone in cities where we're in power to deal with the white plague, although the results have proved to be visible where we were doing it. Those are the facts on the list. Please, so that no more agreements like this happen and not come into this situation again, to divide ourselves into a minority, a majority, to those who love Serbia more or less, make that strategy as soon as possible and bring it here before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15363	Thank you. MP Dejan Radenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15364	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, as always when Kosovo is on the agenda, are always a painful debate and heavy words fall. Our people living in the area of Kosovo, who closely monitors in front of small screens everything we say here, after debates like this, I think we're killing him with some hope of survival in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. I listened very carefully to some of my colleagues today. I won't mention their names, let them identify themselves, but I can't recognize them from day to day. One morning they wake up in the Kosovo government, one morning in the Serbian government, one day they are DS members, today I can conclude they are members of the DSS. The right to tell you, I don't know what these messages are and what they want and whether they contribute to a better life and survival of the Serbian people. I think it's a good thing we're real today, that we know what we want. Unfortunately, there are those who are unreal, who do not know what they want, and fortunately for us, they are a minority. In a region today with a fellow MP, I talked about how, years ago, a traitor, a traitor, a traitor, today became easy to tell someone – a traitor. Believe me, I don't know anymore, that word "sugar" is by the way. When you have nothing to say to anyone, you say, "You are a traitor." Believe me, I wish I had been a traitor in the 1990s and I was for Plan three plus three at the time, it was an education agreement, not an organization of students and protests to be against it, blaming my government and my leadership of the state not to think about us, that he wanted to betray us, but later I realized, but it was too late, and it was already Holbrook-Milosevic's agreement, where we all worked so quickly to do something, not to come up with that scenario that, unfortunately, came up. I'd be happy to live where I was born today. I'm not saying it's impossible, it's possible, but it's not the same as it was. I wish we had accepted that then, that suggestion both of the state and government, and that we were fighting in such circumstances as in Kosovo and Metohija. Then no one was up to our knees, we thought we were the strongest, that no one could do anything to us, and then we shaved, which one song says, that pearls spread around the world, on one side, on the other side, on the other side. Some have managed, some continue to wander in collective accommodations, cannot return to their homes, and what they experience is that they are most weirded by messages coming from different governments to continuum, as they have changed in Serbia. I'll focus on one political party, I won't name it, let it be recognized which, with the help of the NATO Pact then, accusing us that we don't know, that we've confrontationd with the international community, came to power in Serbia and the SRJ. Moves that, when we start to analyze, were suicide, are said after the battle, it is easy to be a general, but not to recognise the UN, to accuse the previous state leadership of treason for the mentioned resolution, which was their later straw of salvation. Although I am also afraid of what concerns me most about Resolution 1244 is that many who talk about it have not even read it or read what they like from that resolution. What led us to what was happening today was either we didn't want to read or we didn't read. Then some felt they should not go to the elections that UNMIK organised, so they quietly approved the transfer of powers that went to Kosovo and Metohija's independence, so they were against the elections, and then at the last minute they said they needed to go to elections and there was no fear. I can't read now and quote some colleagues who were then advisors to the Prime Minister of the federal government, and later ministers in charge of the portfolio. We had the result of these elections to the "Return" coalition in Kosovo's parliament. At the time, we had two ministers in the Kosovo government, one was from the DS, and the other was from the DSS. As a member of the SPS that was then in opposition, I expected SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica to do much more for the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija because of good relations with Javier Solana and others who helped him to come to power then. Unfortunately, everything happened the other way around. After all these wrong moves today, we're right where we are. I would have had a lot to list and a lot of cases where the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija were sacrificed from telling someone at night what would happen tomorrow, not to tell people but to experience what we experienced in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica in court, and the day before that, a high-ranking official sits with UNMIK officials to many, many other cases. It is all the sacrifice of the Serbian people in the interest of what is said to be higher goals. In the end, it turns out they're not state interests. Now the problem is that someone betrayed something. Today I told a countryman from northern Mitrovica who was on the KIM Committee that the presidents of the municipalities should of course accept responsibility, in a way they are responsible for the people in the territory of their municipalities, but they also have to accept responsibility for that people if anything unkind happens to that people. In 1999, I witnessed that many officials, many of the presidents of the municipalities were able to manage and settle in their apartments and hire their children, and the people who were people saw where they were and what they were. They were the first to lead the column and said it had to go – run, they'll kill us all. The easiest thing to say is, it's the easiest thing to do is to panic and fear with the people. When we talk about what we want and what we don't want. Some remember here, older than me, participated in the Vienna negotiations if I can call them there, and then the Kosovo side takes out lists of Serbs who receive salaries from Kosovo institutions, and then our side. from Belgrade, people sitting on the negotiating team are surprised because those from Kosovo don't tell them. Then if we come to the sights of these lists, then we see women of high-ranking officials receiving salaries from the Kosovo government, from our government, and then I wonder if we are respectful, whether we are honest in this fight that we fight against the recognition of Kosovo institutions. In northern Mitrovica in front of the PIO Fund of Kosovo, everyone is in a column to apply for pensions. Let's talk about the deal. Albanian intellectuals are seriously against this agreement, they say they do not like it, that Hashim Thaci is forced to sign something that is not good for their independent Kosovo. They say: Yours are sincere, they say what they have signed, but unfortunately the Serbs do not trust them. Some don't believe them, and I think those who don't believe are politically motivated and motivated by some personal interests, there are no other things. You know, when you get out of your chair, for years you've been holding power in one territory, in a controlled mess, you don't admit either one or the other, you admit one as well as you do, and then the second, of course, it would be the nicest thing to do. There's no payment of anything, it's one chaos, and the result is just our people who live in such circumstances. When we talk about reality, I used to say it, and then they accuse me again of being a NATO mercenary and everything, but believe me, that's the case. The same time I thought Serbs needed it a few years ago, because they talked to me, that they needed to go to those local elections for decentralised municipalities, so that someone wouldn't go out there by accident, so they watched him for four years to manage the municipality. Then the attitude was not to go out, so some Serbs who went out there were necessarily evil. What necessary evil? Nice, when something needs the state of Serbia to send down it can't help Serbs if one of those presidents of the municipality doesn't accept that for that municipality, and our municipalities, with all due respect, however much I love them and as much as they are state and Serbian and whatever you want to call them, it can't, it's just not real. They don't have any executive authority. What are we going to do, live on in that illusion, the illusion, whatever anyone here says? We won't, because that people down there just don't expect that from us. We can no longer play with the fate of the people and that's what the Prime Minister said well and I think it's for all due respect. It's the easiest thing to criticise. You criticize, you attack, you spit, and you forget and you want to hide what you're responsible for. That someone who's in power now has no other way out, and there's no other way because some of them already have some time. The hasty demand of the International Court of Justice's opinion, and someone throws it – the question is how was it, anyway, so the UN Assembly resolution that surrenders hastily, and then changes, all of these people are my serious mistakes. That's not good. Just as it's not good to say that it won't go to the elections, and then in northern Kosovo, they secretly prepare voter lists, and then the members of one party come out, and then the presidents of those municipalities from that party, and here they are today when they check, I think they've been receiving and having an extended mandate since 2002, so RIK extended them to six months, and I think they're still getting paid from Kosovo institutions, and here they're fighting for the rights of the Serb people and telling empty stories lie to them, I can freely tell them that they're lying. It is not true, Serbs in KIM have to trust their government, have to trust their president, have to trust their Prime Minister, have to trust their ministers. There's no other way. There's no other luck in their survival. That government, that state top is on top of the hill and sees beyond them. The problem is, and I'm telling you quite frankly, from some experience, I can't be told by some who, and I have to use that little joke. Some of my colleagues saw Albanians only when they came to Pristina to buy shoes, because in their places in northern Kosovo, unfortunately, there was no such thing. There was no shoe store and they didn't have a chance to meet the Albanians, I understand them and understand their fear. I also understand the fear of Serbs from northern Kosovo to accept these Kosovo institutions because even Serbs living south of Ibra see that nothing has been implemented since what was written in Ahtisaari, and now it has been translated into Kosovo's laws. I think this agreement gives Serbs the first chance to make their own decisions, important to their survival and to arrange life in the environments where they live. From how they organize and live and how much power they will have, their political capacity is very important. He's not small if we get organized properly. That political capacity of theirs, that we won't talk again about not going back to our missed chances, if they're compatible now, they can fight for complete security. With the help and protection I will have from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, after 14 years it should provide a normal life without fear and have a perspective for faster development. This agreement removes fear and danger from incidents directed against Serbs. The agreement provides a higher degree of protection for the population south of Ibra, we must not forget them, there are two-thirds of them, we must not just throw these people away, and they are Serbs. Wherever a Serb lives, I guess we should fight for that man and for his survival. In schools, most importantly because it rises and manipulates students, schools and universities will learn from Serbia's programmes, which removes the problem and the dangers of these assimilations. Serbs become, again, if they are unique in protecting their interests, not a pervasive decision-making factor in Kosovo's space. We must look to the future... (President: Time. I'm done. We must look to the future, not to the day-to-day political interests. This is the way for Serbia to strengthen and to be strong, to help the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija more, to launch the return processes. I thank you. I'm sorry I overstepped.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15365	Thank you. The word is Mr Samardzic, a replica, as head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15366	Although this speech, Mr Radenkovic, was very confusing and was very difficult to follow, it was still seen that he with a lot of insinuation and alludation spoke about the functioning of some previous authorities in Kosovo and Metohija and at one point he mentioned me, even though he mentioned the name to me, but he made it clear enough that it was evident that he was thinking of me. Namely, he said that at a time when there was an attack on the Mitrovica court, the day before that, representatives of the government sat with UNMIK, he said. Indeed, I was then as a representative of the government, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, as I was often in Kosovo at the time, I had that evening on 16 March 2007, a meeting with UNMIK representative, with Mr. Larry Rosin, who replaced Special Representative Joachim Riker. We then handed him some documents and planned to go to Moleban in Gracanica the anniversary of the pogrom, and then the news came a little earlier that there was a fight in Mitrovica between the people and the police of Kosovo and the UNMIK army, which arrested judges. He who followed these events is clear to him what was done then in Mitrovica, and perhaps if someone took more care of what was happening, he knows what my role was at that moment, since I was there and was constantly in touch with Larry Rossin. Thanks to these interventions and to the calming of the people, but also to the siege of the court, we have managed to exercise both Albanian authority and UNMIK power to bring back all judges. So it's an event that's been said like this, the speech pretends that I was in Kosovo and met with UNMIK while they attacked the Mitrovica court. It really doesn't make sense, that way you can't talk here, and I really had to protest because it's one lie, and otherwise in the speech of the gentleman I'm trying to learn how to speak, it's been an extremely long time these last 15 minutes. That would be a lot more to say, but one example of this is, I think, enough to illustrate such a way of addressing the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15367	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15368	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this day is not a day for hard words, this session is no ordinary session, and it seems to me that most of the MPs were careful not to say the hard words. It was the afternoon of those who were returning to the '90s. Fortunately, however, there were few. This is a session where both the position and the opposition, if they cannot achieve full unity, should at least agree on one fact that what is on the agenda today is a very serious issue, that the position of Serbs, the position of Kosovo and Metohija is a national issue. If it is a national issue, it should bear the responsibility of the most significant political entities and try to discuss the issue in such a way as not to go towards making cheap political points, but to try to find a minimum of common interests that would ultimately result in a single position either through a vote, either through support for what is called an agreement or support for the report. Let me remind you, that is, to remind us all together, today we have a report on the current process of political and technical dialogue with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina with the intervention of the EU, including the process of implementation of the agreements reached. As my colleague Borko Stefanovic said, 98% of the report refers to dialogue before this agreement. The last page is, we could say, the key, is an agreement that the Serbian government has initialled with temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, but still to remind ourselves that we are today pleading on the overall negotiation process, and thus also on this agreement. So we need, as far as possible, a joint assessment of this document. We must go from some not so long ago historical experiences that unfortunately teach us that we must think beyond the interests of political parties, so not only do we have the interest of political parties and their ratings. It wasn't that long ago in 1995, it wasn't that long ago, it wasn't that long ago, it wasn't that long ago that fate hit the Republic of Serbia's Krajina. We went, then power, by the principle of a final act, and I won't mention who then destroyed power in this country. Unfortunately, it produced columns of refugees, exiles. This led to the fact that 40,000 homes, houses, apartments were destroyed and that between 25% and 30% of the population returned to their homes. Unfortunately, the structure of these returnees is very bad. Most of the time, old people came back. I don't want to talk about the very bad forecasts and perspectives of that area that these people had to escape from. It's probably clear to everyone what I'm trying to say. We as the Democratic Party are the responsible party. We're not going after national ratings. We would not want "Storm" or some similar elemental disaster to be repeated in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the Democratic Party believes that we should not vote on this issue, but rather see if such a danger exists. It's hard to say it doesn't exist. It is difficult for someone with certainty to say that there is no such thing as the Democratic Party when considering on its bodies this agreement was not quite sure that it was ideal, far from that. It could be said that this agreement is the achievement of the circumstances of perhaps a poor negotiating team, perhaps poor political circumstances, and that is irrelevant. The deal's right here in front of us. We're here in front of the wall, we've got nowhere else to go, and the only thing we don't need right now is empty flossules. It's a demagogue we have, unfortunately, listened to these days at the time of these negotiations. There were a lot of stories about unimportant things -- how wide the halls were, how large were the rooms where our delegation was sitting, how comfortable the chairs were, the fact that some had to rest on the floor, the fact that they were talking in what tone, if someone was taking off their jacket. I don't think those are the things that interest our people, or the people of Kosovo. I don't think they care if anyone on the negotiating team stayed hungry that day, and there was a story about it. Many people are hungry in Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately in Serbia as well. Unfortunately, money for folk cuisine in Kosovo and Metohija is being collected in front of the second diary. I think the one who said he was hungry there for two days was supposed to think about it and talk about the fact that no one should be hungry in Serbia or in Kosovo or Metohija. That's why we think this agreement is important and it is something we need to reach an agreement on. When it comes to the scale of the agreement, I think there are four things, in my opinion, vague, not here, and I don't want any of the situations that we've had to look at again. It's the status of this community of municipalities. Under the Erdut Agreement, which integrates Slavonia and Baranja into Croatia's legal system, the establishment of a common larger municipality that was or should make up Serb municipalities from the area was envisaged. Do you know what that looked like, like, a year and a half ago, two? I was the co-chair of the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee on Minority Rights, so I had the opportunity to discuss these topics. This joint larger Serb municipality is a bull in the status of an NGO. As a beekeeper's cooperative, as an association of fishermen, it was registered in that register. The funding was not resolved. It was not resolved even if the municipality could be shut down due to some circumstances unless it met the conditions applicable to NGOs. In this regard, I ask the Prime Minister to look at the fact that the Serb municipalities' union in Kosovo and Metohija will have legal status in the coming period. One is an agreement, and the other is a legal basis and a legal basis on which the community will rest. The other thing, someone has already mentioned it, are guarantees, NATO's oral guarantees that if the Kosovo army is formed, it will not reach the north. I didn't see it in this agreement. I understand these are oral guarantees. We remember the oral and written annexes of the Kumanovo Agreement that have never been realised. To mention sending 1,000 soldiers to the borders of Kosovo and Metohija. That question should be put in some document. I don't know what document that is, but a document that will be more than an oral arrangement in such an uncomfortable room. The third thing that recent history teaches us again is the issue of criminal prosecution of people from the north of Kosovo, and there is no such thing in this agreement, regarding possible non-compliance with Kosovo laws that can be of various kinds – from participation in, it could be categorized, informal formations to some other possible persecutions. I think that should be specified in the next period of implementation. The fourth issue concerns future parliamentary elections, republican, presidential elections -- will it be possible down there, in the present state of affairs, not to go further into maybe new arrangements, to organise elections not as in the neighbouring country, but to open polling stations in each local community, in every village in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? These are some of the questions that I thought were important to distract. I'd like to try to refrain from pathetics, from demagogy, from some things that I didn't like, reminding me of a political game, as to, say, the resignations of one of the members of the negotiating team, so the next day information that the office will be lifted. It kind of looks like an unexperienced show to me. I don't think we need that right now. I'm not quite sure. Maybe it's really a political reality that a member of the negotiating team and his party won't support this agreement, but it doesn't seem that way or I don't see it that way. With this situation in mind, such a situation, possible repercussion, the Democratic Party will support, with all possible fences of individual MPs, this agreement and thus once again demonstrate its responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15369	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15370	I thank the esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, government representatives, when it comes to issues that are highly political issues and issues concerning state and national interests, there is always a danger, and we unfortunately have slipped down today to make two mistakes. On the one hand, it's easy to get into the enthusiasm of national pathetics and pathos to get political points, perhaps at some point, honestly, although at this point, I'm quite suspicious of it, and on the other hand, to go to some kind of pragmatic problem-solving and therefore really untasteful exaltation. I don't think there's any way we should be handling either of these two bad manners of political performance today. These are very suspicious ethical principles in politics, especially when it comes to such important issues. That's why I really think it's an unacceptable situation in parliament today, to hear the words of high treason, betrayal and all that comes from those parties that have always been in power in one way or another in the last 12 years. Fully relaxed and completely freed, I can tell you, since I wasn't part of any of these authorities, that everyone was more or less involved in creating conditions for solutions that some, in part, rightly criticise today, the other one with the right again, and I would say more with the right to declare something that is less evil. If we were to manage pure pragmatism, I have no problem saying it, and I'm really going to say it openly, I think this agreement is more than any of us could have expected. Why do I think that? First, the political aspect of paraphrased framework principles refers to several things. Although in public and even in this congregation today it is mentioned that a certain agreement has been initialled, I would also like to introduce a wording precision. So no agreement has been signed, the agreement has yet to be agreed, the text that has been initialled in fact represents a platform, the framework principles for harmonising the upcoming agreement, and that is what the problem is, because it will be extremely painful and difficult work. The future agreement must be defined literally in detail, as it depends on what integrity Serbia will manage to maintain in the north of KIM. That is why I would like a little more precision in discussions than in high treason, betrayal and all the other labels that raise national pathetics at the moment when eight million people in Serbia live on the edge of existence, which is also not demagogy, but unfortunately is the reality and because we have to sometimes manage state interests to narrow down the resonance politically and go along some path that sometimes works and cruelly. Here's why I'm going to explain why it seems cruel and why we need to talk about it openly. The framework principles that have been initialled are an excellent basis for the future agreement to once become a special status for the north of KIM. That's what nobody was talking about, and where's the responsibility except Belgrade? The responsibility is for those who will exercise local authority over Kosovo, who should show seriousness and unity, and not to reject such important reach as it is, as a difficult solution for the whole nation and for all Serbia, so they reject the apriors. It's strictly against it, and I haven't heard a good argument about it. Based on the current state of affairs and looking at the aspect of authority of local government, these framework principles provide an excellent basis for the political implementation of the status that exists at local level, someone mentioned as an attempt to reach southern Tyrol. Why isn't it Southern Tyrol? Because on central competences, the situation here is different from the region mentioned, but in the future it can be expected that these powers will gradually expand, if and if those who are the holders of local authorities are responsible, with the support of Belgrade. The effect of this effect is important and I think you can talk about it. I don't know how much it's instructions to talk about it in public, some people will say -- how you can talk about it in public, maybe it's a plan or strategy. Let's open our eyes to people, let's see if this plan offers anything in the future, not immediately and not tomorrow, if we're responsible and if we're rational. Again, I must stress that this depends solely on the ability of local representatives of the Serb community to make a breakthrough in the institutions of the international community and to take advantage of the opportunity provided, not to reject it in advance and reject it. The second thing I'd like to talk about is that paraphrase of framework principles is a evasive trap of amendment 1244, which is not irrelevant and not irrelevant, and maybe it's the most important thing. Although it currently represents a dead letter on paper, it represents certain guarantees for the future in this context that I was just talking about. In terms of the 3rd point of this Agreement, which I think is extremely good and favourable, although we need additional guarantees for it, it is important to create a buffer or a demilitarized zone, i.e. not to allow the entry and stay of Kosovo's security forces in the Serbian municipalities. It's an extremely important point of this agreement. It's the key to the future agreement. I think that here should be very wise and cautious because remember that the Government of Kosovo has been adapting its constitution since 2011 to have control over the entire KIM territory. As a result, the possible ban on the operation of Kosovo security forces in the north of KiM had to insist, as the previous counterpart spoke, on a kind of guarantee and agreement with NATO on Serbia's signing of a possible agreement or a common agreement, a special agreement guaranteeing this security framework. I think we need to talk a little bit more responsibly today and not go into the wrong direction of national consciousness, especially with citizens of Serbian nationality in the north of KIM. Why would I think that? There's an example that may not be that good, but I think it'll show what I want to say. It is that if you have one train that should reach its destination, to some destination, and in the case of our train is an EU destination, together a part of the passenger who constantly pulls the hand brake and stops the train. The point in solving this problem is that Albanians should be allowed passengers to pull a hand brake rather than Serbia, or you might think the other way around. I don't mean the other way around. But I would like someone to prove convincingly to me that the interests of Kosovo Albanians are more than the interests of Serbian citizens. In my view, it is a danger for Serbia to join the EU at the same time with Kosovo. I think it is a great danger, because that is by no means what we are doing to improve our position or improve our ability to expand our competences and to strengthen our community in northern Kosovo. But, well, here the demagogy has given way to political analysis and common sense. On the basis of framework principles, membership in the UN has been prevented. Had it not been for the initialisation of such a future agreement, it has threatened a certain danger for the next negotiations to be imposed by someone outside the EU and I believe that then the serious lobbys that exist would have taken the absolute initiative towards our damage, and that is why it seems to me that the Kosovo side has constantly obstructed the achievement of an EU-led solution and has deliberately obstructed the negotiation process. Therefore, I think our negotiating team has succeeded in achieving this, not necessarily, but a great success. If negotiations had failed, I really think that Serbia would have lost its credibility and that even some sanctions would have been imposed on us, which would have hit the worst in the economy anyway. When I say sanctions, I don't mean maybe literally, but what does it mean to cancel a contract? Reduced investment and anything to project a better future, an economic future for citizens in Serbia. That is why I think that we should move towards EU membership at a third speed, so we should take the moment to improve our position and thus also give a better position to Serbs in northern Kosovo. One more thing I'd also like to mention, which several colleagues here have mentioned, a frozen conflict. Here's what I think of the frozen conflict, and I hope most people share that opinion. So, dear our countrymen from northern Kosovo, instead of taking these domains for granted, and nobody here is happy, nor satisfied, but it is something that is realistic and that represents some serious shift, instead of accepting a conversation about it, instead of allowing a joint performance to continue to advance the Serb community in northern Kosovo, here is a demand for the freezing of a conflict where all responsibility would be in Serbia. I responsibly claim that the frozen conflict does not correspond to Serbia. Who among us can deal with the issue of Kosovo and Metohija for 20 more years, while Serbia remains out of European flows, outside of integration and remains isolated? Serbia cannot protect only the interests of 50 or 70,000 Serbs from northern Kosovo, while ignoring the interests of its eight million inhabitants. If it's hard to tell someone, then we don't have elementary solidarity, understanding and empathy towards each other, no matter what part of our territory is in trouble, to express myself in a colloquial way. The agreement is good to the extent that it allows for the sustainable survival of the Serb community in northern Kosovo and Metohija and paves the way for the creation of a prerogative to gain some once special status. Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija must be spoken to. I saw the highest representatives of our executive authority today. They need to be explained this idea. I don't see that Serbia has another way out, except to become or, if you will, remain the most backward country in the region. It's about the agreement itself. A few things I'd just like to mention in relation to the presentation of colleagues from opposition parties, first of all, this teaching on patriotism. You know, I live a perfectly normal life in my country as a majority of citizens, and I don't want my lessons to be taught by those who are on virtual reality, who have been responsible for getting personal ones, and I don't want to say existential ones, have long overcome the existential problems, which, with comfortable positions, with serious zoning and serious accounts, explain the really endangered, impoverished and dissuaded Serbs in northern Kosovo as Belgrade betrays them. It's inadmissible, it's hypocritical and it's irresponsible. That's why I won't go any further to my colleagues who have explained it that way. I welcome and respect the right to attitude and opinion, but I do not think that this type of hypocrisy contributes to constructive solutions, and in particular does not contribute to a better future for all of us living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15371	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15372	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been a lot of difficult decisions in this assembly and a lot of sad days. I believe today is one of those days. But personally, I think it's better to grieve than to cultivate unrealistic illusions. I know, before I say a few words about the proposal for this agreement, that from this moment on, one citizen of Serbia will place me as traitors, but I don't want through this exhibit to defend neither the agreement nor the signatories, or the members of our negotiating team. I want to defend the reality in which we live. If we were a rich country and had powerful allies, I would side with those who suggest today that this agreement should never be accepted. But you know very well that's not the case. Serbia can no longer be a hostage to unrealistic and empty policies on Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia cannot and must not sacrifice its future for the sake of imposing some unreasonable from Kosovo and Metohija, who do not realize that we are small and powerless and that there is too little justice in international relations today. Can we, ladies and gentlemen, protect the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija? We cannot, as we cannot solve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija without an international community. So, however unfair, we must also respect the international community's views. The government took a unique stance and supported the agreement. What kind of country are we if we don't trust our own government? Here, in the discussions of the predecessors, a little reference was made to the concrete solutions of the agreement. Here, Mr. Prime Minister, following the implementation of this agreement, I would point to some of the things that matter. There's been a lot of talk about bad solutions. I'll also tell you later what this agreement brings. My question is -- who gives consent to the establishment of statutes of the Serb municipalities community in Kosovo and Metohija? It's a very important question. If the authorities in Pristina do so, then the statute will also be limited to the interests of Kosovo institutions. One of the provisions of the proposed agreement says that the Serb municipalities community has full control over economic development, education, health care, urbanism and regional development. Terminologically, if we interpret surveillance, it means that in those areas listed by neither the Assembly nor the executive community of Serb municipalities has a key role, but controls what central authorities in Pristina will apply. Personally, I think there is room for this to be arranged differently through the implementation of the agreement in favour of the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija. I will agree with some of the predecessors, one that should not have been entirely in the proposal for this agreement, that no party to the agreement will interfere with each other when entering the EU or European integration. You know, local communities and cities don't enter the EU. Countries are entering the EU. I therefore think that this preamble is too high, i.e. this position that has been put into the proposal for an agreement. There's been a little discussion here about what we're getting through this agreement. In short, I would like to present what the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija is getting from the proposal for this agreement. For the first time, the termological community of Serb municipalities is used as a single entity. So far, it has existed in some form, when it comes to northern Kosovo. These four municipalities were in an organisational, territorial, and other respects of the whole. Were those municipalities south of Ibra? They were fragmented, divided into several enclaves or entities, and for the first time, termologically introduced and all these municipalities are united through one community of Serb municipalities, a new quality in the proposed agreement. It is ensured that the community decides on some very important issues for the life of Serbs in Kosovo. The survival of Serbs at KIM is ensured. NATO's alliance guarantees are provided that Kosovo security forces will not be present in northern Kosovo. Well, isn't that enough? There was fear of a special unit incursion to Rosa. Can Serbia respond to such security risks, to repeat the incursion of special Kosovo units into enclaves that are inhabited by Serbian living? What is most important and what has been said here is to ensure that we are not expelled from the game of further KIM negotiations. I think that's the key quality of this proposed agreement. I personally think and call, time will show, but I think we should be unique about accepting such an agreement, because, no matter how cynically someone here has said, it's much better than what was in the eighth round of negotiations. I think that is enough and I am grateful to both the government and the negotiating team, that there are a lot of good solutions and a lot of good grounds for further negotiations on KIM's final status, and I hope that in time we will be able to bring back the issue of EU KIM resolution to the UN through our allies. Mr Stefanovic explains to me how, and I think that we are now struggling and that we have the consequences of what was done in 2008, when the issue of resolving Kosovo's status has been moved from the UN to the EU and now, simply, we have this problem and I think that this is a fatal mistake and all that follows and the consequences that we have today are precisely the consequences of such a very wrong process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15373	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15374	The Honorable Chairman, a respected prime minister, respected ministers and colleagues, today we have opened up to who knows the most important historical issue of all Serbian citizens, and that is, in general, a matter of work, life and history that we now, in a way, create for the future, and that is the life of people and life, above all, of the Serbian population in AP KIM. What we have to say, and so far we've heard a lot about the agreement. We are today declaring the report that the government is submitting on how the negotiation process has passed in general with Pristina, with the EU's intervention. We've heard a little about this today. We've heard more about the deal. I'll try only briefly, I won't keep you very long, to remind you of some facts that are simply irrefutable. Today it is easy to be a nationalist and say – there is no need to talk to Pristina at all, there is nothing to be done, there is nothing to let time pass, so if some historic moment is acquired, Serbs are strengthened, then we will transform our economy and then we will simply strengthen it. It's just impossible. No one can help us if we don't help ourselves. Here's what we can do with it, very simple conclusions. At the time of old Yugoslavia, we are aware that in general the area of KiM is rich in natural resources and we are aware that at the time of the old Yugoslavia it was indeed a centre of events in relation to the transfer of different types of pro-Western technologies, with the possibility of opening new factories, new jobs and producing those products that could be placed on the eastern market. The Serbs were then the leading managers of such firms during the old Yugoslavia. It was the time of the '80s, which I'm talking about. At the time, both Albanians and Roma loved to be deputies and directors, to participate in the management and to run such enterprises. Today, if we look at more recently, after 2000 to 2013, we can only look at existing statistics, which are very harsh, to ask the question – how many new jobs are opened for Serbs? How many Serbs, after all, are left to work in some new factories and in some new businesses? If we consider that the south of Ibra is about 90,000 Serbian people, and in northern Kosovo there are 40,000 inhabitants, it is very important at the moment that the number of Serbs remain to work and live on the territory. The national issue today is primarily a demographic issue in Serbia, and then an economic issue, and then a political issue, whether it is both political and demographic and economic together. What we need to say is that this report shows that there has really been a lot of talk during the last government, but the real conclusions and, practically, the arrangements for the future were set only when the new government started talking. I'll prove it to you. If you looked a little bit better at this report, let's say about education, about the certification of diplomas, you can see from the reports that this is just happening, this process, after July 2012. The part that is very interesting, which is telecommunications and energy, shows that in the talks in November and January -- March, practically the other side did not attend those meetings and did not want to discuss it. You know what, we happen to have strong Kosovo Albanian delegations coming to Brussels at certain conferences with KIM and that even their embassy secretaries are coming, because Brussels has recognised Kosovo and has its own embassy. It's always been devastating for us. Because of this, this way that this government has chosen and this path that it has set out to do so has practically gone from defensive to offensive because it wants to take fate into its own hands. By standing in place, tapging, not taking any action, we are practically doing nothing for Serbia in Belgrade or for Serbia in Kosovo Mitrovica, but for those Serbs still living in Pristina. There may be few, but we must not forget them. Thus, what the congregation’s majority today needs to be declared is to support this report, not simply to allow with its full support any advances in the division of the people. There are no patriots and traitors, because we've divided long enough, long enough. After the war, we divided into Serbs and Kosovars, and then the Kosovos divided into the natives and Montenegrins, and then we split into southern and northern Serbs in Kosovo. There's been a lot more division, divisions can't exist. Serbs will be unique in their decisions and in the referendum and after the referendum, because it is in the interest of all of us, both in Belgrade and those in Pristina and those in Kosovo Mitrovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15375	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. You've got five minutes and 50 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's what's happening in the Assembly, a little emotion, a little political interest, but it's not bad to remember what we're really doing today. Today's topic is to discuss the report on what our country's representatives have been empowered by this assembly that voted for a resolution on the basics to try to change the way, the role, in terms of Serbia's activities in the process of solving a whole series of problems concerning Kosovo and Metohija and citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija. In that sense, of course, we're going to listen here and listen that this is the day of judgment, that's the date that starts with something, so we hear it every three months here, that this is the date that something breaks. Please, neither is it a subject nor is it a date, and those who understand and respect Matija Bećković, I don't understand why they don't respect and what he said long ago, and that is that every fool is a prophet to this country, only if he speaks - this is a judgment and this is a great evil, then when you're right. But this isn't the place. Here we are just talking about whether the authorised representatives of the executive authority, in accordance with the resolution voted by this assembly, acted within the framework of this Resolution. It is natural then, or it would be natural for all those who voted for that resolution to vote for this report as well. It's good if someone changes their mind who didn't vote for that resolution, because he didn't agree with it, and now he believes he has a reason to agree. In order to be clear, I did not vote for this Resolution, not because I did not agree with the Resolution, but because it meant that there was still some paper behind which I looked at and in which unfortunately legally there are inadequate terms, for which someone who held to the seriousness of the oath, if he was familiar with those terms could not vote. Doesn't mean people were familiar with the follow-up non-paper that went behind the Resolution. But now that the Assembly has empowered our representatives to do so, and it is good that both the President and the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have participated in this, it is up to us to determine whether this Resolution is respected, because that is the way it begins, and as we can see in reality, it has already begun a process for which the result, of course and negotiators, and anyone who is really serious in this assembly, we have to be concerned. Because of course this is Serbia, this is the Balkans, this is politics, we do not solve history, although we do wish, as Mr Ilic has said for years to resolve the issue which is the Serbian issue, to resolve the issue which is European, which is an Albanian issue and to resolve the agreement between the Serbian and Albanian people. But this isn't the deal. Just as deception and ignorance is a miracle that this is the first agreement of the species between the Serbian and Albanian people. Hundreds of agreements between the Serbian and Albanian people on large issues have been made, and this is about a symbolic one concerning the work of authority and jurisdiction in the part of the territory where most are made up of Serbs. If anyone is representing, I represent the consistent belief that KIM is an integral part of Serbia and I have to take care of all the citizens of that work. There's no luck for the Serbs at Kim if we're making obstacles... I end in 30 seconds, play football or participate in the festivals of our citizens, our fellow Albanians. I must say, the church expressed its concern for a reason long ago. I remind you originally what that concern is. The wisest Serbian patriarch, Mr. Paule, said that when you make policy decisions, take care of the basic principle in the Bible – whose flock is that and the mountain, you will take care of that principle and you will find ways. Now that we've started this process, we're going to find this path, I don't know, but it's an obligation to respect a topic that's now on the agenda and not to make it big or small but exactly what it is and to say that this isn't victory, it's not history, but it is a process that begins and let us do everything to be done as I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15377	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has already been said many times that the SNS will support this report and this agreement. What I especially want to point out is that I really admire the heads of our delegation, Mr Dacic and Mr Vukic in what circumstances they have come to these agreements and that is something that I think we all forgot today when we discussed here. Everyone used emotions today, argued sometimes, which is certainly not good in one such situation, but we completely forgot that the whole world of minority was against Serbia in one such negotiating process and that thanks to one patience, the maximum tenacity of our negotiating team could have come to this result. To be perfectly honest, it is not easy to conduct negotiations when the world's largest states have already recognised Kosovo. Let us not forget, and this is our reality, that Kosovo has recognised both America, France, Turkey, Great Britain, Australia, Germany, Costa Rica, Afghanistan, Albania, Senegal, Lithuania, Denmark, Estonia, Italy, Luxembourg, Peru, Belgium, Poland, Switzerland, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Holland, Iceland, Slovenia, Finland, Japan, Monaco, Hungary, Croatia, Bulgaria, South Korea, Norway, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Colombia, Portugal, Montenegro, Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, these are the same ones that are investing in us today, Malaysia, Panama, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, New Zealand, Honduras, Qatar, Nigeria, Kuwait and 51 other countries on this list that I have now read. As a lawyer, I must note that our negotiating team has had a situation where more than half of the recognised states of the international community have already recognised Kosovo. I must note that our negotiating team had one unpleasant situation, which is that the International Court of Justice gave a positive position two years ago, for us a negative position, which is that Kosovo declared its independence in accordance with international law. The day that that verdict was passed as a lawyer I was desperate and I realized that the definitely international law that I studied at college obviously didn't work. I think the question was well asked. I think then the Foreign Ministry and Mr. Vuk Jeremic fought well, but realistically, we lost that dispute. Now that we add that, apparently, a good part of the international community has put a great deal of pressure on our negotiating team headed by Mr Dacic and Mr Vukic, when we realize that we have already had the ruling of the International Court of Justice, the question is, could a better agreement have been reached? I can see from today's discussion that a better agreement could not be reached. I understand emotions. I understand that some are against this agreement for emotional reasons. While I'm speaking here, I'm sure I can take my emotions back because my father is from Kosovo, he was born in Peca, but today I don't have any relatives in Kosovo anymore because they're either killed or expelled. I also remember trying other methods to fight. In the 1990s, there were wars that we mostly lost. Thanks to such politics, more than half of my generation and people who are a little younger or a little older today don't live in Serbia. They've gone head-to-head, and we've come to a situation where we live in one of Europe's poorest countries. For these reasons there have been some changes in 2000, there has been a new policy that has led to, here we see how far. This impossible situation is when we talk about the international situation, it is an impossible situation when we talk about international law for our negotiating team. I'm sure he's got the most of it. As far as the legal aspects of the deal are concerned, let's get this straight one more time. I'm careful as a lawyer, I don't have to as an SNS MP, read the agreement, and, I'm sorry, I don't see Serbia recognising Kosovo anywhere. I can't see anywhere that Serbia is obliged to recognise Kosovo at any time. I wish one of the lawyers would tell me otherwise, not in a false way alarming the citizens or telling all sorts of nonsense. We heard today, except for emotions that I can understand, and a lot of criticism. We're criticizing, but we don't have a counterproposal. For these reasons we need to support this agreement, we need to support our negotiating team. They were brave, they were persistent, they led to a peace-guaranteed solution, they led to a solution that guarantees that some future generations, unlike mine and many of the generations present here, would not have to fight, to flee from Serbia, to head off regardless. They also gave the possibility to economic development, both our people in Kosovo and the whole of Kosovo, paved Serbia's path to the EU. If anyone's got a better idea, go ahead. We must separate our emotions aside, no matter how easy it is for them to pull us back, but I am certainly convinced that the vast majority of this agreement will already be supported today, that is, the report on this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15379	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15380	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Prime Minister, ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow Members, we are slowly bringing to an end today's very comprehensive debate on the Government's Report on the negotiations, namely the initialled agreement between the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the authorities from Pristina. So, after some beginnings of heated debates, emotions, political perhaps hasty moves and statements, somehow we all go to that conclusion that we can freely say that this agreement is truly historic and that we are witnesses and participants in creating a new, more positive policy and picture of Serbia that we should send to Serbian citizens tonight, who listen to us closely, I hope, and people in the world. So, this historic note is really decorated in the parade that was put on the agreement by the prime minister of our government and a representative of Pristina. I would call this agreement a serious milestone, because before this, it's centuries ago, let's say, we reduce it to a multi-party period, ten years of negative conflict relations, and for the first time in this country, we have politicians who run this country, lead this government, represent executive power, who have really political courage and who are aware that politics, policy-making, not some politics, but a permanent decision-making process, a decision-making process in which you should have a position in which you know to say when you're against, and that for everything you propose to the Assembly, what you suggest to Serbian citizens, to accept, to take, and to stand behind those decisions with your responsibility. We are all witnesses, because there is no one here almost in parliament who has once not led this state or has been in parliament and has made some legislative decisions, that most politicians have never wanted it and that it has always been nicer and more comfortable in this country that you never make any serious decisions, or, if you have to do something, to make some meaningless decisions. We had a prime minister who made weight decisions in two of his mandates, I would call it the name of a film, "The impact of gamma air on shelter on the innocent", because he knew it was much more popular when you don't decide anything and when big questions, such as the issue of resolving Kosovo and Metohija, are something that is better to remain forever in undefined condition and how his MPs like to say in a constantly frozen political conflict. In the past 20 years, Serbia, for example, marked the rule of such politicians in 2000. I am truly pleased that I am part of the ruling majority and that this ruling majority does not adorn such a quality. I said that we have the Prime Minister, and the Deputy Prime Minister, the people, the politicians who have the political courage to say that we are for it today, and we suggest this kind of paraphrased agreement and we suggest that you adopt the report that we have presented to you. Of course, like fellow Cvian, let's see what they've done with the real chances they've had, and from the narrow frames, which since 2000, every ruling majority has been shrinking. So they have about the political space left for the photo for the ID card. I think that this government has reached its maximum within this framework, which it had at all, allowed to take some views in this political space. I hope that this government and the ruling majority have taken a course, in general, committed to resolving this issue, in the light of some acceptable solution. What has been achieved, definitely, has been achieved in terms of state and national interests. It is the maximum that Serbia can at all, we must be realistic, to achieve in this geopolitical position. Today in Serbia, with a positive regional aspect, with a positive European aspect, which today supports, I can say, a large majority in this House, whether we represent the ruling majority or opposition. In the end, we can ask ourselves, is this government move popular or not? We can discuss this for a few more days. It is a compliment to be a member of the ruling majority, a member of the SNS and to be represented in the executive power by someone who for the first time in a long time instead of pulsism chose some kind of state-owned approach to solving the problem. We know that we had politicians in the near and distant past who ran politics by taking weekly ratings, questioning public opinion, was more important to them personal rating, party rating, and national interest, the interests of the state were in the last place. Fortunately, that's how they went through the choices behind us. This government is definitely focused on a better future, and I think this decision, as a state, will only strengthen us, unite us, most importantly, on a very important issue and government and most of the opposition. This should be some beginning of an impoverished, isolated Serbia, which has been on the edges of Europe for 20 or more years. The role of our parliament is obvious, not only to give speeches, but to give some political power, the unity of MPs, which we will show at the vote, I say, and the majority and the opposition, to support the Serbian government for this agreement, for this paraphrasing, in fact for the agreement that follows. In particular, what is more important, much more important, in implementing the agreement with Pristina. Of course, those who had dissonant tones, we understand, is their policy, the struggle for general survival at the political mile of Serbia. No one here, most importantly, has said that this agreement is ideal. No one claims it, but I think it's good enough that Serbia doesn't stand in place. At this point, indeed, the Serbian government has reached its maximum. For Kosovo and Metohija, there are no simple solutions, but also to colleagues who spoke against the opposition, we must send a message that the "status quo" also does not produce a solution for Kosovo and Metohija, nor for the Serb people there and does not produce a solution for the rest of Serbia. There's been a lot of talk about patriotism. I think a lot of people here understand patriotism completely wrong. There's salon patriotism, and the time has passed. There is also street patriotism, we have seen how many people have come out today, of course, with full right, it is their democratic right to shout, to read the individual names of all of us MPs who are going to vote for agreements, that we are traitors, but patriotism is something completely different. In 2013, after all that we have survived as a state and as a people, we need to understand that patriotism is that people stay here, that those who graduate abroad come back or that parents, who say they are great patriots, return to the country, speak Serbian, and that here we all try to make sure that Serbia is not the poorest country in Europe, but that these people find a job. The search for work today is more patriotism than reading the names of traitors and welcoming MPs, such groups of scandalous people -- traitors, in front of Serbia's parliament. Patriotism is that, as a people, they start to appreciate us wherever we appear and that there is no longer a negative character in Hollywood movies marked as a Serb or someone who participated in some events earlier in our recent history. So, we are awaiting the implementation of this agreement and it is important that everything we do, that the message from here is that it is not subordinated to the date for the start of EU accession negotiations. Of course that's very important, but what the government has done and what parliament today is going to support for the vast majority, it's important that we do it for ourselves. Of course, SNS MPs will support this proposal for an agreement that we have before us, that is, the Report of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15381	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, like all the other SNS MPs, will vote in favour of this report, whether by calling or pressing the button, and support the agreement that the negotiators made on behalf of all of us, agreed, initialled in Brussels. I hope that the government will apply this agreement in the coming period, i.e. To implement it as soon as possible and to move to negotiations as soon as possible and to sign the other agreements that we need, so that we can prepare our state of Serbia for everything that is coming to us in the coming period. Why do I think all this is necessary? Thanks to a distinguished colleague, Dubravka Filipovski, who gave me this information, I think that each of us MPs should have read this in public here at the session, so that citizens who can't watch the broadcast all the time because of the obligations they have, at some point when they turn on the TV and watch us here, would hear it. These are data from the Committee on Agriculture, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. Serbia has 4600 villages, with 86% constantly recording population declines. Two hundred villages don't have any residents. In 702 rural settlements, less than 100 people live, suggesting that each fourth village has disappeared or is on its way to being deleted from geographical maps. More than 50,000 houses in villages are completely empty, 145 thousand are being held as temporarily uninhabited, and 300,000 single boys and single girls, who have more than, I'm talking about boys and girls, 50 years in those Serbian villages, with a very small prospect of establishing a marriage union and leaving their offspring. This is Serbia today, and this is a picture of Serbia, in addition to all the economic data we know, unemployment and everything else. Therefore, this agreement should be accepted urgently and we should stop paying attention to calls from marginal groups that do not even represent 10% of the electoral bodies in Serbia, all together in the crowd, as many as there are, who talk fairy tales and epics about something that is not actually life and is not what our citizens live today. This is what our citizens live today. Therefore, Prime Minister and Ministers, in the coming period, I expect you, as a MP, not only to go to these new and next agreements that you need to make, but to repair the reform of justice that was bad, which is waiting for us to finish, as soon as possible, to bring up a strategy to summer to fight corruption, to change our society in this way, and to introduce all those standards in all the areas that are in force in the EU Member States, because these are the best standards of organised society in the modern world. No matter how well we look at you and whatever meridians you look at, you don't live anywhere as well and nowhere is, with all the problems they have, no society is as well organised as in the EU. Continue negotiations and improve relations in the region by leading to repairing the economic environment, because it is our obligation, attracting new investments and hiring citizens of Serbia. Only getting a date to start negotiations will improve Serbia's credit rating. Only that act will make us have a better credit rating and that we have more investors. Also, Prime Minister and Ministers, don't let it happen again that when we have a session of the Committee on European Integration and the next time Mrs Grubjesic comes to the session, she will submit a report on what was done in the previous period of the commitments we have, in fulfilling the obligations we have in European integration and telling us that there is a ministry that is not 100% fulfilled, and there is. It has a ministry that has 100% fulfilled, and I will commend it and say which – the Ministry of Health, but there is a ministry that is not 100% fulfilled, I will not say which, although the minister is from the same party. Don't let that happen again. As soon as you return to the government, which I say to you as a People's MP, because we choose you here, and the people, as soon as you come back to look first at what it is to you and that the sooner we end it, because in the history of humanity there is no example, I will end up with it, that some nation or state has defended or achieved its national or state interest, and that it is not economically strong and that there is no satisfied individual. In Serbia, that's not the case. To get to that, we need to get to these standards, we need to become part of the EU, and then we will be much stronger and much better able to defend our national interests and represent the interests of the Serbian people throughout the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15383	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15384	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, makes a bitter impression on this debate today in parliament. You know that Serbian citizens with extreme attention follow every word spoken in this room, and some of you today used it well, trying to convince the public that this agreement is bad. It is our obligation today to explain to Serbia what the Brussels Agreement really says, not what someone there thinks they write or someone told him they probably write there. This agreement is the best possible solution. I cannot allow Belgrade's negotiating team's efforts in Brussels to be reduced, especially by those who have been resting in downtown Belgrade while each word of the agreement has been badly negotiated for hours and days. I will quote Alexander Vukic, a key figure in the negotiations, a guarantee of the implementation of this agreement: "I am not chosen to be the war chief of Serbs. Many are pounding into war drums on condition that it does not rain and that the drum is on the terraces, not in Drenica, and only if some other people's children go to shed blood." That's the essence of today's hypocritical and negative assessments -- let's be against, let's send other people's children to war, let's not offer any solution, and what's hard to deal with and with a number of difficult compromises is not good. It's easiest to criticize from a comfortable chair, but each of you, dear fellow politicians, who conducted any diplomatic negotiations...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15385	I ask the MPs to hear the speaker. Here, it's not your fault, it's your noise, so please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15386	Any of you fellow politicians who have conducted any diplomatic negotiations can assume the gravity of the process of reaching this agreement. It must be appreciated because it is time to become a country where other people's efforts and efforts are valued. It is time for us to be united, to support the government's new policy together, to choose our way out of the tunnel of years of political tampering and progress and a more peaceful future for our children. We can't do much apart. If necessary, the will of the Serbian citizens will be reconsidered, but with one goal and one condition, which is to come out united, i.e. make a commitment that we will all be with the referendum majority's decision. I don't want my wish as the mother of a teenager, who wants a more advanced and richer Serbia for her child, to be seen as a denial from Kosovo. The agreement is just a concern for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as this situation in Kosovo was no longer possible, and the rejection of the agreement would mean worse security for the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and no guarantee of their rights. The agreement reached the most optimal solution guaranteeing the rights of Serbs in northern Kosovo and is the essence of the agreement. The application of the agreement with Pristina on the ground will not go quickly and simply, and Serbia will...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15387	I apologize to the MP. Please, I don't know if you're aware that it's such a shame for me, even though the lady speaks loudly, to have the inconvenience of simply not being able to follow her. If you need private conversations, go out and finish your private conversations, and be careful here. We've got a little more time, not a lot of speakers, we'll be done soon, but it'll be really dignified. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15388	I'm sorry, for the time you spent on the warning, I'd like to finish the exposure. Thank you. So only now will Serbia become a country that has the same reputation and influence with countries in the region after this painful political period. When the European Commission made a recommendation to start negotiations, no one boasted about it, because we will only be able to boast when citizens are better alive and when they can see a better future for themselves and for their children. I hope that my voice will reach all decent and normal people in Serbia, regardless of political commitment. It's our job to unite and take a rapid step forward into investment, in development, in strengthening the economy. After a lot of lost time, we owe our children more orderly, advanced and better Serbia, from which they will not leave. Dear colleagues, according to the latest public opinion polls, carried out after the signing of the agreement in Brussels, as many as 60% of Serbian citizens openly support signing and thinks this is the maximum Serbia could get at the moment. I just want one more thing to tell the citizens of Serbia. The agreement is the result of the first generation of new politicians who dared to change Serbia's picture as a country of bad guys in the most difficult conditions. For the first time, Serbia came out with a formed and healthy, acceptable proposal. Serbia is now talking about the future in the region and is not talking about the past anymore. For the first time, the international community has spoken as if it owed us something. It's a historic twist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15389	The word has Biljana Ilic Stojsic. You only have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15390	If it's two minutes, I'm out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15391	Thank you. Mr. Babico, you will have the right as an authorised representative to use your time after all the speakers on the list. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous presentation, we have already referred to the fact that this proposal, or what we will vote on in the Assembly, is a report from the negotiations of the Government of Serbia and we will fully support it for the reason that the LSV has always supported European integration so far and our policy has not changed in the past 23 years, as you all know very well in terms of some of the principles on which it rests today and the current policy that these negotiations have led. What we may disagree little with the negotiators, or negotiators today, is the historical context of how the situation in which we have found ourselves today occurred, and thus a bit strange fact that today's negotiators are accused of in some way losing Kosovo, which, in practice and theory, cannot be lost in 2013, because there is a very long history of what has been happening so far. It happened that the moment Belgrade tried to bring down the province's leadership in a violent manner, despite Kosovo's democratically elected representatives, and the second based, first and foremost ethnic principles, was forced to be installed, while in Belgrade it cried out: "Atttached Vlasi, go to Kosovo". At that time, it was excavated because it was thought that power could be taken over by force in the provinces. Twenty-five years later, we came to the point that we are in negotiations again and that we are constantly negotiating with Serbia, instead of talking, as is done today in modern Europe. If things had been a little bit different then and understood that force could not impose power anywhere, today Americans would probably be able to walk freely with Iraq and Afghanistan. No matter how much power the central government has, it turns out that the moves that were drawn in the past can't do any good, and that led us to where we are today. The principles of dialogue, co-existence, peace, ultimately and autonomy, which are now being promoted in Europe, are one complete newspaper in these areas. The concern of territories based on ethnic principles is something that is the relic of the 19th century. It is very interesting that even today in some exhibitions here, fellow MPs often use epic songs, which is completely inappropriate for both the topic and the current social moment, since I really think that the eyewitness of Serbian history Filip Višnić was not a travel writer, and this is not something that we should base our political views on today, something that many today are doing. Today, I think we end up with a historic chapter that has led Serbia into a state of mass hypnosis, where we have created a constant "salt" of territory, a balvan of revolutions and methods that have led many today to remember these times where they have always benefited from their comfortable high ceiling apartments in Belgrade. The Kosovo issue has been the subject of manipulation over the past 25 years, but also 30 years. I don't think it would be a good idea to make a Waimar Republic out of Serbia today and to keep talking about how humiliated we are, how offended we are, how we are forced by great forces, without getting into the essence and dealing with ourselves, or how critically we look at the patterns that have led us to the situation that we are in today. Also, we keep hearing that this is some sort of reconciliation of the people. The nations never fight, the political elites that wage wars and organize and begin, so we have nothing to deal with the surrounding peoples, because the nations didn't even fight. It would also be extremely important to talk about Kosovo, Belgrade in Belgrade and Vojvodina in Vojvodina. To stop constantly replacing the thesis, where, as in the past, to organise mytins, the truths about Kosovo's former Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15393	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15394	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office, Prime Minister-in-Office, fellow MPs, although the debate on this important fundamental issue for the state of Serbia all day long, I believe that as many MPs as possible should be made public about the initialled agreement. For the New Serbia parliamentary group, this initial agreement means that we have essentially frozen the conflict and that Serbia will no longer suffer pressure to recognise Kosovo's independence. Also, I believe that by initialled agreement in Brussels, the state of Serbia provides permanent space for Serbian institutions that have been recognised internationally for the first time. On the other hand, Albanians have lost the opportunity to gain real independence and that is their biggest loss, and Serbs are recognised by communities throughout the territory. I am absolutely sure that our state summit paraphrasing this agreement in Brussels took care of the reaction of Serbs from northern Kosovo and Metohija. I fully understand their fear and their mistrust, given what they have survived since 1999 until today, but I deeply believe and express hope that by Tuesday they will have the strength to give a positive answer because of this agreement, because they will realize in fact that this agreement will keep the state of Serbia permanently in Kosovo and Metohija and that for the first time since 1999, we have safe control as well as the agreement reached in all areas of life when it comes to economics, justice, health and education. A number of colleagues mentioned today that the implementation of this agreement is very important. The implementation of the agreement depends on all three parties. But I also think it is very important that the state of Serbia continues to invest more strongly in Kosovo and Metohija in the infrastructure, in bridges, in schools. To continue to help our university, to scholarship 11,000 to 12,000 students who are the backbone of our people down there. It's not easy that NATO is guaranteed to implement this agreement, which terrorists have worn suits, but unfortunately, the reality that we are in today and our state-level summit has been able to spot and publicly admit it. I believe that the application of this agreement is a step towards normalising the relationship between Serbia and part of its territory, which will be crowned by the adoption of constitutional law establishing the autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija. Since many of my colleagues have said so far, I just want to say once again that we from the NS parliamentary group will support the initial agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15395	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. He's been at your disposal for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15396	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the SNS and our parliamentary group will, in full capacity, support and vote in favour of the report on the political and technical dialogue process so far with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina because they have been led and achieved in the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and within the framework of the Resolution adopted by this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what anyone in this room was seeing something different. In this room today we heard that these were status negotiations. No, they were not status negotiations, and the SNS, which is the largest political party in the government of the Republic of Serbia, will never recognise Kosovo's independence as well as the government of the Republic of Serbia in which the SNS partner will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We always told the truth, and then when we refused nothing, we were telling the truth, and then when we came before the citizens of Serbia and here before you and said that we should accept an agreement that gives us something, and that something is far more than anything that was offered at the first moment. We said it was gonna be hard and it was hard. We also said that it would be difficult to implement this agreement, and today I am also sure that it will be extremely difficult to implement this agreement because of a sentence spoken in this House, which is at the moment when Mr Aleksandar Vukic yesterday, and today, Prime Minister Dacic said that we are ready for the referendum, but that we are all together to accept the results of this referendum from one parliamentary group came a cry of "uh" which means either it will be as they say or will not be. Then why the referendum? Then what's all this for? Then why the question of the people? Then why the will of the people? What's the election for? What if we were to say "wow" at the will of the people. What I also cannot accept, which is that the SNS is described as a party that has a variable policy which is absolutely not true. Especially since it bothers me that it all comes from a party that first invited and pushed Serbian citizens from Kosovo and Metohija to the barricade, and then pushed them from those same barricades by force of the minority. I can't accept when such a thing comes from a pause that is rising in the European fluids it cultivates and cherishes, only a few months ago tabled an amendment to a resolution that needs Serbia to break that European path. That is why I will tell you once again, the SNS stands for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those living in KIM, as well as those living in the Kingdom, Kruševec, Chuck, Somboru, Novi Sad. There are no partial solutions, no individual solutions, Serbia is unique and we must take care of it as a whole. A few days ago, when the Brussels agreement was initialled after a few days by the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision and accepted, I was called by retired Serbian Army officer Colonel Radic. He used the entire arsenal of epithets on account of both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the negotiators and the one, I believe the dominant and majority part of Serbia that supports this agreement and which accepts the only peaceful solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issue. When I asked him – Mr. Radic, what would you do if you had the opportunity to lead Serbia? What would you do with Kosovo and Metohija? And I've been asking myself this question today to people who were the greatest critics of this and this agreement. He said Kosovo and Metohija's problem should be left to future generations. In that sentence, the policy of all the critics and of all those people who do not accept this and this agreement is exposed. In that sentence, a policy of escape from responsibility has been crackled, as I have not heard today the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo and Metohija have not heard what the solution is if this agreement is so devastating, as it is not devastating. What's next, gentlemen? Are we going to risk some new Storm, some new tractors, some new refugees, and then the only answer will be asking, and that's it? No more petitions. Milos Crnjanski, a great Serbian writer wrote and said – water and people always find their way, but it is only a matter of how many losses. We no longer have the right to lose. We have no right to celebrate the absence. We must promote life in Serbia. We must promote a better life in Serbia. And if this is a policy to leave the problem of Kosovo and Metohija to future generations, I ask you what future generations? What future generations will wait for us if 30,000 people disappear in Serbia in one year? Is it because there is more death in relation to those who are born or because they are leaving this Serbia? Who are we burdening with mortgages? There are two kinds of people in Serbia, those who leave their descendants mortgages, disputes, decomposed plots and courtyards, as they call them, and there are those people in Serbia who leave their children fenced courtyards, decommissioned houses, humble ones that do not leak. They leave it to their children to keep living there, those people in Serbia are called hosts. This agreement is a host agreement. Freedom and security are the two greatest values for one man, I believe in it deeply, everything else is earned and spent. Life on barricades isn't life. Life with the sounds of sirens for danger is not life. Life in latent danger from some new Storm, by some new pogrom, is not life. The fight for Serbia, the fight for Kosovo and Metohija is not being fought on the terraces, is not being fought on Nemanja Street in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and on the condition that it does not rain, because for God's sake, we cannot fight for Kosovo and Metohija if it rains. The place where the fight is being fought for Kosovo and Metohija, but also for the rest of Serbia, is Brussels, whether we like it or not. By UN resolution, the whole process has been entrusted to the EU and transferred to Brussels. Those who think differently, those who think that the fight for Kosovo is in the shoes from the Terrace windows, have to go, not to the Terrace, not to Nemnin, not to Nikola Pasic Square, to go to Prizren, so they have to keep company with little Milica, the eight-year-old child, as is my younger daughter. The child is the only pillar of the Serbian state in Prizren. There, gentlemen, in the shoes from the Terrace windows, is where Kosovo is kept. Finally, many good, quality trains have passed through a station called Serbia all these years. In some as a state, as a society, we didn't get in because we didn't know they were trains, because we didn't know where they were taking us. Some of us may not have been able to get in any slower because we were afraid of ratings, choices, what the citizens would say. Now it's time for a little train, slow. In Serbia, he's called Cira. It's wooden benches, it's slow going, but if we don't get on that train, the next train won't be there or we'll wait for some uniform. You know what a uniform is, you've seen in movies, in "Owned." We will not allow Serbia to be "Signed". We can't stop at the drill and we won't get anywhere. This agreement is a map for a faster train, this is a map for the future, this is a map for the EU, this is a map for Serbia's future and will therefore support and vote for this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15397	Mr. Samardzic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15398	In accordance with Article 104. Please, you'll be clear after my first sentence of why I answered, that DSS... (President: Please, gentlemen, I apologize, Mr. Samardzic.) Let's hear the man no matter how much he likes it or not. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. If the DSS had not participated in this discussion today, Mr Babic would have nothing to say. He dedicated his entire speech to the DSS. I'll answer a few questions he asked. One question is, so what are you offering, you didn't say anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15399	Mr. Samardzic, I apologize, please, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15400	Do you want to speak louder?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15401	Don't abuse my Rules of Procedure and lead the line. The fact that you didn't like Mr. Babic's style and speech, that's another problem. I don't think it's right, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15402	No, I was looking for a replica by Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15403	I won't let you, if you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, please, if not, I won't allow the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15404	I have a right to a replica because he misread what the DSS was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15405	That's what you made the conclusion, anyone can draw a conclusion, never mentioned you personally, or the party, or anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15406	He didn't mention me, and I don't say anything, but he said everything we said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15407	The word has authorised representative Borislav Stefanovic, two minutes are at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15408	I think it'll be enough for two minutes, not to answer the lies and the accusations they've carried out shyly in one of the previous exhibitions, but of course to repeat our position that we'll support the agreement. At this point, we have explained the reasons that are, but also to say that these noises that are now heard on a few occasions come first, from the misunderstanding of those who have easily understood the promises and those who have not fulfilled those promises. They understand each other very poorly, and all that frustration comes out of them. That's just one little psychological sketch of what we've heard, and there's one addition. In fact, I am very pleased and I can say nothing more than great pleasure, which is what we have heard in the final word of the majority's representatives, absolute confirmation of DS policy and everything we have done so far. Thank you for that, and good for you. What's a fact, if someone had managed to bring me back to a time machine that has another party on the right, I know it reliably, over time back, I really couldn't believe I was listening to these attitudes, and that is the ultimate victory of the democratic prosperity of European Serbia. Dear gentlemen, what we've seen today, this highlighted emotion at the border of pathetics is precisely the essence of internal struggle that bites the conscience of converts into politics. That's what we have to understand as people and as MPs, as citizens of this country and then, of course, spends and sometimes a little relapse in the 1990s, passes some petty untruth, passes the story of the logs from the same people who pushed people on those logs, and now they're saying that it's not, people, come out, don't roll, it's not allowed to go to barricades, and that's what they tell us who we've already found in the barricades. The repeated lie turns into the truth. That's what's sad. We can explain it a hundred times. If you think he can move to the UN, go ahead. It's just not worth explaining to anyone. Besides, if you had fulfilled 10% of what you promised you wouldn't have had this problem with yourself and those you promised to explain to yourself tonight what you didn't do. You know it best yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15409	Since none of the heads of parliament are answering anymore, does the Prime Minister want a word? Yeah. Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15410	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like you to listen to me. I listened to you very carefully, and I didn't say a word whenever any of you spoke, so please, it's a serious matter, to allow me to address you in a way that suits this home, whether anyone agrees or not with what I'm about to say. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposer of this report, I would like to say that this is a comprehensive report on the impact of the negotiating team since the negotiations were transferred to EU intervention. It therefore contains not only the results of the work of this negotiating team but also of the previous, or earlier ones. I hope it doesn't bother anyone because every serious state, whether someone likes it or not, can't start its political life from scratch or from the beginning, and it cancels any agreements that the previous government has reached. If you have any more important things, I can wait. I've been sitting here all day, and during that time, I could count the MPs from your MPs' clubs who were here. So show respect while I say this, even after that, vote however you want because it's the management of those who say today that this isn't just a matter of this report, of this agreement or of anything long written in this paper. This is the question of the course that this country is going to, accessing the reality in which we are. So, if you've noticed, I haven't even elaborated the parts of this agreement, because I guess we've talked a lot about it. If you insist on it, I'll say it. We did not negotiate with NATO in terms of written guarantees of our relations, but with Catherine Ashton we participated in the exchange of letters between Hashim Thaci and NATO, where Kosovo took the obligation, and by letter Rasputsen informed them that their military forces could not come to the territory of northern Kosovo without the consent of KFOR, except, and that is possible only in the case of natural disasters, emergency situations and this with the consultation of local Serb leaders. That's why there are exchanged letters, and that's the first time anyone has guaranteed that the Kosovo army will not come to northern Kosovo. You ask what happens if it happens. If that happens, Serbia has the right to an adequate answer. If anyone asks what the composition of the police, the judiciary and what will essentially change in the lives of Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija, the police will be composed exclusively of Serbs, the judiciary also, depending on the ethnic composition of the population. Now you will return me to the quality of this agreement, whether it is better than Ahtisaari or not. Forget Ahtisaari, forget Rambui, forget 2005. By the way, Thaci was involved in the negotiations at the time, and he was also on the chase. I think it was Cheku then. I think Cheku was the prime minister. He was on an APB. You've been negotiating with him, not me. How can now suddenly not negotiate with whoever is on the chase and how has the SPC suddenly concluded this, while many priests in Kosovo are talking and negotiating with representatives of the Kosovo authorities? Why? To survive, to survive. Why does someone have more right to survive and the rest of Serbia does not? I'm talking about kids. The findings you made that we are now preparing to send Serbian children from Kosovo to the "yellow house" of Thaci, etc., threats I received today while this session was here that my life would be short after this, is that Serbia for which you fight? Is that Serbia's pride? No, ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame and an evil of Serbia, and it must not be the leading policy in this country, and that is why this is a change in the course that this country is taking, and that is what we are talking about here today, not just whether we are going to accept an agreement or not. What will be the situation on the ground after this agreement will depend on us. I want to remind you that there are more Serbs in the south today than in the north, although 14 years have passed since the Kosovo laws were there. (The envoy of the Democratic Party of Serbia throws out the post. Everything's fine. I don't know what that has to do with what I said. I said I like Serbians to be big everywhere because we're going to kill ourselves. That's what I'd like to announce to you personally that we have to declare next year's family because we're going to run out of population. I told you there's more Serbs in the south than there are in the north. Please be patient, because I've been listening here since 11:00. Of course, I'm not pushing anyone. Whoever doesn't want to leave the gym, but respect the institution I represent here, as I respect you. Why will the Serbs leave northern Kosovo? Because there will be Kosovo laws. Well, wait, why didn't they leave him in the south? Why didn't they leave Gracanica, from Strpce? There are 14 years of Kosovo law there. For centuries there have been Turkish laws, so we have not left Kosovo. They were Kosovo laws during the communist Yugoslavia. I don't know if you followed the platform of President Nikolic, who wanted all of this to be laid down by constitutional law in Serbia's constitutional and legal system, where constitutional law would transfer some powers to the province of Kosovo and to the community of Serb municipalities. What independent state are you talking about? A territory without a people is a big problem, so we have to protect the people. Just like a church without a believer is empty. This isn't a community that only concerns the north. This is the first time we have a Serb community that will have nine or ten municipalities, except for four municipalities in the north. Also, you were just talking about Ahtisaari, that it was a better plan. I have to tell you again. To every mention of Ahtisaari, they say: ye have not accepted it. Every mention of Rambui, when they talk about Ahtisaari, they say, "Well, you did not accept Rambui." The next stage is if we don't want this, it will be, so you didn't accept. We can no longer have a policy of just rejections, but we must participate in the process, otherwise we will be left without territory and without people and then we will no longer need to discuss in this parliament about Kosovo, as we are not discussing the Republika Srpska Krajina today. Besides, I didn't want to, and I wouldn't, and I'm really warning everyone. It is not a concept of the Serbian government that we want to justify our move by accepting this agreement, that we should now attack Serbs with KIM. That's crazy. We must not make divisions in our people. We must be as unique as we must take care of Republika Srpska, where I think that today the survival of Republika Srpska is much more important national and state interest than Kosovo's survival within our territory, because there lives a million and 200, 300 thousand Serbs. When it comes to some of the objections you've made to some of my views, I can tell you openly, you know what I've stood for and what I've represented in recent years. Every idea I have, every one of my proposals, most of you have responded -- that's no proposal, we won't talk about it, we won't talk about the distinction, we won't talk about anything, we just want Kosovo to be within Serbia. Here, now the Serbian Orthodox Church says that it may be a better solution than this, and when I suggested it, no one would stand behind it. With solutions that are unrealistic, we can only win if we have an ally to force the other side to accept it. Someone here said we were the only country to give up territory. You know what, I'm embarrassed to say it, 'cause it turns out that I'm paving up with my former president. Not that one of you thinks we won the war with NATO? We're not the only country they took the territory from. Why are we even negotiating? Because we don't have an army and the police at KIM. Wait, then, in 1999, when the Kumanian Agreement, Resolution 1244, was signed, we withdrew the basic attributes of statehood with KIM. What are we going to fight to achieve our full sovereignty and is it realistic and can we succeed? We didn't give up the work of our territory. They took us. We do not want and will never accept independent Kosovo, but in order to be able to decide anything at all, we cannot have only apriors rejecting answers to every proposal. We were talking about the storm. I have to tell you quite frankly. In the talks we had in Brussels, Thaci spoke several times about that if we did not, he would establish sovereignty in his own way. Also, there was security intelligence on that. We can ignore it. You know what, I was also at the time of Milosevic's government, our government, wasn't exactly from Serbia much convincing the government in Republika Srpska to accept plan Z4. Even ours were so uninterested that they called it three fours. It was said, "Don't accept it, we'll get more, we'll get better." We got a "storm" with NATO support, and then the state leadership of Serbia said -- well, we can't go to war now. I won't let that happen to the Serbs with KIM and this government won't let that happen. That's why we have to run one responsible policy, or we'll face the heavy fate of our people at KIM. You've mentioned a lot of things I wouldn't mention. I apologized to you, Mr Samardzic and DSS, when some of my party, such as Branko Ruzic, specifically warned him, mentioned your party about some unverified information, etc. I think your manners are to attack someone because of the different stories that exist do not suit parliament. Let the institutions of the system do it and let the guilty respond. We're going to turn each other into digging up information about each other, and I don't think that's your goal either. Let's exchange political arguments, we don't force anyone here to do anything. We're running politics, we've taken responsibility. We are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have made a move, we answer for it. We're not like some other people to hide, that we can or can't. We made a move, you think that's easy? If it's easy not to be pulled by other parties before then? I was in the coalition with DS, what do you think they didn't think about it? They shouldn't have made that move even though it was more their policy than mine. They shouldn't have, and that's why today when this move is taken, we shouldn't use it for interparty bickering, because it's about issues that are important to our country's fate and future. I accept with all parties a dialogue on what kind of Serbia we want, but now if we were to talk about how we would see what we can do to get the time machine back 10 or 20 years, you know what? If you had brought her back if you had fallen asleep on October 5th and now you've woken up, you'd probably be scared to see who's in power now. You would be even more afraid to see that your presidential candidate is now against joining the EU, Mr. Kostunica. I mean, we don't get anything from getting the movie back. Of course, I'm not avoiding responsibility for everything that's happened in the past, but I think it's a really crucial question -- can we change the fundamental position of our country, our country's approach to problems to be stronger, so that we can solve problems more successfully? I think we can. We had a meeting with the Serbs from the north. We'll continue that meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Wolfie and I. We will not stop financing Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, their activities. This is not a comprehensive agreement. This is only one segment of the agreement concerning the Serb municipalities community. We need to talk about private and public property. The status of the Serbian Orthodox Church, energy, telecommunications, return, law-making, etc. should be discussed. Of course, it is important that we vote, not because someone will have a majority or not have a majority for this, but for what we are, what way do we want Serbia to have in the future and whether Serbia will be a leader in the Balkans in ten years or be a appendix that will be cut off? Only strong Serbia can preserve Kosovo and the Serb people. Weak Serbia cannot preserve even central Serbia. Frustrated Serbia, which suffers defeat after defeat, young people who have no perspective, a nationalally impaired system of values and not only national, but ethically, are all the problems we face today, not just today, of course. The office for Kosovo and Metohija will not be abolished, I don't know where you got that idea. The fact that Mr. Vulin resigned, we just need to talk about it. I want to thank him, too. He played a big role, had a very correct approach. He personally disagrees with what's been accepted, but this is not a personal question for any of us. Neither Mr. Wolfiec nor I have the right to personal access here, because what could we expect from this, some popularity? What, I'm popular that I shook Thaci ten times, and you've all been running away from the plague all these years from him? Now that's popular for me. I got something by it. I took that responsibility because I was elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia here. It's my responsibility to do that. If I'm not going to do it for Serbia, why would I do it for myself? I don't have any interest. So, what you were saying that we did it for some of our narrow and personal interest, what kind of interest? Or, this story of how chairs were, were they wooden? It's pointless to talk about. How was the negotiations? Just like every time before, you know that. I'm glad you all took part in the negotiations sometimes. I see a lot of people here. Mr Samardzic was Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. Sanda was the head of the Coordination Team. Borko was a negotiator. Zoran Angelkovic was president of the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija. I really think all the parties have looked at what... And I apologize to Goran Bogdanovic. He has an international role, since he was a minister in the Kosovo government as well. So, I don't know, Gorane, as I now recognise Kosovo, you were in the Government of Rexhepi, from 2002 to 2004? It was the Return Coalition, so we justified it, etc. It seems to me that you were a minister at the time of March 17th. You took the resignation? I'm sorry. I haven't been able to get that detail, but it doesn't matter. All in all, and since Mr Tulimirovic is also against the coalition "None of the answers offered", I would ask him to engage more on Vlah's position in Serbia, as it is also an issue that is important for European integration. Romania conditiones us European integration by doing so, and you are elected, Mr Tulimirovic, as Vlah, although I do not know if you have a Vlach origin. It is important that you are against the agreement for the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija, and I do not know what you have done for the interests of Vlah, whose MP you are in parliament. Or return the mandate, because you've been elected by signing up as a minority list and minority party, the Vlaha party. What do you have to do with the Vlassi? But well, there are other coalitions, as you say. I just want to tell you that the stories of no matter how many MPs vote for this report, that it's that they're all traitors, it's a little bit of a mix-up. Why? If the vast majority is for that, it does not mean that they are right, but it cannot turn out that several dozen of you are worth more than 200 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So please choose your words when you talk about others. I don't allow anyone to call us traitors because we don't betray our country, we defend the country and its future. So I urge you all to vote for this report and the 1,000-mile journey must begin with the first step. We don't have time to wait any longer, for inter-party debates. We have to move fast forward, or we'll lose everything. When it comes to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, we do not vote against them, nor do we intend to. We want to fight with them for their safety, their safety, how to bridge this period that is difficult for us, without allies in the West. I wish we didn't depend on the West at all, but unfortunately we depend. We can't do without some ally in the West to realize our national and state interests. After all, you yourself said we couldn't stand the bombing or anything directed against Serbia and the Serb people. That's why I thank you. I'm sure you'll accept this report for the great majority, but I'm warning you one more time, this isn't just a vote on the report. I think it is very important that we all understand behind this that we are generally changing the position, positioning and picture of Serbia and the role of Serbia in the region and the world. I am absolutely in agreement with all those who have said that a vision of the future is needed. This Serbian government is prepared to build this vision together with everyone who shares such an opinion in the interests of strong and stable Serbia and our people, whether living in central Serbia or Kosovo and Metohija, or anywhere outside Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-26-0.u15411	We're closing the search. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 26 April 2013, starting at 22.05 p.m. as the day for voting at the single agenda of the Second Business Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Before the vote on the Government Report, we will be told about the proposal made by Dr Slobodan Samardzic, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on this proposal should be made known by the appeal of the MPs. I'm putting Dr Samardzic's proposal to vote. I ask the members of the government to draw cards from the MPs' units. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – six abstentions – one, 177 of the 202 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda – the report on the current policy and technical dialogue process with the temporary institutions of self-government in the framework of the European Union, including the decision on the report on the political and technical dialogue with the Interim Institutions of Self-Government in Pristina, with the intervention of the European Union, including the process of implementing the agreed arrangements reached. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, v – 24, abstentions – one, five of the 203 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Report on the current process of political and technical dialogue with the Interim Institutions of Self-Government in Pristina, with the intervention of the European Union, including the process of implementing the agreements reached. We're finishing today's work. Thank you.
