ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23027	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. On the basis of the application of the electronic voting system, it has been established that 125 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs attend and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Rule 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have appointed an extension of this session exclusively for Monday, 2 September 2013, past the date of the specified Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to select members of the Government as soon as possible. You can now apply for Business River has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23028	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, is not here, the honourable ministers, or candidates for ministers, are reporting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, 87, which speaks of the time when the National Assembly works, but regarding Article 107. These three injuries were related. Namely, at the conclusion of the debate, on Friday.. (President: We can't talk about this today. Today we can talk about what happens at today's session. As you know, the injury is sought the moment she was made and cannot be asked for that session she did not have. If you keep talking about it, I won't let you do it. Can I explain? I'm explaining to you, Article 87. Thus, article 87 says that the National Assembly works from 10 to 18 hours. It's now 15 minutes to 12 hours, and you scheduled it for 11. So, you're 45 minutes late, and on Friday, you closed the session at 6:00 p.m. when I wanted to replicate the disgusting untruths brought by the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Arsic, saying that we, as executive authority... And now you will take away my word. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23029	Don't bring up the parts of what he said, since it's not the content of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's a replica. I personally understand. I apologize to the National Assembly for being late. I've been waiting for the Prime Minister to arrive to meet with the French Minister for European Affairs. We thought he'd be able to make it sooner because I didn't want to have a session delayed. When I was informed that it would not be possible in the way we planned, he directed, soon you will be given the authority for the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, who will replace him until he arrives, and it will be in the next 30 minutes, but I did not want to waste that time. I'm sorry for this delay. I do apologize for him. The word is Mrs Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23030	Thank you, Mr. President. Articles 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure. Of course, we have an understanding of the delay indeed, but we can understand if you have any urgent business. Is it not more natural for you to inform the People's Messengers that the beginning of the session will be late? So you'd have to do it. How you represent this Parliament, how you take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, if you do not. You see, on Saturday, you interrupted the session three minutes before 6:00. You made it impossible for Jovanovic to replicate... (President: Don't, I won't let you talk about it.) Stick to what's today. So either it was or it wasn't, I'm not gonna let you talk about it, because that's why you're hiding the Rules of Procedure. That's exactly what I'm talking (President): No, that's exactly what I said. We were forced to replicate today when we couldn't do it on Saturday. So we're forced to say there's a problem. (President: But you cannot do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and do not violate the Rules of Procedure, persistently. Mr. President, you've shown a very great influence of the executive authority on the judiciary on Saturday when the minister of justice... )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23031	I'm not letting you break the Rules of Procedure anymore. Mr. Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23032	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I'm advocating the violation of Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you right now, it's not good that you're trying to silence the opposition like this. We're ready to work on the agenda, not the Rules of Procedure. (President: Please don't. What you're saying is now a replica to me. No, it's not. (President: So what is it? ) O order at the meeting of the National Assembly is taken care of by the president of the National Assembly. You don't take care of order, you don't introduce order. I'm telling you, it's up to you to decide whether we're going to work on the agenda or the Rules of Procedure. But please do not silence the opposition. I understand the delay, you may have reconstructed yourself in this hour, you may have chosen a new minister, but let's not go into this debate. Let's start working on the agenda. But don't limit the opposition to replicating you on petty matches, it's not worthy of this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23033	Mr Milivojevic, first of all, that dictionary is not fitting to a single MP and the dignity of the National Assembly. The second thing, please don't, that I don't allow the abuse of the Rules of Procedure to be committed and that it turns into a replica, I really don't think it's the silence of anyone. After all, we have a third day of debate, and when it was in previous periods. The third day of the debate on the government's choice, i.e. the reconstruction of the government. I think that's how the opposition got all the time possible and everyone else in power to say what they're saying. Mrs Popovic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23034	Thank you, Mr. President. Articles 27 and 106. So no one can interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23035	You have already called on the same members of the Rules of Procedure and I do not allow you to use any further time. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the promoter, Mr Ivica Dacic, the Prime Minister, to be attended by all other members of the government, the Secretary-General of the Government, candidates for new members of the government, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia. I'm continuing the search on the 1st item of the agenda, the election and the order of the members of the government's oaths. You have received a proposal from the candidate for members of the Government, which is in agreement with Article 133, paragraph 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 25(2). The Government Act was passed by Prime Minister Mr. Ivica Dacic, in this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and MPs of the National Assembly, we have obtained the conditions to open a search for candidates for members of the Government, elect members of the Government and to take an oath before the National Assembly. Since the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, have so far taken advantage of their right, we are moving to debate in order of the MPs. The first reported is MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23036	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, honourable ministers, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are choosing a new government these days. In front of us, you are all with whom we, the MPs, should work in the coming period. We Members of the SDA of Sandzak want to believe that you will have the strength and hearing to solve the problems that plague our citizens, which we represent here. As representatives of the Bosniaks in this House, we have asked several questions, to which we have not received answers. Our questions concern seriously violated personal property security in the Bosniaks in Sandzak, and even their legitimate representatives. In Novi Pazar and the whole of Sandzak, a number of brutal murders, armed robberies and many other forms of serious crime have remained unexposed for years. I will list only a few of the most recent examples -- the murder of the owner of Hanur Alic's exchange shop, in front of a hotel in the city center, the murder of Avdija Sutkovic, also in the city centre, the murder of the owner of the Enes Ajdinovic exchange shop, in front of the family house, the eyes of the entire family, the death of Besim Tatarevic in the rooms of the SUP in Novi Pazar. Not even a case of armed incursion in the official premises of the SDA Sandzak has been illuminated, and an attempt to assassinate the president of our party and Minister of Ugljanin since 17 January 2009. This situation led to civil protests on June 7th of this year, requiring the immediate shift of the leadership of the New Market Police. These demands were made in a democratic and civilized manner ignored both by the authorities and by the media. The crimes against Bosniaks remain unsolved for years, endangering the right to truth and justice to victims' families, and the security of the Sandzak citizens is left to them. We are witnessing that in other parts of Serbia, police will find the perpetrators of the crime in just a few hours and bring them to justice. We've been warning back in years that this kind of behavior of the police and the prosecution is the main generator of evil in Sandzak. On the other hand, the police, the prosecution and the judiciary have co-ordinated actions that bring Bosniaks to the court and tell the courts, only because they do not carry their ID card. Brutal action arrests innocent young men. They are questioned by the beatings, they establish innocence, they let them out of freedom, and they did nothing to anyone. This kind of thing is called selective law enforcement. I have said all of this with the aim of meeting you gentlemen ministers, as well as all citizens of Serbia with conditions and circumstances in which the Bosniaks live in Sandzak. We're all sitting here today, the highest representatives of the legislative and executive authorities, and this particular data I'm giving you is facts from the field. We make good European laws here, but we have completely different rules on the ground. This is what scares investors, and these people are looking for property and legal security in Sandzak. Unemployment in Serbia is 24%, in Novi Pazar 52%, and in Tutin over 70%. We are MPs here to point to the problems and needs and suffering of the citizens. It's our responsibility. We expect the government to solve these problems. Our participation in parliament and government is the last trace of hope for Bosniaks that they can solve their problems in Serbia within the framework of the system's institutions. That is why I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to plan budgets to create new jobs in Sandzak and thus encourage other investors to invest in Sandzak. We will support this reconstruction of the government and wish you much happiness and success in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23037	Mr. Wolfie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23038	Dear Mr. Imamovic, in the course of the day, I will receive accurate information about the work of the prosecution, police and everything else, and I will address you once more, with accurate and accurate data. I don't want to believe that everything you've said is true, and if there are works of truth that you're talking about, we'll take certain steps. I've talked to Mr. Ugljanin twice, not on all the cases you've mentioned, but on some of the cases we've talked about, and if we find that there are differences in treatment and behaviour, either in the prosecution, in the judiciary, anywhere, according to some people because they belong to another nation or another religion, we won't tolerate that in Serbia for one second. I don't think that's the case, but I'm allowing it to be possible that there may be individual cases that show that I'm wrong. We're ready to talk about it and find the best possible solutions. For us, it's not a taboo topic, our goal isn't, and not because, as a government or state, we'd be scared of anyone going out on the streets or I don't know what, no, I talked about it this morning with farmers, so I'm going to be completely open with you. Anyone who thinks they can work something out on the street can handle it. I don't think there's anything going on on the street. There are the institutions of this country, and I am grateful to you for saying this, but there must be trust between us. I want every Bosniak, every Serb in Pazar or Sjenica, Tutin, wherever you want, Prepolje, Priboj, any place, so Belgrade, to experience this government equally and to know that in the government, all people are the same. We'll behave like that. As for the development of businesses in the Raška area, or Sandzak, however you want, it is, however, I think it is our most important task, and for that too, those people who live there to help you further develop the private sector with their ideas, business plans, we will help. If it comes with good business plans, we are not only helping foreigners who invest in our country, but good home plans and programmes. Please people who have such ideas there, who can make good business plans, let them come, let them report to the government of Serbia, and to our Ministry of Business and to Siep, and to many other places, so let's see and we'll help them because I think the biggest problem for each of us is when you have an unemployment rate of over 50%, because when nobody does anything, of course, and when they can't live, when they can't feed, then you'll have an increased overall rate of crime and everything else. So, I'm asking you to understand, raising pensions in any way, on a national, religious or any other basis doesn't do anyone any good, and we're willing to hear any kind of criticism and solve things on that matter. I think that some of the results on this issue will already be seen in the next period, and I hope that everything you've been saying is at least a little bit excessive, and if it isn't, so much more work will be done by us as an outcast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23039	Replica, Mr. Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23040	Dear Mr. Wolf, I'm glad you responded positively to certain parts of my discussion. The data I've provided is only part of the data that's on the ground. Of course, I own a lot of other cases that I didn't want to bring here and that I didn't bring out, which are also similar to these, and they date much deeper into the past. I'll be very in the mood to talk to you about it and share that information. Here I was talking about the essence, I was avoiding the form, and I was just about to warn the facts that await us on the ground is our citizens asking us to change. After all, we all took the same oath here. A good part of that oath concerns the defence of human and minority rights and I have double responsibility for this oath as a representative of the Bosniak national minority in this parliament. I will in the best possible way, in a constructive way help the government that I support to find solutions for these things that bring citizens, who sent me here to protect their interests and solve their problems, and I ask you to help me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23041	MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23042	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I sincerely hope that the proposed reconstructions will ensure the government's more successful work in the next period in which the top priorities are to address very difficult financial economic opportunities with us, to accelerate European integration and to implement the Brussels Agreement with Kosovo. As the only representative of Albanians in the Assembly, it is particularly important for me to accept European values in particular. In this direction, it is also necessary to finally stop a discriminatory policy towards Albanians in Serbia. It is high time that at least now, after the government's reconstruction, more seriously examined whether the functioning of the co-ordination body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, which in the course of 13 years failed to achieve even the basic objectives set by the 2001 government programme. The current way of functioning of the co-ordination body proves, in fact, that discriminatory attitude of the current government in Serbia towards Albanians in this area. In fact, during the 13 years of the work of this body, where Albanians account for 65% of the population of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, no possibility has been considered for any of the Albanian personnel to be president of the co-ordination body or at least the head of the service of this body. Even more drastically, in this ministry with over 20 workers, he has long not been employed by a single Albanian or represented symbolically. This approach by the governments so far has not been possible to achieve the planned economic revitalisation of the area, as well as the integration of Albanians into state bodies and institutions. That is why the rate of unemployment of Albanians in the Presevo Valley has increased to a record 80%, in fact, all governments so far have failed to resolve the damage done in the Presevo Valley during the 1990s, so that the current level of human and minority rights of Albanians is much lower than in the 1970s and in the first half of the 1980s. At that time in municipal courts and public prosecutors, in Presevo and Bujanovac, Albanians were relatively well involved, and now courts have been demoted to judicial units and Albanians can no longer be admitted as trainees, despite the fact that in the Vranj basic court, for more than 50, only three judges of Albanian nationality, representing about five times the lower human representation of Albanians in relation to their participation in the total number of residents of this court area. What can I tell you about the Supreme Court in Vranje or the Appealal Court in Nis, where there is not a single Albanian judge, nor does there be an Albanian translator? There has also been drastic degradation in the area of education in Albanian. After more than two decades, the sensitive problem of lack of textbooks in Albanian has not yet been resolved. The ministry has still failed to provide funds for the Bucharest for Albanian champions. In fact, this problem has just begun to be resolved, with the help of the National Council of the Albanian National Minority, and this legitimate body of Albanians in Serbia has been blocked by both the Ministry of Education and the Government's Office for Human and Minority Rights and by the coordination body. In addition to preventing and disabling the implementation of legal competences in the Albanian-language field of school management, the National Council of Albanians is further severely damaged and reduced by funding, as the Serbian government has decided to recognise only 5,800 Albanians in funding, how manipulatively they were shown by the Republic Statistics Office. By the way, I would remind you that such a dragon measure was not applied even during the Milosevic regime in 1991, when a boycott of the population list was also boycotted. I'm not getting into any trouble right now, which is why last time was a boycotted list. Special concern is discriminatory logic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And to end this, I expect this government to finally ensure a serious approach to solving the serious, sensitive life problems that Albanians in this area are facing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23043	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23044	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable vice presidents, ministers and candidates for ministers, before my discussion I would just like to wish that all of our students, students of primary and secondary schools today a successful and happy start. We are entering the third day of the debate on the reconstruction of the government and it is clear that the citizens of Serbia, as so far, will know in an infallible way that they are good at judging every word we say and every procedure. But what is certain, this reconstruction was not sought by citizens, not by the public, not by the opposition. In my deep opinion, the future of this reconstructed government will depend on the goals it has set for itself. Over the past year, the government's biggest results have been the signing of the Brussels Agreement, fighting corruption and crime and restoring the trust of the most important European countries in Serbia, resulting in a date for starting negotiations with the EU in January of the following year. Unless we want to close our eyes and stick our head in the sand, but look the truth into the eyes and be realistic both in front of ourselves and in front of the citizens of Serbia, then it is clear that the key to Serbia's further progress in reforms is economic, social and political, because otherwise, we have a collapse. It is not the first time in Serbia we have heard the words of essential, comprehensive fundamental reforms. The difference is, and one unquestionable fact is that no government from 2000 to today had the courage and the strength to start reforms until the end. As a result, from 24 September 2000 to today we had 18 choices, and each government on average lasted two years, except for the previous government, which was headed by Mirko Cvetkovic. Because of his failed promises, arrogance and self-will have made him trust politicians. Today, it is not even a little popular to be a politician in Serbia. Serbian citizens can endure poverty, poverty and poverty, but they cannot bear the fact that most politicians deal with themselves and their problems and that so far it has been almost an established practice. That is why I fully understand both Mr Dacic and Mr Vucic for inviting non-partisan individuals from the country and abroad, not because SNS, SPS, NS or any other party of the ruling coalition at the moment has no professional staff, but because it has fallen confidence in politicians and it takes time for this trust to be restored. It is only possible by modernising Serbia, continuing reforms and changing ourselves. So first we have to change ourselves to ask citizens to do the same. Therefore, when you invited Lazar Krstic and Svetlana Zivanovic to return to the country, you did not just send a message to our citizens from the diaspora to come to the country or that we wanted the most important places in the state of Serbia to be the most capable people, but, in my opinion, you sent a very important message, that learning is worth it, and that whoever is educated really has the power to change the world, as Nelson Mandela said. Economy and reforms are not only a question of all issues here in Serbia, but also in other EU countries where the elections are, above all, in Germany. The only political parties in this currently most powerful country in Europe are that reforms must be implemented with them, that they must invest in education, in infrastructure, in the economy in order for Germany to simply maintain its leading role. Serbia does not have the same problems as Germany, but if it wants to change, if it wants to move forward, then the issue of further implementation of reforms is one of the most important issues, i.e. the first question that we as a society are asking ourselves. It is quite clear that businessmen also expect this reconstructed government to be a completely different business environment, that they can work in it, that citizens should work and therefore there is no room for cynicism, no pessimism, no ridicule when the future finance minister says Serbia must no longer be in debt and that it must not spend more than it has. Mr. Krstic, you have our full support, we wish you by mid next year, as you said in some interviews, to achieve all your goals, to manage to restructure at 179 companies together with the future economy minister, to implement all the measures, above all to reduce the budget deficit to about 4% as you announced. I know you don't have a magic wand, to wake up the sleepy Serbian economy right away, but I'm glad you're a young and educated man in time and at first look at all the problems Serbia faces, which are unemployment, restructuring, tax pay and financial consolidation. It is clear that this government has dealt with many problems. This tells the fact that inflation is reduced, that we have reduced employment from 25.5% to 24.4%, that there will soon be changes to the Labour Law and through the necessary Law on Planning and Construction. It is true that we are dissatisfied with these results, but they are one shift for the better and show that things have started to change in Serbia. When EPS Director Aleksandar Obradovic says that by the end of the year, the EPS will not have 21 billion missing as much as expected at the beginning, it is good news for employees of the EPS of Serbian citizens and that it is hoped that all the problems we have in public enterprises can be solved. As far as investment is concerned, half a billion euros of foreign investment has been invested for the past year. Less than expected, but more than last year when $352m was invested, or in 2011, when a billion was invested, but as we know it was from the sale of "Maxia" "Delezu". It is true that Serbia then put into the 25m-euro budget taxes, not investment in production and not opening new jobs, as will be the case with the investment "Bosa" in the Caves or with "Ethicada" to invest 40m dinars in "Er Serbia" with another $60m in credit lines. I expect that you and Mubadal will also implement an investment for the construction of the chip factory, but also in early 2014, the construction of aircraft parts factories and many other investments that are planned and which will be resolved by this reconstructed government. There are many problems in Serbia in all areas. Agriculture is our development chance, but Serbian villages remain without people. More than 50,000 houses have been abandoned, farmers are on strike and I would ask the future agriculture minister to take very seriously the warnings of the SANU Village Committee. They propose a new agrarian and social policy, which includes legal and technical regulation of farmland, water treatment, property accumulation, but also the resuscitation of cooperatives. Since Serbia's cooperative is on the margins according to data I found only 2,124 cooperatives were founded in Serbia, and only 123,000 cooperatives, while in the world we have 750,000 cooperatives with more than 800 million members. I am sorry that Mr Dacic is not here, but I must remind all members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, that in his exposé on July 27th 2012, he promised to change in Serbia's population policy. I know that the economy is a condition of all conditions, and I expect the prime minister to inform us soon, because Serbia is threatening to disappear. In the end, I want to say that I am as sorry as my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, which is no longer a woman in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23045	Mr. Jovanovic, I have you registered. Have you heard from the Rules of Procedure? Replic to whom? [[Kedomir Jovanovic, from town: For replica.]] (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the city: the previous speaker. Mrs. Filipovski? You're not mentioned, nor is your client mentioned. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from the place: She said – cowardice in all previous governments. I can't give you a replica based on that, then anyone could answer that. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Then I want to follow the Rules of Procedure. Then you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23046	Mr. President, Article 27. I ask you to take account of all those situations where representatives of today's parliamentary majority, describing problems in society for which they seek among other things and in the cowardice of some previous governments, as Mrs Filipovski has now done. I wouldn't be going in now to assess the courage of the previous governments, but I was the vice-president of the government and the head of parliament's majority, who braved 13 years ago, taking moves that the parliamentary majority is now returning to. I don't mean to be in the debate about Kosovo, but let's just say, in the field of labour legislation today, you're talking about getting back...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23047	It's not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You want to replicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23048	I'm sorry, I can agree that there wasn't enough political support before, but I can't agree with the fact that my government was cowardly...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23049	It's all right, but it's a political argument. There's no offense. It's a statement by the deputy head of a parliamentary group. They have the right to their political stance. So you don't have to agree with them, but it has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I really can't let you go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23050	I'm just telling you to make sure that since we're going into a debate that can do a lot of things...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23051	It's all right, we'll take care of it, but of course I can't stop the MPs from giving their legitimate position on anything. No one has to agree with that in this room, but that's their right. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: That is why I said, now and advance the bill. ) The word is by MP Nikola Tulimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23053	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President, Ministers and Honorable Ministers, Honorable TV broadcast viewers and in the future on the site, I have noticed here a rather mild need to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to our MPs why we would vote for the election of the new Government. We had a chance to hear some pretty solid and convincing explanations why some of the previous governments were not good enough, first of all. I've been counting on this government since 27 July last year and the previous government of Mirko Cvetkovic. So we heard convincing explanations about why they weren't good, but we didn't hear why the future government would be good? Because of everything I see in this assembly, I think it would be much better if we discussed what would be good in the future and didn't want this to sound like a flossule, but I'll remind Mr. Vukic, you mentioned a quarter of the voters by some statistics or research they think, that using the name of my party, none of the answers are right. To convince them that this home is worthy and future government, that the future government is worthy of these citizens and that it will work well we need to talk about the positive things that will come. For example, we need to show some things. I don't want to diminish the generality, but there's little time to show what I think and I want to ask you because Mr. Dacic is not here, I hope he has a chance to have a different answer, but also a resolute minister. Given the composition of this government, you seem satisfied with the work of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. I want you to tell us if it's true, since most of the government has been changed, but some ministers have continued to work, and I don't want to single out anyone, that they're less good or worse than others, but I just want to do one example. If you're satisfied, please tell me what you're pleased with. I tried the report on the government's work, in the part we could read so far, to find out, and I can't say that I've found out. Also, I was wondering if you were satisfied with the work of the National Employment Service. Yesterday I heard the new director's plan. I'd be happy to find out if you agree with the new director's plan and why he's been in office so long if he hasn't done it properly. You can add whatever you think is important on this subject and on other topics, but first of all this. I think if you could explain this, to a little lessen one of the impressions that is being created, which is that this government will certainly be chosen. I know it will be chosen, it is not disputed, but there should be at least a bit of apparent certainty, because maybe someone will say something that will make some MPs of the ruling majority give up voting for the government or maybe someone will say something that will make some MPs of the opposition, such as. I, decide to change their minds and vote for the government. That may sound like science fiction now, but I'm telling you honestly this next. If things were a little different, that from the moment Mr Dacic said that the URS would no longer be in the government, what else could I do, I could support this government and vote for it, but first of all because of the ministers who stayed behind, and it is not explained why they are better than those who left, I didn't understand it, I can't support it. As for the debate, I have to stress that, because I don't often have the opportunity, on the outside, this day-to-day belief that the second, third, fourth, are worse, triggers the need to vote against everyone. I mentioned it somewhere in the initial presentations, but I noticed that usually my own goodness is shown by the fact that these others are worse. To give a positive example, candidate Professor Tomislav Jovanovic approached me before the start of the session and offered me a piece of paper that proves that we have why we should be proud and that we have something to hope for. That's how you do it. That's how it's supposed to work, not say what's wrong in the past. That is why I must add that I am sorry that the opposition's performance on average was what it was or the actions of the opposition, because I think the government's presentation was rather thin and that it would be better seen, even if none of us in the opposition had said a single word. I think that in that case it would be better to see how thin the representation is, and in this sense, as I just said, about Professor Jovanovic. (President: Time. ) In short, I will suggest that citizens take one small piece of paper, split it in half, specify what is good, what was bad and not only in this one, but in every government by deciding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23054	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23055	I fully agree with you that results and works should measure the success of each government. As for research in which 24.7% of Serbian citizens, not only in accordance with your party's name, sees none of the political options offered in response. The situation is even harder. Such a number of people do not think it is possible to find any appropriate solution in the future in Serbia and to draw up a government that could meet the challenges of the times ahead. It speaks of great apathy, of great disappointment with all political actors, and for that we are all somewhat guilty because, it is true, we have always managed to do so – make another one worse than yourself, since you have nothing to boast about. I'll try to answer a few things and say what I think is better. As for the National Employment Service, in order not to avoid an answer, I think it will, I hope, forgive me, Mr Krkobic and others if I say, in any case, more technical authority than institution, body, institute that can significantly help hire people in Serbia. This is done in other ways, through other institutions, through other bodies. The state of Serbia, each year, counts in different ways, spend between 100m and 150m euros on incentives, different types of incentives for people's employment. Of course, these incentives in the next period should primarily be led by, in part, a change in tax policy, a severe collection of all tax revenues, as Mr Simic has set out to do. Let's see what we can do next. I've got some good news on that one. Like it or not, there was today a man from the Statistical Institute and the National Employment Service. I saw them on two TVs. For the first time in five years, we have stopped the decline, or stopping unemployment growth, and we have a slightly fewer unemployed than it was in the previous period, but it's still a huge number of people, over 750,000 people. It's a good thing it didn't go to a million, it's a good thing it wasn't increased. It's a good thing this terrible trend this government has managed to stop. But we have a big and difficult task ahead of us, and we expect in the next two years, maybe it's too free-minded, but I'm sure that this trend will be very positive. If we could get the unemployment level down below 20%, that would be an extraordinary result. All these measures of fiscal reform, making a different environment through a decision to form a quick answer office, will end with permits, such as some other countries in the environment, and Macedonia, if you want Croatia in certain segments, have managed to create. Such standards, I'm sure, can be equally similar, even better, given their experience and any problems they've faced in the previous period. You'll expect that in the next two months to end up here in the National Assembly. By creating such an ambience, but also by bringing investors, because if you do not engage and if you wait for something to fall from the sky, and it will not fall from the sky, if we fight and we are more successful than Bulgarians and Romanians, I think we have a great chance of having a good share of Asian companies, both Japanese and Korean, about Chinese, not to speak, to attract to our country. Serbia is not in recession today. It is hard to live in Serbia, but Serbia is not in recession. After several years, Serbia has growth in the DDP. We have industrial growth, we have the largest export growth in many previous years. It's not all as good as it might be the way I talk because we have a lot of structural problems, from the height of public debt, above all, which is dramatic, to unresolved problems in public enterprises, in public administration. That's all the trouble. I don't think things should be viewed the way I often see it as pessimistic, but that there is a need to have a little more optimism, a little more faith in the government as well. I am absolutely sure that people will have to measure our results, and our results must be incomparably better and incomparably more positive than they were in years before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23056	The word is by MP Nikola Tulimirovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23057	Thank you for your answer. I'm glad the Prime Minister's coming, but he didn't hear the question, so I don't have to ask for an answer right now. There'll be an opportunity. What you're saying, I understand, and I realize that the problem is broader. I mentioned during the exposure that this is just an example, because it's an area that I'm interested in and because it's an area that I've done a little research on and I know enough about it. I'm glad there are positive changes and I hope you understand that difference between less bad and good than I said, i.e. Which is why I can't vote for this government. I want to tell you right now, since there's been a little bit of trouble in my attempt to inform you that I'm available for help. Although I'm not going to vote for your government, what I can do and what I want to do, if you think you need it, is to provide help in the field of employment where I have it, I also told Prime Minister Dacic, but not from the pay phone, I have a few interesting projects. I think maybe some of that'll work for you to do. Since we are all aiming at better living in Serbia, then it is not so important who will sign what, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23058	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23059	Dear Prime Minister, the first vice-president, deputy ministers, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the position or support of the SPS and the SPS parliamentary group on the proposal for an exposé, on an exposé submitted by the Prime Minister, which contains the government's new objectives, and thus differs from the exposés submitted last year and on the proposed candidates for ministers, said our distinguished colleague Diana Vukomanovic, president of the parliamentary group. Support is unanimous. I will only say from a few angles on the subject, on the proposed exposé and proposals by the Ministers, on the work so far and on the results of the work, on the exhibition and the reconstruction objectives, and on the new objectives. If in one sentence I could say the characteristic of this government today, then I would say it in the following way -- from the government with little expectations a year ago to the government with great or even too many expectations, from a cautious little belief in which it will lead Serbia to the greatest support of one government from all to now that Serbia is leading the right way. That grade was given and given by citizens, and their only assessment is valid, they are the Supreme Judge. Of course, there are other citizens who look untrustworthyly at this taught many disappointments, but I am confident that the government will reduce the results. When the government is taken over, I'll just single out some, all the wrong moves in the economy that have arrived to collect from the robbery privatisation. In previous days, there was a fact that the SPS supported it. It was never supported or involved. On the contrary, she has repeatedly requested a review of not privatisation, but of abuses and those that do not comply with the law, destroyed businesses, a huge percentage of the unemployed, credits that have come to a charge, large deficits, responsibilities, negative rates of GDP growth, growth of the euro, inflation, and not to add any further. The international plan on Serbia was viewed with mistrust without believing that Serbia would implement what it itself has agreed with the international community in both the West and the East. In Kosovo and Metohija, events took place without the participation and influence of Serbia, threatened to violently resolve the situation of Serbs, and not to list further, continues. After a year of government, Serbia is today a respected state. She's being trusted. She's prepared as a serious state to carry out what she's negotiated herself. Citizens have recognized a government that does not hide problems, but is facing them and is seeking a solution, not hiding from citizens anything, telling the truth no matter what it is that she did not lie. Both Serbian citizens and the international community recognized that. This has been recognised by all EU countries, unanimously by the decision to start negotiations for Serbia's entry into the EU, even those who do not like us very much. In difficult negotiations with the EU's participation, an agreement has taken place under which the rights of Serbs, without Serbs in KIM, cannot be decided. . The fight against crime and corruption, with the full support and commitment of the entire government and all the competent state authorities, and above all citizens, has taken a broad position and yields results and increasingly takes the character of the system. Serbia has begun to change. To fight for his position, for his state and national interests, to carry out an agreement. Showed he could win, not lose all the time. It has begun to restore faith in Serbia and this is the biggest result of this government, a return to Serbia that it can and can win. And this is the biggest challenge and the biggest task for this government, to expand that faith, faith in Serbia to all levels throughout Serbia, to make it the strongest religion of all religions. The government has been identified as changing Serbia as a permanent process, raising the scale, adding new tasks to the task already given and taking into account the moment of increasing citizens' confidence. Instead of increased satisfaction, the government increases its own responsibility, sending a message to citizens that power is a responsibility, not a privilege, that results can be achieved only by work and not by big stories. And that's why he raises the ladder, stabs the new banner that he's trying for, who's going to look for people who can run as fast as they can to get there and at the same time send a message that no one can stand. So he adds to the tasks of new tasks, with the goal of speeding Serbia up, to be more modern, fairer, more efficient, more orderly, respected. The achievement of these objectives and tasks is the essence of this reconstruction and is in this function. It went separately, changing itself to change the situation in Serbia. I have to tell you, given all the controversy that was about it, that Serbia is not used to it, but this is also the change of Serbia. I want to say that the proposed candidates have just been proposed in terms of achieving these new goals. However, the strongest messages in the exposé are related to the economic and social situation in Serbia with the right. It's hard to live in Serbia, and the government never said it was easy. Economic recovery and rebirth are the national priorities of the time we live in. All other key objectives of the government and the European future and Kosovo and education and health care, which are rightly treated not as a cost but as an investment, are of course dependent on whether we are able to ensure our country's economic survival. We didn't hear the government brag that everything was nice. On the contrary, it is difficult, that it will be difficult. We have heard, however, some facts that say that some results have also been achieved in this area. It was about inflation, course, health care, social product, etc. What did we hear? We heard the determination to deal with these problems with the goal of bringing Serbia's economy and state finances on the path of long-term stability right now to make it better tomorrow, and it is very precise in the exposé, measured, consistent with the possibilities of resources, circumstances in which Serbia is. We support both the direction and the way you set out in the exposé how to reach that goal. With all this in mind, I point out the government's very important commitment to establish an open dialogue with business associations, trade unions, professional public, scientific circles, representatives of international institutions, etc. All in order to achieve these results. What I particularly insist on and recommend is that it is particularly important to support and ask the Government for social dialogue, the government's social agreement and employers and trade unions. We will support as an SPS every agreement reached by these three social partners, an agreement that should enable economic stability, development, employment, a stable finance state, employers' higher profits, and a worker to stop being a cost, but a man who works fairly, receives a salary, is paid a contribution and everything else that belongs to him under the law. Reforms must be entered. We all know that. Both economic and social, but neither of them can succeed without a social agreement and if they are not socially just. Mr. Prime Minister, you and the Government, the first Deputy Prime Minister, the leader of the strongest party, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, the leaders of the government's parties, the candidates for ministers, have our full support for you to persist in the realisation of the new objectives set. You have a clear policy, you defend it firmly and you are determined to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23060	Let me just establish the end of the mandate of the Members of Parliament. You have received the resignations of MPs Predrag Markovic, Jozef Sandor and Branislav Jovanovic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the case under Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament has come to an end, within the meaning of Article 88(4) of the same law, and has determined the termination of the term of office of these MPs. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point 2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office, before the time to be elected, ended, for MPs Predrag Markovic, Jožef Shandor and Branislav Jovanovic, on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. Thank you. We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Emir Elfic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23061	Dear President of the Assembly, Prime Minister, ministers, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try in these humble five minutes to express my opinion on the new reconstructed government, but for the reason of the discussion that took place at the beginning of this session I must also make my comment as someone who belongs to the Bosniak National Community and who is as a representative of the people and my community in this high house. Namely, my colleague presented a number of security problems that occur frequently in Sandzak, although it is positive that the first Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said he would receive all the necessary information and reports of what is happening during the day. However, the problem is a little deeper and the problem here is essential, which Mr. Vukic himself confirmed with his sentence that police have no right to treat national communities or minorities in this way. And that's where the problem lies. We can't see the police as our own because we don't participate in that necessary parity in her work, to share responsibility for everything that's happening on the ground. We've been told for 13 years that it's a process and it takes time and I completely agree. It's unfounded for me to have someone lose their job today because there are other nationalities in order for the Bosniak to sit down there, but we have to go out with some data and say how much that percentage has changed in the last 13 years. We are in one disproportional position, where based on the number of residents or percentages, made up of Bosniaks, the police are completely opposite. When the first government was formed, I then criticised that it was unfounded that there was no Ministry of Human and Minority Rights within the government for the reason that a large share of the population of the Republic of Serbia is made up of national communities and national minorities. It is perfectly natural that at the highest level of state institutions, or government, they have their own president who would articulate all the problems that there is so much that they simply stand or build themselves up. At that time, it is justified for a reasonable reason to want more rational access, to reduce the number of ministries, which is in some way done. But now, in this new composition and new reconstruction, we also have the same justification, because I think it's more of an excuse, because needs are something that is completely different. In this reconstructed government, today, when in the proposal to expand the representatives, we have three ministers without portfolios, I think rationality as a reason is completely losing its meaning. What I want to point out is that the opposition, criticising this government's composition, noticed what it was in the prime minister's exposure to those first exposures when the first government was formed. I want to express something that is clearly different, which is that in the first exhibition, it was said that national minorities and national communities would have every right according to the highest European standards, and that in this new exposé it was not mentioned in a single sentence. Which confirms that there have been no shifts in national minorities' status over the last 13 months. What the prime minister said, I will conclude with this, in order for Serbia to progress, it is necessary that all parts of Serbia get equal chances because it is necessary to devote a special chance to reducing regional reasons to a more even regional development. In practice, it's completely different. We've heard that our unemployment rate, where national communities live, is two to three times higher. The road infrastructure is completely devastated. The communal infrastructure is in terrible condition. Health care, even security. What was that about? I don't think it's enough to have the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, to have the Office for Sustainable Development and Threatened Areas, but the state must finally go into essential and serious decentralisation, in order to transfer the levels of government. (President: thank you, Mr Elfic. Five minutes and 40 seconds. Can I just say one more sentence, just conclude? (President: You've been talking for a minute longer. Here, use 20 seconds. ) As the prime minister said, we did because we do not have the right to be satisfied, thinking that things should improve. I think I have the right, as a member of the national community, not to be satisfied and I have no reason to support this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23062	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23063	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, the current, future, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many books on political theory have been written in the world. Some of these books have been translated into ours. However, when I see how the opposition behaves and performs, I feel that we have translated the wrong books. It's as if someone told someone wrongly that by obstructing, attacking everything, and not even having a child, the opposition will get some points. Maybe it could have been in the '90s, maybe it could have been until the political consciousness of the citizens was at this level of the day. It's still a performance that doesn't bring results. On the other hand, I don't understand the dualism of the opposition from a few days ago. One MP from the opposition party said: “Lords, this reconstruction takes a long time, this is not good. It's supposed to be like Denmark. The prime minister came and introduced the new ministers for half an hour and said, "Well, now we're going to work. “ I don’t understand, will you do it one way or another? I'm afraid that we have applied the principle and that Mr. Dacic came and introduced the ministers and said – well, gentlemen, now you've seen them, let's go to work, our opposition would roll on the stairs both in the building and outside the building. If I weren't dealing with peripheral matters right now, I'd like to try to define what the essence of today's universal social crisis is and what are the elements that define this crisis? First of all, to me, it's this psychological moment, and that's that ambience that's been talked about here a lot. It's an ambience that's depressing, apathetic, extremely destructive. This ambience that we have is the result of a post-revolutional event in our country after that famous unfortunate year 2000, when today, after the unfailing expectations, the hope of lost ideals, exactly that wave of energy that existed, was transformed into a destruction of everything that was going on. It is something that is essential and that is what is most important and precisely in this reform, which Serbia is experiencing today in terms of changing this environment, are crucial. It is this insistence on exchangeability, on commitment, on work, on responsibility that needs to change Serbia. Changing itself, Serbia will do the most in itself. What am I supposed to say at this point, or what do I expect, and what do I hope, in short lines, from some new ministers? In the first place of finance. Saving to the threshold of pain, and still. Because it's hard to find in Europe a country that's poorer and at the same time more wasteful. It leaks all over the place. It's just amazing, as in the image is the administration of local self-government, and the state's crowd is that, believe me, in some environments in local self-government and in offices they don't even have air. They'll choke on how many there are. We need to get a regulation so they don't wear chairs from home. It all happened after 2000, when 18 parties came to the water and when the principle of party employment was made and when it was a condition, in fact, to get the rest on the political scene of certain parties. And every single one of those saved dinars in production, every one. And above all in domestic production, to reduce imports and increase consumption. One saved dinar, Mr. Cross, if they stop you from investing in production, come here, we will defend you. One dollar if they want to give in football or some other stuff, come here, we'll defend you. Because Serbia can't, if it doesn't, we can slowly turn off the light. Another thing, agriculture. I think it's time we really started that cooperative, that unification, to strengthen the middle agricultural producer and go into that finalization, not to depend so much on that stock market. Third, a relationship to the international community. I think it's going well and wonderful. She opened Serbia all the doors. It's Serbia. Open, wide-minded, friendly, cooperative. That's the Serbia they loved and that's the Serbia they're going to love. Sports. It is high time to privatise large systems – "Partizan", "Star". Every penny to be saved, so we can strengthen small sports, strengthen mass sports. This is spilling from the hollow to the blank, and the results, obviously it's clear to everyone that it's gone. The fight against corruption and crime saved the country. It should continue and it should become a rule of conduct. It's not a fight anymore. Local self-government. Mr. Mirovicu, every municipality must make a strategic plan. Each municipality must define its capacities, capabilities, knowledge and experience, and then, based on these strategic plans, make regional plans, and on regional grounds, have a plan for the state. It was enough for investors to be directed towards municipalities, whether there is a G17 municipal board in the municipality, or G18, or any party, rather than evenly saving the border towns or preserving the village and not destroying both Belgrade and Novi Sad. Justice. I don't think Serbia had a younger, more eloquent, more capable and just minister of justice for a long time. He's a Serb from head to toe. For the EU's wedding date, if we haven't prepared teams and we haven't already prepared projects for the application and for EU support, then we are too late. These teams have already had to elaborate on other countries' experience as it is done, in order to prepare as quickly as possible on that date. It's a living environment. It's a little stingy in there. The integrity of environmental functioning must be ensured, as this is extremely important for the EU. And so on, and so on, that we're not getting into everything right now, into an analysis of everything. Anyway, things are headed in the right direction. Serbia is going in the right direction. Dark clouds diverge, slowly the sun comes over Serbia and it's time. The army of Serbia, the wax of the Empress. It's a process that's started and no one can stop it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23064	Mr. Lapchevic, I have you on report. On what basis are you answering? (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. Did he interpret you? Based on what? You didn't speak today. He didn't comment, that's why he said he wouldn't comment. He didn't comment on you personally, he didn't mention you. (Milan Lapcevic, from the scene: quote what I said. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23065	Mr. Chairman, I simply cannot believe that any authority that assumes the positions of the executive authority has the need to re-evaluate the opposition and comment on how the opposition will talk about it and suggest what it will say about the government. Yeah, I said the other day that this story, called the Spanish series, lasts more than six months. I cannot combine this with the announcement by the authorities that they want Serbia to move forward as quickly as possible, that it is important for them to be in a hurry, and this debate in this parliament takes the third day, without any normal effect. If we really wanted to do the job as soon as possible, we probably wouldn't listen to an hour-long exposé, half-hour answers, and looking for and confusing a fight in parliament, with a desire to show that we are strong and that we will abuse the Rules of Procedure as much as possible by speaking for two minutes, and the answer will be 45 minutes. Is that equality? Chairs are made of houses so that there are too many people in local self-government. Let me ask you, sir, does this new government employ these same local self-governments or not? Hundreds of new ones were admitted to these same local self-governments. Don't be demagogues. If you want to cut the state administration, that's exactly what you're doing. Don't say one thing without doing another. Does Euro-fanatic Blazic or Radical Blazic say that?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23066	I just have to say that the executive power is not now and will not decide in the future how long the session will take, the MPs in the Assembly will decide. If it's gonna take ten days, it's gonna take ten days. If it's gonna take a day, it's gonna take a day. So that's not what the executive government is going to do, and now it doesn't decide. So, as far as that goes, I have to tell you that we're deciding. The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23067	I'm glad you said that, Mr. Stefanovic, but that's just not true. Yesterday I saw the Prime Minister who spoke about his decision, Article 27, that this session would last a few days, so that it wouldn't be voted at midnight. Just figure out who made that decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23068	You can't appeal to the breach of the Rules of Procedure for something the Prime Minister said yesterday. The word is Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23069	Mr. President, I'm reporting as per article 27. I asked you a dozen minutes ago to actively participate in Parliament's work and to react in time to avoid these situations in which, among other things, I was forced to remind you that the parliamentary majority is committed to the fundamental respect of order. Your party colleague, I don't know for what reason, I can't rationally state, speaking of us from the opposition, said that during this debate we criticized unborn children. What does that look like? What is this language, and what is the meaning of such messages? So, as you are very zealous in analysing and warning each and every one of us in situations where you think we are coming out of the Rules of Procedure, apply the Rules of Procedure and to your party colleagues. I'm not asking any more of you. That's not what I want to do, but we're doing this debate, I mean, as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, we've directed it completely in the opposite direction, and that's how I understand it, among other things, I'm going to listen to what the government's representatives say about it. Prime Minister Dacic is here. Don't let us talk about each other that way. I have four children whose unborn children I criticized here. (President: This did not apply to you. Then he has to tell who he's referring to. I've never heard anyone from the opposition say anything like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23070	But let me tell you... Mr. Blazic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23071	Just an explanation, who didn't understand and who didn't understand, it was a metaphor. When you say something like that, it refers to something that hasn't started yet, like the new ministers and the new government, and we're already getting into their troubles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23072	Thank you for the clarification, Mr. Blazic. The word is Laszlo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23073	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, candidates for ministers, President of the Assembly, as far as the personal composition of the future government is concerned, surely the reconstruction is fundamental. As far as the structure itself is concerned, it is not, and there have been a lot of words about it these days in parliament. There were fewer words about the reconstruction of the objectives, i.e. the priorities of the new government. In one part, I have to say, there's been a negative reconstruction of priorities. In fact, it was a quote in the exposé a year ago by the Prime Minister that the most important and difficult problem is the demographic issue, the halting of the biological decline and the extinction of the nation. So, in the first priority of last year's exposé, there's not a word in this new exposé. I mean, if that was anything else, then you'd deserve an explanation. I'm sure there's no reason why this issue has become resolved in the past year, since the election of the last government. On the other hand, I must say that the treatment of European integration is one disappointment for us. I have the impression that European integration has somehow arrived at another stage, as far as this reconstruction is concerned. I'm not saying they were pushed into another plan, but they arrived. In these few days of debate, it is certainly one piece of evidence and it is very interesting that the issue of delays, related to the appointment of the EU's chief negotiator, is not an issue of momentum. The issue was resolved yesterday, but it is interesting that it is not being moved here in parliament, and no other important strategic issues related to European integration are being raised. For example, this country does not have a month of director of the European Integration Office, political coordination of European integration is downgraded to a ministerial level without portfolios, etc. I could count. Mrs Miscevic has our full support regarding the start and conduct of the negotiations, but I fear that if European integration does not return to the top of political priorities, therefore, they are not in the same rank as economic recovery, then she will have an extremely difficult job. These two reasons I mentioned, two circumstances are the additional reasons why we can't support this reconstruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23074	I received information from the service that a registered speaker, Petar Petrovic, was delivered by mistake, so instead of Zlata Đeric, I give the word to Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23075	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, current and future ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the view of the United Serbia on the election of new ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is well known and said a few days ago by the president of the parliamentary group, Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma, for the sake of the public, I will repeat that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the election of new ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I will not use the term government reconstruction on purpose, I like to speak Serbian, and I will say that it is the choice of new ministers, instead of those ministers who resigned to their ministerial posts and that we have observed here. In Mr Dacic's exposé, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is precisely indicated what the government will pay attention to in the new composition in the coming period. There is nothing in the single Serbia to add, nor to take away, except to give full and strong support to what Mr. Dacic, the prime minister said in his presentation. I will not say anything new if I say this, and we all know it well and feel it, and the widest layers of citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel that Serbia is in a sharp economic and social crisis. The task of the new government is that new measures, by applying what Mr. Prime Minister said in his presentation, allow Serbia to be gradually better alive, to gradually create in Serbia better conditions for the employment of young and educated people, to take care of acquired rights of pensioners and other socially endangered categories, to create conditions for children to be born as much as possible in Serbia, to keep our ethnicity on the rise, not to be in decline and all that Serbia, to which it is known, is in favour of its programme. It is the right of the opposition and all those who are not in favour of electing new ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia to criticise. It is a democratic right and a democratic principle but as a member of the JS and MPs from the JS parliamentary group, it surprises the attitude of some respected colleagues and colleagues from this high home who talk everywhere that they should give young people a chance, that young people should be given a chance, that young and educated people who are scattered around the world should be able to return to Serbia as soon as possible and transfer their acquired knowledge and experience to Serbia, to Serbian economy, to Serbian finances, to Serbian sports, to Serbian culture. On the other hand, they object to such and similar people coming and entering into the membership of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Krstic, future Finance Minister, you have the full support of JS not only because you are a young man but because you have been recognized in a country that says to yourself that the most developed country in the world is. You were admitted there why the Republic of Serbia would not recognise you, why not recognise you and the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and accept the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as JS is concerned, you have full support. Mr. Udovic, Minister of Sports, you had the courage to leave active sports at 31st year where you are an exceptional athlete, bear more medals and accept one responsible function in the Ministry of Sports, to return and raise Serbian sport to the place Serbia deserves as a country, as the creator of many prominent top, European and world athletes. Unique Serbia gives you full support on this plan. Give those results, at least part of the results at the ministerial post you had in the sport you love, which is water polo. When we talk about other ministers who will form the future composition of the government, and have little more years than the gentlemen mentioned, only the results of their work so far have defined the prime minister that he can propose them for future ministers. In JS only work and work results must be a criterion for someone to be proposed to any function of either ministry, either directorial or other responsible function. Empty witnesses don't lead anything. I ask all respected colleagues and colleagues when they pass through the park and when they pass the monument of Serbian Nobel laureate Ivo Andric to read what is written on the stairs, and then they will remember what is needed and how they should criticise future ministers or should not criticise them, but praise them. Mr. Prime Minister, I think you made it very clear in your presentation what the future government will fight for, which is for Serbia to leave the crisis, to create new jobs, with social justice, etc. Unique Serbia, as you know, and so far it has given you full support, will give you future, and do not mind the criticisms of all those or it is normal that those who were in some responsible places by yesterday are not, would certainly want to see you back as soon as possible, but your back will not see you safe, not now, not after the next elections, because this coalition will long and successfully lead Serbia towards prosperity and prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23076	The word has been made by the People's MP Olena Papuga. You should have reported a replacement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23077	Thank you for coming. The Honored Chairman, Prime Minister Dacic, candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, LSV MPs will not support the election for the newly reconstructed government, for the 13 months of this government led by Prime Minister Dacic, all that was Vojvodina-related is in some way either destroyed or transferred to Belgrade. I am primarily referring to "Electrovodina", which no longer exists, and then I think of the Vojvodina Radio Television, whose founder was the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and motherly referred to it as, let me say, radio television, because she simply felt the need to help rebalance the budget only of Serbian radio television and granted her a 2.4 billion loan, and the Vojvodina Radio Television, which informs ten languages, received no dinar. Then, we won't support reconstruction, and for the reasons that the duke couple have been on the streets for weeks, they simply can't enter Belgrade, they finally came in to talk to the government's representatives today. Also, we will not support the reconstructed government for the reason that today when a new school year begins, members of national minorities where education in the languages of national minorities is maintained in continuity. In my Russian National Community for 260 years, the school year begins without a textbook for national minorities. I have a list of 114 textbooks that are missing not only in Russia, but also in Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Bunjeva and other national minorities, simply, last year when the mandate of this government began, before the start of the school year 2012, in 2013 I asked a parliamentary question – why do the members of the national minorities begin school year without textbooks? In a year they didn't get textbooks. Parents, members of national minorities, did not ask for free textbooks. Parents paid textbooks to pay them back in April for books that were not printed. That's also one reason LSV won't support this reconstructed government. Also, in these 13 months of this government, Vojvodina has become the most underdeveloped region. Why did that happen? I don't know, but that's also why we won't support the reconstructed government. Also, unfortunately for one of my own, I would also like to conclude that this government and Prime Minister Dacic did not see the recommendation of a trustee to protect the equality of Nevena Petrusic, that in the reconstructed government there be sufficient number of women. It is a European definition, which is also pursued by this government, as well as by the Republic of Serbia. This government will only have two wives. The last government had four, two ministers were replaced by men. In this debate, I haven't heard from, say, MPs, five women apologize, so, even less women, that they've commented on it, I've only heard from the MPs to comment on it, so I just don't know how to explain it, whether in Serbia women are the only ones who have to fight for their rights, that the male sexes don't feel it, I regret to say, and I think you're in your exposé and last time and now you've given some, as a finding, that equality is a birth, working, national policy headquarters of this government and that women will certainly be in the first place. So I just don't know how to think about this. Also, I would like to mention one thing, perhaps for some banal question, but for cities and villages and for regional development it is very important. I was also asking a parliamentary question -- how does the Republic of Serbia think it's regionally developing Serbia if it doesn't see people in the village need in the 21st century for a single bank or for some ordinary bank counter. According to Vojvodina, and I know all over Serbia, banks have been taught all over the villages. There's no bank in any village. I checked in Vojvodina, in Zablja, in Kula, in Vrbas, in the White Church, in Kikinda, only in municipal cities there are banks and one bank next to the other. So, in the Tower where I come from, six banks stand in one street. In the villages, no village of Kulska municipality has a bank. The village I come from is Russian Krstur, it has 5,000 inhabitants, it has school, high school, a freezer, people deal in agriculture, it has about 700 acres of pepper, people plant, etc., they don't have any banks. The big problem is, the bus company doesn't exist, it's privatized to Jerkovic, buses don't go anymore, people really need to go to the bank, but if they don't have, especially pensioners who have 900, especially people who are interested in agriculture don't all have the opportunity to go to the Tower to raise money every month that they earn or live on. So they may be really banal life problems, but for people living in villages it's very important. I received an answer to the parliamentary question from Minister Dinkic, who answered whether I know that all banks in Serbia are private and that the state cannot lead the policy of opening and closing banks. It is, yes, but I don't think that leading such a policy towards the village will lead to its development and that someday all of Serbia will move to Belgrade or Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23078	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23079	I'll advertise Article 107. Rules of Procedure. In fact, I believe that our distinguished colleague, perhaps in an accident, has given a false statement, which is that gender equality other than the MPs in this House for the reconstruction of the government has not been spoken of. I must remind the National Assembly that Mr. Predrag Markovic, who was the authorised representative of the RS on this agenda, spoke of it as well as the position of the RS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23080	Please bear in mind that the MP cannot harm the Rules of Procedure, so the Rules of Procedure hurt the President, or the Chairman. So whether someone here is telling the truth or not, that's another problem now. Please, you had no basis and I ask you not to advertise the Rules of Procedure without a basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23081	I'm advertising Article 27. I didn't even warn you that the Rules of Procedure broke a letter that she spoke before me, but I told you that you didn't warn her because she was telling the truth. So once again, I underline, Mr. Predrag Markovic, who was an authorised representative of the URS on this agenda point, spoke about the government's reconstruction, about how in this reconstruction, simple, forgotten gender equality and that was the intervention I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23082	I'll remind you of Article 38. The Law on the National Assembly and I will read Section 2. "For the oral or written opinion or voting in the performance of its parliamentary function, the MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility." He's free to deliver his opinion here. Please, please, don't advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure on that basis anymore. National MP Sasa Milenić, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23083	The deputy head of the URS parliamentary group has accentuated what I wanted to replicate. In fact, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, it is about the fact that every MP has the right to correct an unauthentical or untrue interpretation of his views. It is simply not true that gender equality has been forgotten among MPs. The URS parliamentary group also discussed the government's reconstruction in light of gender equality, Gods, a full five, six-minute programme position. Therefore, we would like to note that the principle of gender equality has been forgotten by the promoter, or by the mandater, but not by the MPs, regardless of which, the more represented or less represented gender, since this position was explicitly explained by Mr Predrag Markovic on behalf of the parliamentary group of the URS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23084	Thank you. The People's Parliament of Olena Papuga, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23085	Maybe I didn't really mention everything, maybe I wasn't there when someone mentioned that gender equality, so I apologize to everyone who might have stayed forgotten in that speech, but I really think more about gender equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23086	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23087	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and Ministers of Ministers, after the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Ministry Act, we have actually taken a step forward, a step further towards a final phase in an extremely important and important process for Serbia, a process that should introduce positive changes in Serbia, a positive change from which improvements and changes to the better should right now be felt by the citizens of Serbia. It's about the reconstruction of the government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the adopted proposal for a law on ministries, it has actually answered one key question at the very beginning of this process – what kind of government is needed and necessary at this time in Serbia, which is the number of ministries within the government needed and needed in Serbia, which will be carried out by certain ministries. I would say that we have received one functional and sustainable model, which should actually be applicable to all the next and future governments of the Republic of Serbia, and not every government has its own approach and its own consideration and that the Ministry Act adapts both to the current political moment and to the current coalition agreements. When it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia over the past year, I will repeat what the head of the SPS Parliament Club said very clearly. So, as a Parliament club in general, we are satisfied with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately, in Serbia there are so many problems that it can always and must far better and far more. This government has shown, I would say, both responsibility and determination and commitment and commitment and willingness and consistency and unity when it was most needed in the interests of Serbian citizens. The government has shown over the past year that changes and reforms in Serbia are an unconstitutional process. The government has shown that the government does not exist because of political parties and political parties that are part of the ruling coalition in Serbia, but that it exists primarily because of Serbian citizens. In the past year, the government has led one, I would say, a realistic policy, as the prime minister said in the opening statement, a mask-free policy, and when she spoke to Serbian citizens and did not tell fairy tales, so not what the citizens would like to hear, but it is a reality when talks are held at the level of the international community. In a realistic way, problems have been seen over the past year. There have been problems and responsible solutions have been offered, which are certainly in the interest of Serbian citizens. In the past year, the government has shown that it is capable of solving problems for the past year, and it is our legitimate right to express it as a parliamentary club. Within a year, a decades-long goal has been achieved when it comes to the start of Serbia's negotiations on Serbia's EU accession. This, of course, I will agree with Mr Petronivic, a fellow member of the parliamentary club, is the result and successful reforms in Serbia, is the result and progress in talks between Belgrade and Pristina, the implementation of what was agreed in Brussels, and this certainly is the result of a decisive, continuous, successful and non-selective fight against crime and corruption. A year later, Serbia's reputation was raised. Serbia's image has been changed in the international community, and Serbia is well spoken of in the world today. Of course we support the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – a step faster, a step further. Always a step forward towards the EU, because it is a means for the normal lives of Serbian citizens. So we need to bring Serbia closer to the standards of Europe not only because of the EU, but rather to create a modern, normal state where citizens can live normally. We want that in the next period of time, we are convinced that this is how it will be, the key goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to make the citizens live better. So, in addition to European integration, the continuation of the successful European integration pathway, we expect that the key objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia will be primarily to prevent Serbia's long-term economic downturn, raising living standards through development projects, through investments, infrastructure projects. No economics without infrastructure development. We expect higher employment, higher employment and expect new jobs. I want to say that after 20 years, this must be the only government that, despite the severe economic crisis, despite everyone feeling the negative effects of the economic crisis right now, has huge trust, but also huge expectations of the citizens of Serbia and, I would say, with full right. There are high expectations of citizens when it comes to this government of the Republic of Serbia after one year from the moment of the constitution and formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I want to say that there must be no higher objective, no higher interest in this government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Mr Petronijevic is right when he says that perhaps the problem of this government is that, at the moment it is formed and established, the citizens' expectations were relatively low. A year after the constitution and formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, following results that are both visible and recognizable in a positive sense, citizens' expectations are far higher. In the sports jargon, said, the scale is as high as possible and I think it is good and it is necessary and it is important first and foremost for Serbia's future. Mr Dacic said at the beginning of his term that this would be a government that would be turned to the future, that this would not be the government of the past. I think it's quite clear and totally visible today. He who speaks of the past is mostly afraid of the future. The past provides lessons and affirms what is positive, but we need to talk about Serbia today and try together to build the foundations of some new future in the interests of Serbia's citizens above all. I am convinced that this government will have the strength and skills and expertise to win that crucial battle, a battle for Serbia's future in the coming period. Finally, as Mr Dacic said, it is time for Serbia to win in peace. So this government of the Republic of Serbia has huge citizens' trust, there are great expectations of citizens when it comes to the work of this government of the Republic of Serbia. It also has legitimacy and it will be visible in the day of voting in the Republic's parliament, but this government of the Republic of Serbia has the courage to face some problems without paying attention to whether or not it will lose its political rating. Despite the good results, the government has accepted a reconstruction aimed primarily at a positive change in Serbia or with the goal of making the results of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia even better in the coming period. This isn't about someone getting more political power through reconstruction. Here's the word that we're fundamentally and thoroughly changing the system so that the state can function far more and far better. So this reconstruction is not imposed. The Serbian government itself has defined the goal, defined the dynamics, defined the deadlines, and there is absolutely no delay here. This reconstruction is not cosmetic. Cosmetic changes aren't good. This is a fundamental and fundamental reconstruction, and from this reconstruction, Serbia's citizens should first of all feel positive changes. It is therefore extremely important to analyse the work of every part of the state administration in the coming period. We find it irresponsible to look at one of these important and important issues in Serbia in a simplified way and only to talk about the government's reconstruction through, say, personal issues. Personal questions are important, and we've said it more than once. It is very important to find the highest quality, most prominent, most capable people who will successfully organise the system, who will successfully organise individual ministries to achieve the best possible results. It is also important to define what strategic interest it is, to define the new objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to define what kind of Serbia we want and what we want and what it is that we can all do together to realize that goal. It's logical that everyone praises their candidates for ministers. We have 11 candidates ahead of us, but we haven't done it in the past few days, and we won't do it today, because we don't think there's any need. What I want to say and what we expect from the Ministers' candidate is that you consider your work as a life-long role in the coming period, to take responsibility for Serbia's future, to do professional, competent work, but above all, in the interests of Serbian citizens. If someone does not work well, and has to be changed, and we MPs in the Republic Parliament, the general public, the expert public will monitor the work of every ministry, every minister and government in general. Everyone in Serbia should do their job. The government of the Republic of Serbia should do its job, the republican parliament should do its job and each will receive an assessment, as Mr Petronijevic said at the national court, that is, in elections when the time comes. This isn't about whether someone's afraid of a choice or not right now, this is about the next one. Whether we have state authorities that can work far more efficiently and better, who have the authority to make decisions, because in the next period ahead of Serbia are extremely important decisions and important jobs to be done and done. I think that over the past period of time, looking back a long time, I will not speak precisely whether 10 or 20 years, but I will say that unfortunately valuable time has been lost for Serbia. There must be time for political parties, but not for Serbia. That is why reforms must and should be the agreement of all relevant political parties on the political scene of Serbia. Many political parties are on Serbia's political scene, but one is Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23088	The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23089	Dear President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers and candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, allow me to express my satisfaction before I say anything about the exposé, on behalf of the ZZS parliamentary group, that the government has appointed the main negotiator and that I should express my special satisfaction that Mrs. Tanja Miscevic, who is extremely competent for this job and I am sure that she will rightly represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia in the negotiations with the EU. I also have to say that the MP group of the ZZ in the future will support all those laws that contribute to Serbia's faster and better accession to the EU, but I also want to say that we will support those laws that promote self-government and promote solidarity. These are the basic principles of the work of the ZZS parliamentary group. As far as the exposé is concerned, I have to say that the most exposés contain economic policy and that it contains measures for the recovery of the Serbian economy, which makes perfect sense to me because, in its own exposé, the prime minister found that Serbia is at this very difficult economic position at this point, that most of the economy is in a pre-gauge or bankruptcy process, and I also think that the government's reconstruction is also a product of poor condition in Serbia's economy. I can't agree with all the proposed measures in the exposé, because I don't think they will lead to any improvement in Serbia. Here is the promotional principle of zero tolerance to not paying taxes. My opinion here differs from most of the opinions expressed in this House. For zero tolerance I am for not paying taxes if it applies to those who break the law in order not to pay taxes, if it refers to those who forge bills so as not to pay taxes, if it applies to those who establish phantom firms to extract money from the Republic of Serbia through fake invoices and thus become rich. I'm here for zero tolerance. I'm not up for zero tax tolerance for those who have applied for the tax, but they are not able because of the great indifference that the prime minister also cited in his exposé, because this will lead to a lot of problems. For me, those firms who can't pay taxes to be reprogrammed and allowed to continue their business, because if that's not the case, believe me, and I know very well at this point almost all of Serbia's economy will enter, as the prime minister says in a pre-fashion or bankruptcy procedure. I look forward to the fact that the future finance minister seems to have revised his position on the matter a little bit, so from a hard attitude from zero tax tolerance, he said, yes, zero tax tolerance, but we also have to take care of jobs. I think it's a good attitude and I think it's a priority for this government. In this they will have our support, in preserving jobs and new employment. Without it, Serbia has no perspective. In his exposé, the prime minister did not specify another zero tolerance that I would suggest to introduce to him, which is a zero tolerance to the gray economy. The grey economy today is harassing Serbia, a grey economy exists in all segments, and if you go through Serbian cities now, you will see that you can buy illegal needle-to-lock goods at any major market. Porous are the borders of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Dacic, you as police minister and Mr Lazar Krstic as future finance minister have mechanisms across the border police and through customs administration to hermetically close borders for illegal goods. You'll see how much budget revenues will increase afterwards. When we talk about the gray economy, you've led the prime minister to say she's 30%. I don't think so, I think she's much bigger at this point, unfortunately, but I'll take that as an example. A month or less than a month ago, a trumpet assembly was held in Guca and tax control was announced there. It has been said that once the assembly leaves, there will be tax control throughout the entire term. We'll control the issue of fiscal accounts. Unfortunately, the result is devastating, 80% of the controlled did not issue tax bills. It is devastating for this country, and that leads me to conclude that the rate of the grey economy is significantly higher. It's obvious that repression and increased control, unfortunately, can't put this in order. I'm going to propose two measures that I think are necessary to reduce the gray economy. One measure is that people are educated, that we bring people in to be ashamed that they don't pay taxes. That's possible. This was the case from 1990 to 2013 only in a short period of time at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic. That's when many businessmen said - we're ashamed not to pay taxes. Let's make it a shame for people not to pay taxes. One more thing and I'm ending up, since there's not much time for our parliamentary group, which is that you can't by increasing the tax on property, by increasing VAT and increasing the profit tax, as you stated in the exposé, to reduce the grey economy. I think the reverse process is going to happen. It's a good thing you're cutting taxes on earnings, but I think you need to cut these other taxes, because if you compare the VAT collection results for the first quarter of this year and the first quarter of last year, you'll see that more VAT in the state register entered the first quarter of 2012, which means that the 18% increase to 20% did not bring any improvement. So think about going the other way, reducing taxes, and I think the cash register will be fuller. We'd have a lot more to say, but I have to leave some time for Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23090	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23091	Dear Vice President, I would just like to point to a violation of the Parliament's dignity and dignity of Serbian citizens. The Honorable colleague was the Secretary of State. You had to warn him. During his term of office, he was in charge of the tax administration. In that term, the tax administration was decimated. (President: Please, Mr. Radenkovic, don't. Don’t give us lectures here when there’s nothing. So it's not true. You have to point to that. You simply have to follow the debates of the MPs. Don't let lies and lies be brought out here and that someone else is to blame and that someone needs to do something and hold moral sermons. So, the IRS is decimated, destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23092	Please, I have to react here to this kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. First, every MP has the right to speak his mind here. Whether it's true or not, that's another question. It's not up to the chairman to enter into the truthfulness of someone's exposure. It's just impossible, please. Therefore, such a breach of the Rules of Procedure was not established. Please don't advertise that kind of damage to the Rules of Procedure anymore. The second is if someone is insulting about someone, that's another question, but is the data 5 grand, 10, 100 grand, was it this or that, please, how am I supposed to know as chairman? I can't know, not me, but anyone sitting here. Please don't advertise that kind of damage to the Rules of Procedure anymore, because there's no basis. (Miodrag Djidić, from the place: Replica. Mr. Giddyup, you have no basis for replication. You have no right to replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've explained enough when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23093	Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing the reconstructed government of Serbia for the third day, we are discussing new ministers. I guess we should discuss their programs, too. Unfortunately, we lost two days in certain bickerings. We lost two days in some scenes that certainly did not contribute to the reputation of the National Assembly, and I am sorry that it happened. I honestly expected that in the first place of the opposition, especially the main opposition party, it would actually use this time to ask even some unpleasant questions for future ministers, as well as ministers who remain in their position, to ask some simple citizens questions. Since that did not happen, here I will use the time of the SNS parliamentary group to ask especially the new ministers for their programme, to ask for certain things about what is in their plan, that citizens actually hear what is going to happen in the future and why we all expect together that with the reconstructed government, Serbia will really move forward with accelerated steps both towards Europe and towards a better life. It's really a good time to ask Mr. Mirovic a question. Unfortunately, he is currently out, but Mr Antic as future minister is indeed in charge. Let's just say, businessmen very often, I look over the Internet, they ask the question – when will local self-government units finally be able to introduce that the taxes paid by businessmen are equal to the taxes paid by ordinary citizens? We now have a situation to pay a 350% higher price for municipal services in some municipalities than the citizens pay. It is not only not constitutional, it is not in line with European standards, it is also contrary to interests in the development of the economy. Minister Krstic was asked practically nothing during the two days of this discussion. Perhaps now is the time to ask the question – what does the minister think of beating debts between businessmen and the state? We very often have a situation that the state owes the businessman, at the same time the businessman owes the state on different grounds. But what happens in practice? In businessmen, if they owe the state, they immediately send an inspection, they close, they write a newspaper about it, and when the state owes the businessmen, we have a situation – go to court, so when you get two, three years from now, you'll charge for it. This is one issue that interests businesses, the Association of Employers of Serbia is interested. Unfortunately, no one's asked a question yet. Now might be a good time to hear the program. This is just one question. If I had more time, I would surely ask Minister Krstic, and not only Minister Krstic, but other ministers, what do they think of electronic trade, what do they think of electronic sales? We see that a whole series of companies are announcing leaving Serbia because this part is not regulated in accordance with European standards. The future Minister of Education is the right time to ask – what does he think of the new Law on textbooks? Today, even the Anti-Corruption Agency stressed that the lack of a draft law is quite a problem, that it has a certain form of unfair competition on the Serbian market. Of course the publishers are very interested, not that we're fighting here and that, God forbid, we're insulting ourselves. Well done by the new minister of sports, excellent career success, but now is the right time, here, as the father of a student who is going to go to school today, to ask a question – what is your position on, say, school sports? Of course, the best way for children to break away from the bad influence of the street is to get rid of drugs, to get rid of alcohol, to deal with sports, but the fact is, unfortunately, a good part of Serbia's schools doesn't have a gym. Don't just say there's no money for those physical halls. Just by issuing these physical halls, they can pay themselves off. Also, we're all interested in your position to privatise football clubs. We all support that privatisation. I think that every citizen in the country wants us not to finally single out our money for the Star, for Partizan or who, but we're still interested in how to protect the Red Star brand, or brand Partizan. It is an ideal time for the foreign minister, who has really done a lot, to travel a lot, to make a lot of contributions to Serbia today having a better position in the world, but now is the right time, let's say, to ask a question about his plan and a programme for economic diplomacy. We see that more and more foreigners want to invest in today's Serbia, Serbia that is heading towards Europe in which we are fighting corruption, in which we are passing European laws. It is good that enough attention is paid to China, Germany, Russia, the EU, where large investors come from, but we must not forget some smaller countries, perhaps neglected somewhat by the foreign ministry. Let's not forget, let's say, that it's a very important investor in Serbia, let's say, Azerbaijan, that Belarus is investing more and more. What, for example, is the foreign ministry's position on bilateral chambers of commerce between these, say, smaller investors, but for Serbia very important and our companies? Is the foreign ministry going to be more involved in this matter? Mr. Tasovac, more and more foreign tourists are coming to Serbia. More and more foreign investors are coming to Serbia. When they come, we don't have a National Museum, and they're interested in seeing, they're interested, let's say, to see the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, in which, for example, we don't pay the entrance, which is very interesting. What's your plan, what's your team's program about? I'm sorry he's not the Justice Minister here. It's been done a lot. And Europe confirms it. And our citizens are getting more and more satisfied with the situation in the judiciary. Europe has also given us positive views. We heard here an official address, even in the National Assembly. Now, if he were here, it would be a good time to ask a question - when will the new law on the network of courts be? It is now time that both the Arangelovac and Gornji Milanovac and Šid and Sainta, and a whole series of other cities in Serbia, get courts that have been abolished by previous judicial reform, which was obviously not successful. This would now be the right moment and the right moment to ask the question if it was about his plan and the program on this matter. We could ask a whole series of questions, which actually interest our citizens, to ask the government, to ask our current, future ministers. I know they have the answer. I know that the answer is certainly of quality, and if anything, and in direct conversations with them, I've heard that the program and how they have it. We have a lot of confidence in our new ministers and our old ministers. Your biographies are really great. The reputation you enjoy with Serbian citizens at the highest possible level. Of course the SNS will support you whatever you do, if it is in favour of Serbia, if it is in favour of both the SNS and our coalition partners. For every help we stand at your disposal. To be attached to my colleague Blažić, whenever they do not want to provide you with the resources for smart projects, please contact the National Assembly. Believe me, I mean the new ministers here, you have support. This congregation isn't always just a shootout. Unfortunately, it was these two days, and I'm sorry about that, and I'm sorry that the citizens of Serbia, who looked at it, may have gotten a wrong picture, just as the Assembly's reputation was beginning to get bigger. Now, because of those two previous days, it probably collapsed, but today is the right time, the right opportunity to discuss your projects, to discuss your programme, to answer us and the citizens of Serbia to answer questions that Serbian citizens are interested in, to show that indeed Serbia is going towards a better future and in a good direction. Special support for non-party figures in the Serbian government. This is proof that SNS and its coalition partners have a desire to hand over to young and perhaps not so many young experts, but definitely to people with excellent biography, to hand over jurisdiction. Evidence that we are not going in any direction towards any absoluteism. We really believe that Serbia is going in the right direction and for this reason full support of the future government, full of support for ministers. In voting day, of course we will vote for this government, and I hope the ministers will be given the opportunity to answer a few questions. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23094	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Miodrag Djidic, Srdjan Milivojevic, and Bojan Đuric. Here you go, Giddyup.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23095	Mr. Chairman, you've violated article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because you did not interrupt the previous speaker, who spoke after me, for injuring the dignity of the congregation, bringing forth a series of lies. I don't know where he got what he was saying. I didn't have any co-operation with him, so I don't think he's on a flat-rate basis just to get back to you. I must remind him that during the period I was the Secretary of State, the Tax Administration, but also the Customs Administration had excellent results, that they had received recognitions from the EU Council and were (President: Mr Gidić, the results of the work of the Tax Administration are not the subject of infringement of the Rules of Procedure. I'd just like another sentence. (President: No, I won't give you any further. The injury of the Rules of Procedure is that you allowed him to speak. I'd just like to call...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23096	Mr. Giddyup, I won't give you any further, please. As far as we're going to go, if so... The word has Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23097	Article 27, Article 107. Rules of Procedure. First, the previous speaker, or Mr. Cvian, insulted the entire opposition here. He claimed that we've been fighting here for the third day, and that's why I'm asking the authorities to deliver to this Parliament to see who's been talking more in these three days. I'm sure it will prove that the representatives of the ruling coalition... (President: Mr. Djuric, why did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? ) Since you did not warn Mr. Cvian, let’s say he can’t ask the government for the impossible. So he asks the government, or the opposition to question candidates for the minister on their programme. Ministerial candidates don't have a program. The program has Mr. Dacic, it's called exposé. The Liberal Democratic Party sought before the beginning of this... (President: No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. How can you judge that? (President: I will answer you. Just wait till I'm done. First you have to wait for me to finish, explain what I think, which consists of the injury. With who? [[President: I know, but you run the line, Mr. Giddy.]] (President: Practically at the exposure of Cvianovo. Excuse me, please. ) No, it is not possible for us to discuss individual ministers' programmes, candidates for ministers. You must know that, Mr. Arsenivic. Is it possible? We tried to secure a debate or a conversation with the Ministers' candidates about their programs, which is what we talked about here on Friday, Mr. Cvian was against it. That's why I'm saying today he's asking us MPs in the National Assembly to conduct a debate and ask questions to candidates who can't speak. That's offensive. I find that offensive. So, I wasn't talking about any facts, and I didn't judge whether it was true or not. In that I agree with you that you cannot react to this, but I only ask that you respond to the situation when the MP asks us to do something that is not possible in the Rules of Procedure, and then considers us irresponsible because we do not. I don't think it's polite to question someone who can't answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23098	Time. Mr. Gjuric, I don't think it's correct to ask the chairman to influence you too to influence what the MP is going to say. His freedom to choose a topic when it comes to government. There are no questions that can't be discussed here. This is a unique opportunity when MPs can talk about any problem concerning Serbia. Therefore, I believe that you cannot do so at all and I have no right to influence any MP as to how he will express his views on a particular problem. I don't think the word "shooting" is that offensive. I can't see it's humiliating. Maybe it could have been a more appropriate term, let's just say. In that sense, I'd like to accept you as some kind of... But I can't see it's that offensive. You can plead in voting day. No, thank you. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103. I especially set aside the 7th and 8th points of view. He says that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to abuse the rights provided for in this article to a national MP who does not adhere to the provisions of Article 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this article, or in another obvious way, as provided for by this article, and the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, advertising, and to the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111. Item 8. - in the case referred to in Article 7 of this Article, the President of the National Assembly shall be obliged to use the time used by the MP using the rights of the 1st member to subtract from the total amount of time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, if there is no time left for the search. Let me explain this. I'm not that you're punishing them by attitude 7, to make warnings or sanctions. I understand that certain parliamentary groups have not won enough seats in the elections and that they do not have enough time to spend in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which they themselves have adopted and brought. I urge you to apply the measures laid down in Article 8 and to punish each of their abuses by including them in that time because you are required by the Rules of Procedure to do so, to include at the time of the parliamentary group. In this way, we will, in an effective way, prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I think this measure they've adopted in the position of 8 of Article 103 is designed for situations like this when it comes to excessive obstruction. I repeat, I allow the moderate favoration of the opposition, but I think they've taken a measure of action and that you think it's time for the sanctions of attitude eight you apply from now on. I thank you, and I don't ask you to vote in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23100	I must comment on asking you to leave it to the chairman, as far as the measures are concerned, that he will assess when he will give the measure. Please don't put pressure on the chairman like that. It's my free will, whether I estimate it or not. On the other hand, what you're saying now about taking up time, it only applies if I say a warning, and since I haven't said a warning to Mr. Djuric, I have no right to take his time away from his MP group. I'm sorry, or any MP. I accidentally mentioned your name. Mr. Cvian, please, at least you don't... The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23101	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, honourable MPs, at the beginning of the Prime Minister's exposé, a sentence appears, which I didn't quite understand because of the way it was constructed. "We have decided to enter the widest and most fundamental reconstruction of a government in Serbia's parliamentary history. “ Is that the most basic? So far, by the way, it's not. Of course, the government has the right to reconstruct itself, it's nothing controversial, after a year of working to replace ministers, to determine its second course, but the fact that this reconstruction is possible to enter into the history of those reconstructions that have lasted the longest, and it's very difficult to explain why the reconstruction lasted six months. I'll explain right away why I don't think it's a meaningless question. Six months of reconstruction took place, and most people, like me, got the impression that someone said we were reconstructing, and only then began to think about how they were going to reconstruct, who they were going to reconstruct, who they were going to replace, who they were going to replace. Since you insist in this exhibition, as prime minister, I can't blame it, for some reason, for some new optimism, for wanting Serbia to change, then you have to think about what's said here, which is that 24%, from some research, Serbian citizens don't think there's a government that's capable of changing the state of the country and it's devastating for all people, not just the government, first of all, for her, but for all people in Serbia's political life, it's disqualification of all the people who deal in this country with politics. One of the answers you have is that all of this takes six months, which is what the media is monitoring, which has their own interpretations of why it takes so long. I, for example, was particularly distracted by something about neither my profession nor my domain, it's for example. Speculation on whether or not the Minister of Construction should remain, should he not remain? I will state here that the Serbian Department of Construction was first formed in 1862. So in 1862, there were enough experts in Serbia to build, as said then in an act on the establishment of the Ministry of Construction, Bridges, Buildings, Roads, etc. In a formal sense, from large faces, etc., let's say before the formation of high school, high school, about 1897, the training of engineers begins in the sense that we understand it modernly today. Serbia has generations of extraordinary construction experts who have worked around the world. I have to defend my colleagues from Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering, who has always been one of the best universities of Belgrade University. The message is we don't have enough experts. You can give the answer – we can't agree, party interests. That minister can be an economist, he can be a manager, he's usually a construction engineer. It's a government decision and it can be anyone. He's also capable, no matter what. The message for those six months is that we don't have the experts, that the construction profession, something's missing. That's what the media reported in fact. You can say it now – I am not responsible for it. But it's an interpretation of the media and it was received by the citizens as a message. When you look at your commitment to this new optimism, I agree with it, but the new optimism must have something concrete in it. If you look at your exposé, Mr. President, apart from where you say 65% of the gross product is the one that was in 1989, which is true, and another in one place percent, the only exact thing in the exposé is the number of people arrested and the number of charges. This is, in that sense, a unique exposé, because the only thing that is quantified and which is precisely stated, is the fight against crime and corruption. Now I would say that it actually marks a year of government work, that's that this is what they're going to insist on, and other things are more or less in some way in another plan. Here, look for yourself, you'll see that there are political views left. All right, I appreciate that, but the only thing that's been given exactly is this. If you look at it, if you turn to history in the 20th century, you can choose any pattern you want, it's of course your right. Let's say, a president that Americans usually consider their great president, Roosevelt, came to power in the middle of a major American economic crisis with so-called. "it's a deal" or a new deal with the United States. He stated very precisely in his pre-election presidential campaign what would change. In fact, full employment and reduction of the economic crisis, the market and a whole series of concrete measures have been implemented directly. By the way, he also abolished prohibition, which was abolished literally on the day he was elected. America has abolished that stupid law again. I want to tell you, Mr. President, it's clear to me that politicians don't like firm promises. Everyone, not just you, is not an exception. I'd really be happier if I saw some concrete promises about what it would look like. You're in power for a year, you'll have more time, of course, ahead of you. You're telling yourself that no one can bring you down, the opposition can't just, how you've settled your deal on your own, or breaking up with your main coalition partner. What I'm saying is that I miss a new, more concrete promise – what will the government do in the next half year, over the next year? I'm finishing up because I don't have too much time. In these discussions here, there have been some claims about what fiscal policy will look like, what tax policy will look like, but I think it should have been written in this exposé, because when the government is reconstructed, then these new promises are made, with these new people. I miss it so much that it has strength. I'm afraid that no positive atmosphere has been created, but that what you have here on the third, fourth, number of arrests, number of investigations and the fight against corruption, your government will remain remembered for that. I'm not saying, Mr. President, that you are the bearer of that atmosphere, but that is the atmosphere that today's government in Serbia, and that is why this government will be remembered. Every government is remembered for something. I was in two governments, and each, in the end, has its own court of history. This government will unfortunately remain remembered, not by its economic successes, and by what is the greatest success of your government, which is undeniable, means, the speed and intensity of European integration, negotiations with Pristina, I have said it many times and written it, you have had the political courage to do it, it is undeniable, but I fear it will remain remembered for such data: how much we have arrested, how many indictments we have filed, as if it were the main and only content of the work of a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23102	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. You have nine minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23103	President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice-President, Mr. Minister, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen, have been discussing this issue for several days, which should finally end with the election of new ministers and the government continuing its work with full capacity. I will allow myself, as an SPS MP, to express our satisfaction to the SPS MPs that we belong to this coalition that has chosen a successful government. We can conclude that after decades of wandering, groping in Serbia, big promises and words, we finally have a government that has given visible results, at least if it comes from where we are today and what difficulties we are facing. If we accept that time has been measured since 2000, as some claim, then this government is certainly the best in that time since 2000. It should be said, once again, that the reconstruction is not the result of the opposition's pressure, nor the dissatisfaction of the general public or the fact that this government has failed. On the contrary, a change in Serbia has been launched in the past 13 months. A wheel that has been really difficult to resist, long ago, old habits, perceptions, barren demagogy, senseless pulsism and party interests. After all, this day-to-day debate has made it clear. In short, let me just say that the results of this government are on the foreign policy plan where a strong breakthrough in the direction of Eurointegration has been made. It has been executed or done with full steam to normalise relations with Pristina in order to ensure a safer and safer future for our citizens and our people in this area. Initial results are evident and encouraging in the economic sphere. We have a successful fight against corruption and we need to realize that today we have a much better position, an international legal and political position, and we can boast that thanks to this government we today have foreign partners to talk to and who will take steps towards Serbia's recovery together. The question was – why is the reconstruction being carried out? The reconstruction is done, it's quite clear, in order to faster turn the point of change, which I was speaking figuratively of. The reconstruction will give more power, a new flight to Serbia. It is about achieving the new goals and the more difficult goals ahead of us. It is necessary to warn and prevent mistakes made backwards and, most importantly, to build awareness of the need for greater and exhausting work and to raise responsibility, not only for government members, but also for other state bodies. Such a principle, such a practice is actually projected down there, projected on citizens, on people, that everyone in their work shows a different relationship. Practically, the government is one example in that direction. The proposed ministers are certainly part of this motor power, a new force that should seek the new successes of this government and of all state authorities. On this occasion, I would like to mention the new Minister of Education, Mr Tomislav Jovanovic, who should be given full support, because there are many, many problems in this sphere, both in education and in science. The outgoing minister, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, was actually faced with very big problems, taking that a very small percentage was used for the needs of education and science, in relation to what these personal incomes were, etc., and in such circumstances it was not possible to cope. One such system, where it's not sufficiently separate for education and science, is of course not sustainable. In that sense, he needs support. In addition to the fact that he announced that he would come out, surely in the sense that he would pay attention during his work to what are the current problems or to preventing new problems, in order not to put out the fire, I must mention that the outgoing minister also had one political burden of small graduation, stealing tests, where he was not directly guilty, but of course it was quite politicized. I want to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia believes in this government, and it will certainly deliver great results in the coming period. There is awareness in this government of the need for greater work. This incredible will, commitment and faith in the success of Prime Minister Dacic and Prime Minister Vukic's joke and members of the government is quite evident. This combination of great energy and determination to do more, I would say vividly, this miraculous alloy of strength, resolve and belief that it can be done more in Serbia is an amazing and valuable resource for Serbia, which should be used and which must not fail. In this sense, we give great support to this government, and this government has a historic chance to do much, much more for Serbia than everyone expected, and we really believe that. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, we MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia are urging you to do your job committed and to put aside your party interests and set a strong example of what is primarily Serbia's interest. Serbia must be at this point in the first place for all of us. Any other point, politically or partyly, should be put aside and one such appeal should actually be accepted by all members of this coalition. The Socialist Party of Serbia wishes you full success and victory in Serbia's recovery plan, which will long be remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23104	I am informing the Socialist Party of Serbia that the time it has had at its disposal has been spent, so the other registered MPs will not be able to get the word. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be very honest. From the very beginning, I felt that the government's reconstruction in the first year of its mandate was an unnecessary waste of time and the waste of the positive energy that was launched by its formation in Serbia. The first year of office is the most stable year. It's the year in which the ground is cleared. It's the year in which good relationships are built. It is the year in which the foundations are laid for what will be visible in the next period. Instead of doing this, six out of thirteen months on Serbia's political scene took place a complex chess game. In that party, as we have seen, it was not well managed even by Alice Maric, because there were more players, and the moves were exchanged through the media. In that game, the URS didn't participate, they did their job, and that's the only reason we're not part of this team anymore. To say today that because of the failure of economic policy, it was mildly said false, because there was success in the area of finance and economic policy. Mr. Vukic spoke of these successes today. The country came out of recession, export increased, industrial production increased, and these are the foundations I was talking about. Don't tell me, ladies and gentlemen, that someone in Serbia believed that in a country on the verge of bankruptcy it is possible to produce such results in the economy and finance that they are immediately visible in the standard of citizens. Only a wizard can do that. Neither can Mladjan Dinkic. But calling him on this is the same as asking, let's say, the prime minister's resignation because Serbia did not join the EU in the first year of the government's term. That is Serbia's legitimate goal, and it has not been achieved. But that, ladies and gentlemen, only someone who is completely ignorant, a great cynic or an unscrupulous populist. But that's the past, the reconstruction is behind us. Now we need to deal with the new government and the real question is – can we support this government? We want her to succeed, but we can't support her. Why? Because it left many ministers who did not work well, and many ministers who did well left it. Because we don't have clear relations between the parties in the coalition right now. The other day they were right here in parliament led to the edge of the grotesque. Because certain ministers are still arguing with the prime minister. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, because we still have the same prime minister. The prime minister who failed to maintain and harmonize the team that led, failed to bring him to the score and, according to us, he has no right to seek a mandate for the same job again. I won't talk much about the results our ministers had. I'll leave that to my colleague. We're proud of those results, ladies and gentlemen. But we'll be the opposition in the future. And yes, we will be a constructive opposition, we will support everything that is good and we will criticise everything that is bad. And these days we've criticised double bills for electricity. They come from the same company, i.e. from two different companies within the same system for the same accounting period, different accounts. The citizens are confused, they don't know if they should pay both, one or the difference. The worst part is, in order for the right to do so, they have to stand again in some infinite order. But there's also what's good. Good ideas are experts. Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, you've noticed perfectly, that's the idea that heritage is just the United Regions of Serbia. Yes, 14 years ago, we gathered 2,000 people of experts who had not previously been involved in politics and did not intend to deal with it. I'm one of them. Yeah, we brought some experts from abroad, some of them are still here. Because of these people you're bringing in right now, I'm telling you, and I remind you, why did we get into politics, and why didn't that idea really work out? Exactly because we lost political support for this idea very quickly, precisely because the idea was thrown at a mockery and ridicule, and many told us - and in whose name are you doing it? Who asked you to do that? What kind of experts are you? Go look for support in the election, ask the citizens if they will? That's why we're in politics today. But we still believe that idea, because strong good genius ideas don't die or even in Serbia. Here, you're running this idea today. That's good. We'll back it up. If I could vote individually for one of your ministers, I'd vote for two for sure. I would vote for Mr. Tasovac, if I had worked with him and I knew with what speed, lucidity and creativity he was turning challenges into problems, that not only is he a prominent artist, not only is he a remarkable man with the skills of communication, but he also has the skills of a modern manager, a serious modern manager in culture, and that's what Serbia needs. Excellent choice, Mr. Prime Minister, but Mr. Tasovac would also say master of the team game and you'll have something to learn from him. Yeah, you said last night that the government should be like a Philharmonic. I couldn't agree more. But Mr. Tasovac will tell you that while the performance lasts, the conductor stands back to the audience and faces to his team. He closely follows every performer and brings them all together to harmony that will give a tune and only in the end, the conductor turns to share success with his team, not between attitudes, not even between attitudes. Second, the minister I would support from all my heart is Mr. Krstic. Yes, a good child, a good student, a graduate of the world's finest school, a kind of financial expert, who's coming back to help his country. Yes, it is the achievement of the Serbian dream, at least the achievement of us Serbian parents, that this Petnica, I forgot. I am one of the parents who dreams of this dream and I would dare say that this dream is the most beautiful and important thing that Mr. Krstic brings to this government and to Serbia. No, some spectacular economic program. Yeah, savings. Yes, reduction of public spending, certainly cheaper state, better conditions to attract. It is the programme of Mladjan Dinkic. That's what the Fiscal Council says. That's what the IMF says, the World Bank. We know we have to do this, but we didn't have the support of all the parties in the previous government. What is important is that Mr Krstic gets support for this with his partners in parliament, and we will certainly give it in parliament, but also from the public of Serbia, because only so is Mr Krstic, and all our children can be successful in Serbia as well, and not only in the far-fetched white world. But I am worried about Mr. Krstic and I am afraid that the Serbian dream, a fragile Serbian dream, can collapse in front of the pulsism of certain parties on the Serbian political scene. For that, Mr. Krstic, they certainly didn't prepare you well enough at Yale. You will allow me, in the end, to share with you the joy that two other MPs are coming to the URS today and that the URS will have 50% of the women in its composition. We remain as always, not in words, but in the act of a true leader in Serbia's modernisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23106	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23107	Listening to these praises, I'd think the URS is about to cross 50% of the support of Serbian citizens, well, 60%. Let me tell you, you have nothing to say to me, I don't judge your work, I judge your work as prime minister, your work evaluates the people, judge the citizens. When you did so well as experts, how you won so little in the election. I want these experts who have entered the government, just to ask them – don't be such experts as they were. Because millions of people have lost their jobs from 2000 to today. A third of the privatisation has been cancelled. Workers consider it a statistical error. You did not suggest that Simpo become a state-owned company, but suggested that it become through bankruptcy. What are you ashamed of, that you turn your head when you don't know, ask your secretary of state, ask the members of the government? Write freely, he was taking notes and Mladjan Dinkic. Let me tell you one thing, the political blindness you're facing that you think I'm the only one who got you kicked out of the government isn't going to help you much. If it's easier for you to think that I don't love you, and Wolfie loves you, you still think so. But I'm not sure that it's possible for my decision to be just as supportive and that I have so much power in Serbia to make a decision, and that coalition partners have to accept that decision. If there's anything I think I did right in this government reconstruction, it's what I suggested to clear up the accounts. You're talking about teamwork. Ask your members of the government if there was a cabinet session where there was not a dozen entrys on the agenda by the Ministry of Finance. Do you think Dinkic consulted with us when he came out with tax proposals, additional charges. You think he consulted when he abolished the unemployment benefits temporarily on Kosovo and Metohija. Well, he canceled not only in advance but also seven months back. Then we had strikes and demonstrations in Kosovo and Metohija. What teamwork are you talking about? Besides, when it comes to "Simp" I already told you. Together you participated in the glorification and this Dragan Tomic. I said, I don't have any interest, no use, I'm interested in those five, six thousand people who work there. You may be in a factual error, so you think you have huge support for the citizens. Go ahead, don't be mad. I suggested that you be members of this government, now I suggest you no longer be. It's politics. What are you saying now? Teamwork, conductor. You can't sing the same song, the time has changed. You sing the same old song. Mr. Sutanovac, you were a member of the Simpa Management Board, not me. Is it true? And how are you to be a member of the Simpa Management Board? Why? And Free Milisavljevic? Did Mr. Djelic speak at the opening? All the prime ministers were at that Dragan Tomic. Now you're in a situation, don't make me look through the archives. Serbian Prime Minister visited Simpo. Why are you ashamed of that? He was good to you all in the election campaign, when votes should be provided. What do I care about Dragan Tomic? I'm interested in the workers. I watched what Dinkic said yesterday, since I didn't even follow what he said these days, he says – I will end my term by establishing zero tolerance. Why didn't he start it like that? Why hasn't he been so determined all these years in other things? So, I really said what I said yesterday, and I don't want to do any more URS. I told you about some times, and I'm not getting into it anymore. I never acted incorrectly on you once, but you know what, some truths have to be made public, which is that this government couldn't survive in this format anymore and that it wouldn't survive in the long run with the U.S.S. government. If I think wrong, there are other coalition partners to talk me out of it. Because they didn't convince me because they didn't think otherwise that decision was made. I wish you good luck, I wish you good luck whatever you do because I don't believe we'll meet in parliament in the future, but in any case, I wish you a lot of success and personal happiness, but in a political sense, I'm sure it's the past, and we don't have time for that, let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23108	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23109	I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I don't mind when the prime minister addresses the MPs directly I think that's great for the discussion, but we must respect the elemental dignity. It's absolutely untrue that millions of people were out of work after 2000, because it would mean that in 2000, two million and 800,000 people worked in Serbia. I'm just saying that there weren't so many people in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23110	I won't let you go any further. Please, what's true or not true is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Republic has Snezani Stojanovic Plassic, then Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23111	I really don't know, Mr. Prime Minister, what I've hurt you for, here are the citizens who send me messages and say, "The Prime Minister is nervous." I don't know, it's their impression, I can show you the messages. So, I don't know why you're nervous and exactly where you disagreed with me. I presented the thesis that you confirmed that this reconstruction was a matter of politics, that reconstruction was not a matter of results. That's what I said. You said, unsustainable in that format, because of the transfer of political forces, I agree, it's perfectly fine, there's no dispute there and that's just what I wanted to explain. I didn't mention "Simpo" at all. We can talk about him, but I don't think it's the subject of our controversy. That, Mr. Prime Minister, who has so many votes, who is the past and who is the future, I ask you not to discuss it. I think you and I are both above the polemics. For years in Parliament, I listened to a group of MPs talking and saying, "You are the past, we are the future." Our time is just coming. As much as you have a percentage, will you pass the census, etc. You know what, we're still here, and the SRS is no longer on the political scene, so don't make any arguments about who's going to stay, and whoever's not going to stay, we'll see, I hope that we and you stay. We've been together in three governments and it's not nice to fight and fight like that. This is a political scene, it has political decisions, you're the prime minister, we're the opposition, we move on and we'll see what happens in the future. Serbia is interested in the future, not in the past. Serbia is well aware of who the plus-squamperfect is in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23112	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23113	Now, here's a work-related injury, so I'm gonna be able to say that, right? So, Article 128, if a million people were out of work, maybe three or four of them could get a job in the Serbian Parliament, instead of these MPs holding cards in MPs, and they're not there the day the government is elected. I'm advertising Article 128. The cards stand in the front row of the SNS, in the fourth row behind Mr Drecun, are now drawn, in New Serbia's parliamentary benches. Please, in accordance with section 128 of the competent service, remove the card.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23114	Please, why are you reacting so loudly? To what end, let us be dignified, when it comes to cards in the Rules of Procedure, every MP is obliged to take his card out of the O.R. and take it with him. Mr. Djuric is right, I can support him. It was, I saw it myself, but I don't know exactly, I saw a couple of cards and she's right. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23115	If counterpart Bojan Djuric was right about parliamentary units and cards in parliamentary units, he was wrong when he called for a violation of Article 128. The Rules of Procedure, while at the same time communicating with the prime minister regarding the number of employees or unemployed. I only ask that you draw attention, I advertise Article 27, and you heard well at the beginning, when Bojan Đurić was advertised by the Rules of Procedure, that, as he did yesterday and the previous days, he was misusing his rules of procedure, so I asked what he was privileged to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23116	Mr. Jovanovic, please... (Employee Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: This is a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure and I ask that the Assembly be made known about it. No, I won't give you, you're doing a replica, and I won't let you speak any further. Please sit down and don't make me make warnings. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23117	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday you showed that you're having a bad time with history, both further and closer, but also for the truth and for all those viewers who watch this broadcast, and they watched yesterday's impression and read what you're saying these days, it would be fair and fair to say one fact. I was elected Minister of Defence in 2007 on 15 May under the Government Act as a minister you cannot be a member of the board of directors of any company. So, if I was a member of the Simpa Management Board, and I was, that was about seven years ago. You have destroyed Simpo in the last year and do not talk about Simpo seven years ago. This "Simpo" was never seen for this present miracle. On the other hand, this project that you are talking about is supposed to be supported and fully supported, and it is not the only example that Simpo has in other companies. Today, like these days, you are skillfully avoiding talking about the subject you came here to talk about. Today, gas in Serbia has accumulated 4.4% and that is the topic we are interested in. You're talking about that dinar course being fixed, but for that same course, you can't buy the same amount of food as last year, the wave of collection and the most expensive food in Europe. Unfulfilled promises to the farmers, and finally to us. You said that you would end a series of agencies, reduce the government, and today we have a situation to form an even bigger government than it was and not only not to respect gender equality, but we will have a government that has three ministers without portfolios. How many agencies have you shut down? Where's that savings you're talking about, besides saving on behalf of those who don't? This story where you take care of them, and we don't see that you've changed the tax laws that would put those who have it in line, it's just that, whether it was Dinkic or you, whether he was making those decisions besides you, it's your fault, it's not the MP's fault, it's not Mr Dinkic's fault, but you, if I understand you correctly...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23118	Time. As far as the URS MPs are concerned, I can give the replica to Slavica Saveljic, as deputy head of the parliamentary club. Mr. Milenich, I can't give it to you. You're not mentioned by name, and I can't give it to you. I'm sorry, here comes the Prime Minister, well, you do. Here you are, MP Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23119	Mr. President, the way you talk about your coalition partner today, the minister of your government and the man you voted to be part of a big team again the other day, and he's running an important job for this state of Serbia, I have to admit, he talks more about you than he does about you. About how Mladjan Dinkic worked, I think you said the best in your exposé. There's one part where in two-thirds of the results you've been talking about, you've actually listed everything that people in the U.S.S. have been doing. So you were talking about an increase in industrial production. You were talking about an increase in exports. You spoke of new investors "Etihad" explicitly cited as someone who came to this country. I must remind you that this is exactly what Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, the U.S.S. You were talking about European integration. Without wishing in any way to diminish the importance of what you or Mr. Wolfie did. I hope you will be so correct that you will admit that in all of this, a large share was also part of the Vice-President of the Government of Mrs. Susana Grubjesic. Also, Mr. President, all of what your plans are for the future, or one part of the plans, is fully consistent with the URS programme, and above all, I am thinking of the part where you have indicated that in the future you will work on Serbia's even economic development, and giving equal opportunities to regions. So, the almost prescribed parts of the URS programme. You failed, though, in the department. We expect you to correct that, and in that sense, we can discuss other suggestions afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23120	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23121	I would ask that we return to the subject, and I responded to what you said. Listening to you, I would think that Mladjan Dinkic actually brought sheik to Serbia. He did the technical part of the job. As far as I know, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, established communication with him and established a friendly relationship with him, which allowed him to have a business relationship. Not now from the fact that he participated in the technical work to make it appear that he played an equal role as Mr. Vukic. It's not right for Mr. Wolf. On the other hand, when it comes to Simpa. I will only specify the document that your ministry has proposed, where it is said in the explanation – that it is proposed that the process of restructuring be implemented in bankruptcy, i.e. it is important to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. Am I lying or is this the Treasury document? The next document that came after consulting with Vice President Vukic's office and mine was without a bankruptcy procedure, and that was the problem. When it comes to Mr. Sutanovac, the same document says, since he said the problems "Simpa" have arisen in the last year, at least you admitted that you were on the board of directors of Simpa... (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: in ROS. In ROS, well, anyway. What exactly do you guys, I don't understand, how can you not offer me Dragan Tomic when I'm with the SPS? Since right now with DS, I don't understand, we have to exclude Dragan Tomic from the SPS, really, who he's been working with from other political parties. It says in a document written by the Ministry of Finance the same thing, commitments to state creditors amounted to so much and so much, 54m euros on the day of 31.12.2004, so don't talk about it being in the last year, but it doesn't really matter. That's all I'm saying because your party president said someone should go to jail for not paying taxes, let him keep track of what he's saying, because you were in Simpa's administrative bodies too. I agree with you, every government is when it's made, the government is formed on political criteria, I don't know how you think that there's a different government in the terms of a multiparty system, how? On what criteria is the government formed? Based on who thinks of himself? It is formed on the basis of who has how many votes and who has how many parliamentary mandates. I didn't say anything wrong, I said that political agreement means that this coalition continues to function in this form. My opinion was that it was impossible to maintain the government's political stability in conditions for Mladjan Dinkic to hold a portfolio of economy and finance. On the other hand, I couldn't accept his request to have an appropriate second function that would have been combined by several different ministries and that story was over. As far as I'm concerned, as far as you're concerned, we can lead the controversy, but I have no reason to... (Sasa Milenic, from the post: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know what I hurt the Rules of Procedure in, so you're reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me tell you one thing, I've been an MP here for 20 years and I know that the injuries of the Rules of Procedure are always used for discussion and I've used it. Take your word for it, I don't mind, talk as much as you want, but we don't go through any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. If you have time to criticise the government, criticise the government freely, say whatever you want, and not through the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, we hide ourselves in such a way that we deem it wrong. Here you go. So, I'm not gonna answer again if you don't think that I won't answer again unless someone calls me directly until the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23122	Mr. Milenić, I now have the conditions to give you a replica, if that's better for you, but you have to wait since the Sutanovac has asked for it before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23123	Mr Dacic, in this House, I was sitting with a dear gentleman, a folk MP, in front of the SPS, Milan Nikolic, who today was not among the living, who was at the same time the director at Simpa. I'm sorry he's not here today to tell you how wrong you are. As important as Simpo was to you, it was more important to us "Jumko", so for the past three years we have managed to raise this company to work and work and we have had a relationship, as you say, if someone there is from another party. I think the kind of approach you're showing here today clearly shows that everyone in front of you is from your parties, because there are people who were activists, on the other hand, in the first row. So what's the point of discussing who's from which party if someone contributes to something progressing? (Ivica Dachi, from the place: Why are you angry? ) Now you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're throwing, but it's not the subject, it's not even the subject here, it's not even the divorce, I see a bereaved bride who's guilty of leaving the groom, who thinks he's grown up and he's prettier than he was, the subject is why today in Serbia is less alive than last year at this time, why isn't that stable course of the euro living better? Why can't you buy more? Why did the gas pick up 4.4% today? Why are agricultural products never cheaper? Why didn't you meet the subsidies to the farmers? Why is agricultural exports never less? What makes the only thing that works here is the thing that we've worked on for five years together, and that's "Fiat"? If you rely on one sheik, there's nothing from that job, as in the 1990s you relied on the diaspora, and then you talked about some government of national salvation, brotherhood of unity, the non-party government, the expert government, and it's always been worse and worse. Please answer the word, but to explain to us those issues that interest citizens, which makes Serbia worse living than last year, that's the main issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23124	Replica, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23125	I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for the collegiation of the act of giving me the opportunity to reply, because that call for dialogue certainly knows that it is a business impossible, except when you make a gesture of goodwill in a direct address, as you have done. There is no passion or emotion at all, let alone bile and dissatisfaction, in discussions of the MPs of the URS. That's what we notice about you, but it's not a subject we want to criticize. It's even human and presympathic than unpleasant. What is being presented is the political problem and topic of the agenda, which is the actual political programme on which the government's future work is planned. As at the previous session, where in the heat of the discussion, it suddenly moved on to the bagatellisation of the market and its freedom and competition, although we advocate European integration and economic development, so now Mladjan Dinkic is a symbol of everything that has been going on since 2000. I don't know if it has such symbolic capacity as the president of the URS, but apparently it now produces one contradiction to the text of the exposé, that the government does not want at all European integration, the reform course and Serbia's progress, but rather a return to pre-five-October traditions and foundations. That's the essence of the message, as I understand it. So, the serious problem with the Government of the Republic of Serbia is logical inconsistency, openness to political messages P and not type P, preparedness to advocate mutually exclusive attitudes. It makes it logically consistent and, as such, dangerous to society.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23126	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23127	Dear President-in-Office, Prime Minister, ministers, candidates for new ministers, respected fellow MPs, we have had the opportunity these days to consider the exposés of the Prime Minister in which the accent was clearly given to the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this part, some four guidelines have been given in which not only the government, but also this parliament will move in the future. The first is a minimum of social justice. The second part is tax policy. The third is part of the non-mixing, practically, state-of-the-art business of public enterprises. The fourth part, which I think is, and most interesting, is the part that concerns the vote of law and the creation of legal legislation that will be meaningful, which means that it will be applicable, because we have a sea of laws that we simply don't apply. In some ways, the discussion of the Ministry Act has shown a large amount of laws that have been viewed differently in the past, as well as in the present. I'm talking about the part of the Law relating to the area of environmental protection. What is the debate in the details of the Ministry Act has shown that there is a readiness of all parliamentary groups that this area should be settled, but what this government has inherited in the last 13 months is an old model, practically imposed model, the functioning of this area. What the EU is asking us, according to the Europe 2020 Strategy, to which the minimum five ministries in this government will deal with, is that it must move within the framework of social justice, i.e. works relating to the creation of new jobs, social inclusion and the area of environmental protection. We have been asked questions about the ministries, because of marketing activity, is Serbia on its way to people or to nature? No, we're both for people and for nature, in the function of economic development. What is a global issue of environmental protection is what Serbia has designed, not what the EU has designed, but simply imposed the issue, to ensure the sustainability of development not only of the economy, but also of the country's budget. What needs to be triggered is a sure reform of the environment policy. What Europe is asking of us are the EU's objectives and the opening of Chapter 27. It also requires that the area of the environment be located in one place, and the area of natural resources, and the water industry, forestry and the area related to emergency situations, and the sustainability of finance. As you can see, many ministries have the need to co-operate together in this area just to start the economy and that is what is the essential problem at this point – not co-operation in this horizontal sense. Therefore, as Prime Minister and Prime Minister, we ask that, ultimately, you hear all the initiatives that will be through the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, where we will ask as representatives of all political parties to sort out this area in a way that is stronger and better and accept the consensus of all political entities for this area. We can't abandon this subject. We can't bring her down to the day-to-day questions if it's a tree or if it's for people, if it's for the freeway. Simply, such an area is not placed as one marketing area for individuals, but as a fundamental issue for every country that intends not only to respect EU directives, but to make economic and economic progress. As for our candidates for the new ministers, I would first of all thank them for having responded in the first place and for accepting such responsible functions, because at this point they gave the greatest wealth they have, which is their name and last name. The hardest thing to do is to put your name and last name and your career at the disposal of the state at a time when, you know, the common people say, who enters politics, simply, will get very dirty and will never be able to regain their reputation. It simply must change in Serbia. By accepting candidates to sit in political miles with their profession, sitting in this arena, being asked directly by citizens' representatives, it is very difficult, on the one hand. On the other hand, he'll go to the ministry. Whatever they want to run as some good idea of their own, they'll get answers from the state administration -- well, you know, it's not according to this law or that law, you know, you can't do it. Then it will come to the fact that time will pass and will be in a position to feel insecure. This is the moment we talked about as MPs, that you should come to assembly committees, that you should run, and we will help you through certain public hearings, international conferences, simply raise awareness and the need to change in that part of the law just for Serbia to move forward. I hope that on that path, Serbia's improvement will succeed. We'll give you all the support. I hope that tomorrow we will have a new approach, a new concept not only of Serbia's economy, but of what Serbia should look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23128	The word has the People's MP Marko Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23129	Ladies and gentlemen, the Brussels Agreement, signed by the government, is an act of the greatest national edition in the history of the Serbian people. The agreement itself represents in the most cruel way of satining the foundation of spirituality on which the Serb people rest in general, and just five years ago, in this same home, then the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, some of whom are still in parliamentary benches, refused much better for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija more favourable Ahtisaari's plan. What forces of heaven have driven the political elite of the Serbian state to change its position? Just naked power. The government, which was from 2008 to 2012, as is the current one, has been created by the ambassadors of the Western countries, primarily the United States. The price of coming to power was flexibility or, better say, betrayal of Kosovo and Metohija. That's why during the previous government we had so-called. Bork's agreements, and today the Brussels Agreement, which is essentially a capitulation of the Serbian state. Otherwise, this betrayal is defended under the pretext that it is due to the better lives of Serbian citizens, because if they surrender Kosovo and enter the EU, they will live better. In reality, as close as the EU gets, citizens are living on a system that's getting closer and closer to Nis, they're writing worse. That's why today's election is so-called. The reconstructed Serbian government is just a simple political farce, as the government in Serbia is neither in the assembly nor in the government, but is located in Western embassies and the heads of these embassies are the real masters of Serbia. The government's main success is its alleged fight against corruption and crime in Serbia. Let me remind you that the biggest crime in the legal system is every state so-called. An act of national high treason. In America, 25-year-old Bradley Manning received 35 years of strict prison information. If we follow the American principle of justice, I'm afraid that because of the betrayal of KIM, our state leadership would be mostly in prison. (The President: Mr. Yaksic, I warn you of your conduct and those things which you declare, accuse people of treason and treason. So it's scary what you're doing in this home. If you keep going, I'll take your word for it, you go ahead. You've taken up a minute, Mr. President. For comfort, it may serve to say the Separatist government in Pristina, to repay the leaders of the government, so let's say one of the streets in Pristina, bears the name of Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. Now, if it's gonna be near Tonya Blair Street, or Bill Clinton, it's gonna stay to be seen. (President: I give you a second warning. ) Ladies and gentlemen, today we are choosing a reconstructed government of Serbia, but we still need to remember what the champions of this government said in the election campaign. Thus, Serbia's president, then presidential candidate, Master Tomislav Nikolic, said he would annul all of Bork's agreements and there would never be a border between KIM and central Serbia. He lied to us. He made a border on Jarinj and Brnjak. Instead of revoking Bork's arrangements, he served us along with the government ten times the Brussels Treaty. In our people, Vuk Karadzic wrote – nobody as big as a Turk does not lie. It seems to me that this power makes it even bigger. However, we have been enslaved for five centuries under the Turks, so it is likely that this singer left a mark on our political elite. In addition, until some time ago, as I recall, the SNS leaders had a major Serbia political programme, and even the current SNS president, if I recall, was editor of the magazine "Great Serbia". Today, I fear when they are in power to implement a political programme of great Albania. Simplified, it doesn't matter if Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23130	I'm taking your word. The word has been given by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23131	I think you've hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and by the act of abuse of authority in the conduct of the session. In fact, we've all heard the words of the previous speaker, and we've heard your warnings, which you said three times in a row, and I think there are at least two reasons I'm going to call on right now, which is why I think it's an abuse of the situation in the conduct of the session and that is the very injury of the Rules of Procedure. The first is the contental reason for the exposure itself. If someone uses difficult words, if they use certain qualifications, which have both their morphological and Semantic meaning in their essence and can be explained in other words, I, namely, would not use those words, but should listen to and content of exposure and take care of the meaning of what is said. If in this way we treat the content of what is said, we are in some way introducing a delict, a verbal delicacy in the National Assembly, and I remind you that older than your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is the letter of the Constitution and the letter of the Law on the National Assembly and the rights that the MP has in his presentation for which he cannot be held accountable, not in that way as you interpret the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This did not destroy the dignity of government members, the House of the National Assembly, or the citizens of Serbia, but rather the autonomous interpretation of the MP as to how he sees a certain policy being implemented. Whether I would sign the same word or not, that's entirely relevant. I think you've also formally violated the Rules of Procedure and I end up with this because you can't practically take on self-inflicted interpretation in a case like this. So that's not correct. On the other hand, it's about an MP coming from KIM territory, literally, literally, and if there's not even a shred of tolerance between us for such a thing, then your procedure speaks for itself and more than anything else, even from his words.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23132	Unfortunately, I don't think you're absolutely right. According to Article 27, I am the only one in this room, who is in charge of applying the Rules of Procedure, and I only decide whether or not the infringement has been committed or not, and I am taking some disciplinary measures. Of course, there are several ways of protection and the MPs have the opportunity to apply them, and as far as the decisions of the National Assembly are concerned, the National Assembly will declare this in the day of the vote. When people's MPs happen to be accused of treason, then it's a brutal insult to the dignity of that person and that man, unless there's a court ruling for it. You know, there's a verdict for that. Of course, there is such a crime, you may not know it, but there is such a crime, and you can condemn a man and then there's no problem with being called that. But some of these things that are being brought here deserve a warning, and most of the other MPs did not receive such a warning because of their presentation of their views. The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23133	I would like in a few words, not to answer what Mr. Jaksic was talking about, because it is a pointless attempt, but it seems to me that Mr. Aligrudic is in one thing right. All that Mr. Marko Jaksic spoke much more about him and those who supported him than about those he spoke to. I don't even want to hit back. I don't even want to remind you of who did it and what did it to Kim, who was letting Flyr Brown and the Mazrek brothers do it without any of us doing it. Let's keep it for history. What's much more important to me is this. What is it that anyone's plan is for Kim? What is it that we can do without respecting reality, respecting what Serbs have in northern Kosovo, but also south of the Ibar River, to know well what the Albanians have and to try in peace to make some progress for our people and to preserve our country's territorial integrity. If there are solutions that are wiser, smarter, more serious, we are willing to talk about it and accept them. Because someone is going to yell, so as soon as they're done smiling, have you seen how I told them, I'm not particularly impressed and not a bit fascinated. As I didn't just scream from a moment ago that we're living uncomparably badly today, why even though we don't have a fixed rate, we have a stable currency, a very stable currency for the first time in modern Serbian history, that for more than a year such a good dinar stands. I only want those who say that things collect a lot more than before, that inflation is one or the other, inflation this year will be 4+1.5, so we expect it to be less than 5%. Don't forget, last year was 13%. International inflation is 8.6%. I think it tells Serbian citizens a lot of things, but we're talking about real, real statistics, not what it's easy to yell or throw something out of place, expecting it to get citizens' sympathy even though you haven't told people the truth. What I think is terribly important to us, is that we try to concentrate on the real improvement of our country, try to show what it is that we can do, where the results we can make are, and not to see as hard a word or an insult as possible, humiliate someone. Usually people can humiliate themselves with certain statements, hardly the other. There are people who are ashamed of something and people who are not ashamed of anything. I'm proud of the fact that I belong to that first category of people. I am sad that there are those who can use Ducic’s password and can be easily noticed, which is “that they are not ashamed of anything, that they are not afraid of anything at all. ” It seems to me that people like that need to be looked after. As far as Serbia is concerned, fortunately, they are not guarding it. It's being guarded by someone else, and as far as we can keep it and if we can keep it, and I mean its economic progress, it seems to me, in the best possible way, that's what the citizens are going to assess. But people like this, Ducic says, one should fear the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23134	Is anyone answering the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Jaksic, you've been told to take a word, so you don't need to answer. You don't have the right to speak today's session anymore. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23135	Article 107. So, it was caused by your interpretation after my discussion and I ask that we plead to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, Article 107. I think you're hurting the dignity of this house, the chairman, or the president of the National Assembly. Your argument is equal to the essence and strength of the reasoning that we once received from a vice president who belonged to a current opposition party, who warned us and asked us not to say that there is no bill or that the provisions provided for in it are anti-constitutional, but that it is jurisdiction only of the Constitutional Court and that it is not ours to think and think about whether the proposal for a law on Vojvodina is, for example. Anti-constitutional or not. It just means that if in this way we deny the right of the MPs to think, to say what they think, no matter how difficult it sounds, it is a direct violation of the Constitution of Serbia, parliamentary rights and the Law on the National Assembly. That's what I'm warning you. So I still think that now your argument that you've given is adequate to this case that I just said, not entering into the content and essence of what was said here. It's a replica business, it's a job for discussion, which one of us has a right and when he does. This content has nothing to do with it, but with the form for which you are responsible, despite the fact that I still believe that all the earlier measures that have been made are deeply unfair.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23136	You have the right, of course, to consider it and the National Assembly will declare itself in the voting day, and then we will determine whether you or I were right. As far as this is concerned, whenever a national MP uses offensive terms and expressions, I will always give him disciplinary measures, and it has nothing to do with any previous statement by any vice president or chairman of the National Assembly, but with today's session at which the MP spoke offensively about other people and thus deserved measures, not from what he spoke. At times when he said some of the things, which you can see in the stenogram, I didn't tell him anything because he was talking about political qualifications and his experience. The moment he took advantage of the offensive terms that define this Rules of Procedure, he got disciplinary measures and it will be with each other. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure who wants a word? Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23137	I support this attitude of yours, Mr. President. Articles 106 and 107. In terms of dignity, then apply it to all sides. I am asking you as president of the Assembly to use this principle of avoiding offensive expression in situations which, unfortunately, have been enough in the last two days, when representatives of the executive or majority use such qualifications, for example, for leaders of the strongest opposition parties. Then explain to me, if Jaksic can say what no one here would support and condemn, how can a representative of the government say about someone who is the richest and biggest tycoon and perhaps a criminal? Then how do we do it? Then how do you not react and react in these situations? I ask you to take this as an appeal to apply to all sides. When you say something that can't be checked, and this, let's say, can't be checked either, because it's someone's experience, then you put other experiences in the same frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23138	I'm just saying, truth be told, I haven't heard anyone say about President DS he's a criminal. I really didn't hear that. If I had, I would have warned him. Is the qualification that one of the richest men is offensive? I don't. I don't think it's an offensive qualification. Is doing political damage, that's another thing, but I can't get into it. I must take advantage of the example, Mr Milivojevic once very skillfully, using what exists in the Rules of Procedure, talking about the subject of the agenda, using political qualifications that all fall within the scope of the work and the Rules of Procedure. I could never give him any kind of measure or warn him that he was violating those procedural rights. There are other MPs who are not so skilled, who use a way that can be offensive. But I agree with you. Be assured, every Messenger of the people who uses abusive terms and expressions will be warned. According to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to select new members of the Government as soon as possible. The word is by MP Zoran Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23139	I'm advertising a breach of members 106th and 107th. Mr. President of the Assembly, entering the O.R., I heard Mr. Jaksic mention the traitors, so I immediately wanted to report to the replica. For years, that word has been reserved for some other people, and it has been reserved for those to whom it is now being directed. After listening, I must say that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, because you are another reminder, and I have no reason to defend Mr. Jaksic, far away, but you have given him another warning about the sentence that he hopes that one street in Pristina will be named Dacic. I really don't understand why that would be a warning. It's not a claim that he's a traitor, and he's not convicted of treason, etc. We've been listening to those expressions for almost 20 years and nobody's ever complained. All right, time's changed, but I really think you were kind of nervous. A man has prepared himself, he has begun his rhetoric, which many of you are in the O.R., I think, close. I don't see why you're nervous now. If you look at the stenogram, you will see that you gave the warning to Jaksic because he expressed confidence or hope or whatever for that street. It is not equal to calling someone a traitor, even if one who often used that word in a dictionary. So now that you've taken away his word, I can't use the right to reply, and he can't even answer me. Anyway, I think you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23140	You certainly have the right to do that. We'll get to the voter's vote in the day. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23141	I signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23142	You have the right to a replica when I give it to you. Then the MPs who asked for the Rules of Procedure will speak first, and then you will get the word. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23143	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Ministers of Honor, Ministers' Candidates, definitely, Article 107. Rules of Procedure, there are some things I don't understand and I don't understand the previous speaker. In Serbia, and I believe everywhere in the world, street names are given to people who have left a trail, but who unfortunately are no longer alive. I fully agree, Mr. Stefanovic, with your reaction to taking away words and saying the warning, but whether this is again promoting the language of threats, the language of writing history with blood, and I think a lot of such ugly things have happened in the past. We want to build a country that will write its history with victories, which will write with life, which will write with development, stability, reforms, and not by calling on such ugly things. I agree, Mr. President, and I fully support the measures given to Mr. Jaksic for that and for a series of false things that have been told, but that... [[President: I'm just asking you not to turn it into a replica.]] (President: Don't rephrase Mr. Jaksic. )......................................................................................................... prevent promotion of such things and such ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23144	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23145	I'm advertising a violation of Parliament's dignity. You didn't react again. I absolutely nothing, from what the previous speaker said by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't say. So whoever's watching the Assembly might have, and he hasn't heard me, if he thought I was calling for blood, for murder, and so on, for dead people, there was no intention of me, after all, I think when someone says... (President: You can do this in the replica. )......................................................................................................... Plus out of perfection, it is possible to invite some kind of departure in the sense in which Jaksic spoke. I had no objection to the first or third of your notice. I said the other one was exaggerated.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23146	Mr. Lapčević according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23147	Mr. President, you have injured Article 109 of Section 2 which says - the warning is made to the MP who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of... (President: I apologize, Article 109 has only one position. He's got point two, but he doesn't have point two. ) I mean point 2. -... which, despite the warning of the National Assembly, is a matter that is not on the agenda. So, you never once warned Mr. Jaksic. You immediately started with warnings, which is not in line with Article 109, and on the other hand, interpreting that Mr. Jaksic hurt his dignity by not using appropriate expressions and words. Would you like to issue an instruction on how to behave and what to tell you? Are you going to tell us how to praise you so that it might not hurt you? Just now, a colleague of yours is disciplining how we should talk and what expressions to use, and now you. What do we have to talk about? As an opposition to praise you? That doesn't happen anywhere. It never was. Give that instruction and tell the opposition he can say it and he can say it in that way and he can't do it differently, so at least we know.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23148	That sounds very nice. But it doesn't match what I did. I did not warn Mr. Jaksic because he did not use certain terms and words, but because he used them and every subsequent MP... How come someone in your MP group didn't get a warning to use such expressions? Because you didn't use them. Anyone who uses such terms will get it either from the government or from the opposition. It's totally like that. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 1620 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. I propose that we establish a mandate for Members of Parliament in the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the mandate of Members of Parliament in order to complete the seats of Members of Parliament in the Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Mladjan Dinkic, Verica Kalanovic and Suzani Grubjesic, elected from the election list URS – Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee of Administrative Budgets and of the mandate-immunity issues of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Mladjan Dinkic, Verica Kalanovic and Suzani Grubjesic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to approach for their oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the national envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! “ Please sign the text of the oath. Congratulations and allow me to wish you successful work together. We're going back to work. The word is from the MP Slobodan Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23150	So, according to Article 27. Mr. President, at the end of the previous debate, you said you'd give me the word I asked for on the basis of the replica. I waited patiently, you concluded the debate, set a break, and I expected it to continue where we left off, given what you said. Now you continue the discussion as if it hadn't happened. So please go back to what you actually said yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23151	I don't mind, you just weren't registered in the system. You've been an MP long enough to know that it works that way, when I see the application, because you have the right to give up the replica. So it's not something that the MP's obligation is to have a replica, if that's what he wants, but you have a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23152	Thank you. So, this replica refers to part of the exhibition of Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, the part concerning the operation and the past way of working of the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, led by President Kostunica, and is bound by so-called The release of Flora Brovina and the Mazarek brothers. I would just answer that, to the question of who released the persons mentioned, no one released the persons mentioned or, rather speaking, released them from prison by the state authorities under the Amnesty Act that was passed in early 2001. It was an answer to what Marko Jaksic was saying, which was still holding on to the current topic. So whatever you think about what he said, he was holding on to the subject unlike this historic reminisence, and I'd like once and for all to get it off the agenda of this interpretation, which seems to me to be the only thing that's right. As far as the current situation is concerned, I have to make an impression, one that the current government, state officials, has placed the apparatus into one activity that takes place on the basis of the decision of the president of Kosovo. I cannot understand why our state authorities would implement the decision of the president of Kosovo, unless it is in force, without even noticing a new situation, which is the situation that Serbia is transformed into an autonomous province of the Republic of Kosovo, because otherwise some decision by the president of the illegal and false state of Kosovo would be carried out by our state bodies based on the applicability of the highest state officials and the good work of the state apparatus. It's the present and it's actually the topic that took Mark Jaksic's word away from him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23153	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23154	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reconstruction is such that we can respond to it with a mime, I just don't know what to show by the expression of the face first – anger, sadness, not rarely and laughter in these six months. All of this would be an answer to this six-month reconstruction that, you said, should bring Serbia a new perestroika. We didn't even start right away, and we're running into a problem. I know it's embarrassing that we're asking questions about the Prime Minister. Who's the prime minister? But we don't impose those questions on us, that's what you impose. It's a comprehensive analysis of your work not on our part, by the citizens. I really don't know what to say now, Prime Minister, who's going to nod? Dacic or Wolfie? Without any idea of degradeing the most important political function in the country, you've done it before any of us. He agreed that Mr. Dacic, a year ago as prime minister, would be another government man, and then in this reconstruction, he fought so hard and fought to continue to be what he wasn't, the prime minister. Mr. Vukicu, unlike Dacic, who agreed to be who he wasn't, you fought for it, but then, in addition to your authority, you have the responsibility of the Prime Minister. What is it called when, as first vice president of the government, you deal with both the chips and the rockets and the Arabs, and the MiGs, and the aflatoxin, and the oak, and the Red Star, and the Partisan, and the arrests, and the release of criminals? What's it called in the middle of a debate about Sochi media through Facebook, when the TV subscription was lifted? It's called the collapse of institutions. It's called mistrust in people you've delegated to do that job. It's called mistrust in your coalition partners, so this reconstruction takes six months. It's not just six months, it's 150 working days, it's 2,000 hours. A lot of problems could have been solved during this time. There was no willingness to change the relationship you have with each other in government, intrigue, plots. There was no willingness to change the relationship you have with other coalition partners, according to the opposition, towards human rights. There was no willingness to reconstruct politics, not people. That's why we won't support this new government where nothing is different except the names of some ministers. The reconstruction has led to a bad policy. Fleeing from responsibility and inability to stick the government's finger to the Democratic Party after a year and accuse all the evils of this world. For a year you've been in power, take responsibility for the condition in which our society is today. Serbia has fallen morally today, culturally devastated, a financially overindebted country. No one in their right mind can be happy about it. We're not happy about Serbia's silence today, she's scared. You have the support of 250 MPs to fight corruption, but we will not be silent when it becomes a witch hunt and anyone who could stand in the way of Serbia becoming a one-minded state. That's not what we're gonna keep quiet about, 'cause that's not what we're talking about. Life starts where fear stops. A year ago in the exposé, you put one of the priorities of the fight against the white plague. Is there any hope in this reconstructed exposé for people who want to start their own family, to have a child? What kind of health system, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, are they entering today? It's true, it's not the minister's fault for this devastating situation in society, in health care, but what's different than a year ago? Do doctors have at least a little better status in society? Do citizens have at least a little better medical treatment, where after the '90s we're talking about drug shortages again? Half of Serbia had to stand on its feet to get little Anita Balaj to go to treatment. We're not happy about that. We helped, but we don't see responsibility in the reconstruction in health care. Is there any hope in this reconstructed exposé for parents whose children are entering the education system for the first time today, that at least she will live in a society where education is acquired and not bought, in which the effort is paid, and not underestimated? Our education system is today a generator for youth unemployment in Serbia. Is there any hope in that exposure for nearly 300,000 young unemployed people? We need an education system that will send those people to work, not the work desk, along with the economy. That's why we're looking for a policy reconstruction, not people. It is not enough that the minister of education will now be called Jovanovic, not Obradovic. There's no luck as long as there's one in charge of this government worth more than one student, student, graduate, scientist. There is no better future as long as priorities are better prisons, not better schools, because education is the essence, and the essence is with you on the sidelines. It's good that you brought a strong educated man back to the country, but how can we trust Lazar Krstic, when his future colleague, the minister of business, did not believe him, so those salves of insult he wrote about him, about his concept, had to erase him when you proposed him as minister? Then how can citizens believe in you when you don't believe in each other? How can they believe your messages about a better life? It will be better to live in Serbia when people and citizens feel it on their skin, not when you tell us about it from the front pages of the tabloid. This reconstruction is bad because it's the result of bad policy. Reconstruction can be good not when the result is bad, but when it is the cause of new policy. We don't have a new policy here, we only have new ministers. This government continues to be a purpose to itself until the next elections, and therefore we will not vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23155	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23156	That's not the reason. I got the word twice, sir. I'll stay. Ladies and gentlemen, none of us, any of Serbia's citizens, thought that you would vote for this government or any other government where you wouldn't sit, because the measure of any success in this country, the measure of all good in Serbia, is what your share in what your interest is. Where there is no political interest, your economic interest, there is no success and there is nothing good for Serbia. I think things are different. I think the citizens of Serbia are interested in the real progress of our country, not the hypocritical and reckless criticism of everything, in a semi-paid voice, with a saying - mirrors, mirrors, who is the most beautiful person in the world? You were talking about anger, sadness and laughter. I didn't notice anyone laughing or anyone being angry. I know that many are sad that they are not in power and that they cannot do what they have done for years and decades. I don't particularly care about that. I'll try again and again every time you tell the truth here to answer every lie absolutely peacefully, every word you say. As for the question of who the Prime Minister is, one would be who he isn't, and the other not to be who he is, I didn't understand that game of words, I didn't understand what you were going to say. I guess I'm not smart enough to understand that. You also said that it wasn't enough to take power, it was enough to take responsibility. And last time I told you, and it's important for the citizens of Serbia to know that – we took responsibility. Speaking of personal responsibility, I accept that kind of personal responsibility and for where I don't have it. Now I'm going to analyze everything you said. I didn't find myself in it, and I didn't see that I did any of those things, but I take it as my own responsibility and I don't run away from it. You said something lasts six months and it's been 2,000 hours. For me, it may have been 3,000 hours and that 3,000 hours of work I spent at work, not lying around, not traveling where I belong and where I don't belong, not doing something that's inappropriate, but fighting to do something for this country. It's a completely pointless remark, like someone was sitting here or somewhere else, talking all the time about reconstruction. That's not true, the reconstruction is the third day here. Today it's your third day, and your first day bothered you that it would be in one day. Whatever we do, it bothers you. The problem in our country is whatever we say, it's not good. When we say strangers come, it's good, but not to be strangers. When we say they're young and good experts, it's great when they're like that and it's great that someone else there gave him a passport as the most talented man in Serbia, but how can we trust him when someone else on Twitter says I don't know what? You'll never be well. Whatever we do, it's never going to be good, and that's why people in Serbia are trying to look at it completely objectively, very different from you. People are trying to say if this is really good for them and for our country, but it's not good for your party. It may not be good for your party, but it's good for Serbia, and I'm interested in it being good for Serbia, and that's where we differ. You say you're involved in intrigues and plots, so that's all you do. You said, you don't have to look around the reminders, they said that a little while ago, I'm just saying it, I'm reading it, I've written their words, I haven't said one of my own. All their words, and I answer. You say we treat human rights. What human rights? According to what human rights do we have bad relations? Which one? Who did we step on or break? A real national minority? What rights? Tell us openly so we know. You say, financially overindebted. The biggest responsibility, if they wanted to be fair and say there are colleagues from the RS, the biggest responsibility for the country's financial over-indebted debt is yours and will not be able to resolve it by 2015. That's what I'm telling you now. We hope that in 2015 we will be able to have a normal budget and a normal state in the country, and all because you've been in debt at 8.3% and 8.4% and now we hope to find the money up to 1.5% to be in debt for 20, 30 years so that we can return these interest rates to the most difficult of 8.3% and 8.5%, in order to save 200 to 300 million euros per year in the budget. Because of what you've been doing, you're telling us about financial over-indebtedness. None of our borrowings were anywhere near the loan of 8.3% as you were in charge but as you won't tell the people the truth. The problem is that other people don't know how painful this truth is for our country, so I'm sorry that sometimes I have to do it myself. You're talking about witch hunting, and you know what witch hunting is. The witch hunt is whenever anyone is mentioned to have anything to do with your client. I told you the only object that was unrealized from your time, the only one, and it concerns your officials because on the 100th page the state authorities are checking all the facts. We didn't want to believe right away because there are 14 criminal charges against a man and everything is packed. Then we said -- wait, check, maybe it was someone's attempt to say it was a political reckoning within one party, or I don't know what. What witch hunt? About what you were talking about about Azotara. Tell the citizens who are the objects of Azotara and Delreal? What is this subject where the witch hunt is? Tell me, I've brought all 24 items here in my bag, the cuts of my condition, to tell you what was done and how it was done, for every name but a witch hunt because it's the easiest thing to say. It's the easiest thing to say – that's what they're after politically. Serbian citizens should know no one in this country is being pursued or persecuted by any political attitude on the contrary, and no one is trying to do it in any way, the only thing we do is try to level politicians with all other citizens, not to be more important, more protected in front of other citizens. That's what we're different about. You say we don't want to keep our mouths shut since life starts where fear stops. Here, now I'm telling you I won't keep my mouth shut anymore because my life started the moment that Serbia stopped fearing you, when more judges don't judge by your orders, when the prosecutors don't press charges on your orders anymore. When in Serbia, as you are today, everyone is free to speak, everyone can say what they want, but what is known is what the competent state authorities will do in accordance with the law. What you're throwing at me is more about you than it is about me. About Anita Balash, I don't know what your role is in it, if you had one, I congratulate you and thank you for that, but I know who had it, not just on that case, but on all such cases. Despite the bad regulations and other sublaws of the previous time, he said a solution was made so that children could be treated abroad. I didn't accidentally say, despite the regulations and other sublaws from the previous period. You say, some who boast of better prisons, not better schools. We also invest in schools, invest in prisons because all civilized and normal countries do so, and those who think that prisons should look like books to us, Turkish signage or prisons in Salvador, and in Turkey they don't seem that way long ago, but that they should look like prisons in Salvador, I think that it violates human rights and that it doesn't understand what the present is, and what Serbia's future is. I think I've been through all the words you've said, and I've tried to answer them. I don't expect the government to be praised because someone from the political party I love is sitting or not, but to criticise the government, and that we haven't heard of any serious argument, such as the issue of employment in Serbia, from the dizzy growth of unemployment you invented, because we have a decline in unemployment, and according to all the statistics of both organisations dealing with this in our country. It's still hard and bad, until you say that everything is more expensive and that inflation is much bigger than in any previous period, so I told you exactly what inflation is. I was wrong, because it's up to 7.8% year-on-year, not 8.6%, and we're going to keep it at this year's, at about 5% level, which is 8% lower than in the previous year. Then I guess those arguments just don't stand up to you. It's our job to do something for our country. I think that for all of us in the National Assembly, there would be much more good and much better if we all had to deal with Serbia and really think about it, rather than dealing with party interests, and only by the way, to mention Serbia, and to hardly ever think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23157	Replica, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23158	To specific questions, concrete insults, but we're used to it. Do you know how many schools today the students started without textbooks, not without chalk, but without textbooks? So much for investing in education. For a year you've been in power, six months you've convinced us that this government is bad because SNS has ministers who can't run fast enough, because they can't jump high enough, and you're raising the ladder. No irony, when you said you'd bring in the experts, I thought you'd bring in Sergei Bupka and I'm not ironic. I asked a question specifically in which sphere in Serbia is better today. Then you're waving 180 charges and you're doing better than we are. Is that better in Serbia today? That's not the kind of thing someone should brag about. Personally, Mr. Wolfie, I don't trust you, but it's none of your business, maybe it's someone's business, but you're not consistent. You said we would not go to the government with Dacic, so you gave him the place of prime minister. That's right, you took it from him later. You said – 20,000 dinars per ha for farmers. How many do they have today? It's barely six thousand, so you pay them back last year. It is true that teams are working to arrest Saric. I believe they're doing just as well as they did while being run by a man who's now acting as DS. But it is inconsistencies in January, we will arrest him in June, and in June we will arrest him in September, and in September we will arrest him in December. That's inconsistencies. What's true is that you're running away from responsibility. You say the government is bad and then blame Alice Maric. You've shamed the world's best chess player the way you'll embarrass the world's greatest water polo player. For you people are only passing to keep the percentages steady. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23159	First of all, one thing doesn't change your dictionary of insult, I guess you've been practicing it on Mr. Gilas's orders, because the other thing you can't do, and I guess it's important that you say it with as much conviction as possible, so you'll get more credit for it. I haven't convinced you for six months that the government is bad, you're not telling the truth. Maybe another word would be more like it, but I'll never say it, don't tell the truth. Don't tell the truth. I'm saying that this government is good and much better than all your governments, but I'm saying it's not as good as I'd like it to be. I think it's not only legal, not only legitimate, but very good for our country, when you're raising your goals. If you respond to metaphors that you expected Sergei Bubpka to be an expert, I don't mind. Good idea, and we'll invite Sergei Bubpka to be an expert and help prepare our athletic team. They'll bring you medals and jump with a stick, I'm sure it's a great idea for Serbia. You say you came here to boast about the number of charges. Don't tell the truth. I'm here to answer your claims that there's not one incarceration from organized crime, so I'm telling you 180 charges. And then when I tell you that you have invented that there are zero indictments, there are 180 indictments with letters and numbers, confirmed, then you say, so you boast. No, I don't. But you said it and you made it up as zero, so I told you it was 180, then you don't know what you're gonna say anymore. You say subsidies for agriculture. We paid off all the subsidies for agriculture. We paid off all the subsidies for agriculture, 94% was paid up until the other day, I think today or tomorrow there's another 6% of subsidies to pay off. We paid off everything that was our obligations. You don't even know that. But it's easy to talk to someone, you'll probably say that stock market is going to cost 50 dinars, if it costs 26 or 28 dinars, like a sunflower today. It's not up to you or us, because in 2009, you were 16 dinars, and in 2008, you were 27 dinars. But it wasn't up to you, and no one criticized you for it. You're talking about Mr. Saric, and you say - continued investigation. How was the investigation continued today, the honourable MPs, when they told me the day before yesterday, that the investigation had been terminated? Did you all hear that? They said, "A closed investigation, now you say a continued investigation, is it terminated or is it continued?" Not only was it continued, Mr. Rakic worked. And as you can see for me, it's not hard, and in that we differ, I'm a political opponent, but to the people who worked, I always give credit. Yes, Mr. Rakic worked hard on the case. I'm not ashamed and I don't mind, my cheek is clean, and I'm proud to say that he did a good job. He's a resident, and there's a lot of work on it. Special teams from the country and abroad working on this case have been added, just to be directed. So we continue this work, and not only continue, I am convinced that the results will be, except that you are right about one thing – I said somewhere in January that they will be by June, and I was completely careless when I said it. That is why I am not speaking exact terms now, and I am convinced that soon the entire public in Serbia will be happy about it. In the end, you mentioned some percentages. I don't know what percentages you mean. I hope you weren't thinking about the percentages of certain jobs, because it seems to me to belong to someone else, but to the political percentages. I pay much less attention to the political percentages than those who every time they have a problem then they'll find a nice place to paint, to make it better and more successful than they are, to highlight their humanitarian activity whenever they have a political problem. I don't care about that. I'm interested in the outcome and the success of Serbia. I'm interested in being in a difficult place, where no one can or where no one will. I'm interested in doing difficult things, painful things for our country, but from which our children and future people in Serbia will be incomparably better. I'm not interested in any of the other percentages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23160	Mr. Stefanovic has the word. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23161	I have to say, there are a few things, since we are called as a party, to which I have to respond. I don't know if you can hear yourself, Mr. Wolfie. You say you don't interfere with the judiciary. You repeat that a few times. I don't even know if you hear what you're saying here in the O.R. I'll tell you right now, no one's instructing us to take anything out against you. That's what you're designing, Mr. Wolfie. That's what you're doing on your board. We're not doing it. No one can instruct us. What you're thinking from one center, and you're acting like limbs from one center, that's your problem, that's not how we work. Otherwise, agriculture has been reduced by more than 3 billion, but you are skillfully avoiding and changing the thesis, as it seems to me that you are not aware that in Serbia everything is more expensive, both gas and electricity, and all other possible items and that pensions and wages have been reduced by 5%. Then why are farmers complaining if it's like you said, why are they coming? Whether they're brought by DS, maybe to cause you trouble, no. It's saddest of all to me, when DS keeps trying to ask concrete questions in the language of arguments and to make some suggestions, I literally here, Mr. Wolf, stop at what second you're going to go back to the old, to what you really are. Sometimes it's 20 seconds, and sometimes 40, and sometimes 5 minutes, depends on how you're in the mood, and is it possible that you're not able to have a consistent performance from the beginning to the end, but to see four faces of Mr. Vukic, where the only argument you keep repeating is: everyone hates me, you're jealous, I'm consistent and I won't give up, I'm not afraid of you. No one has told you that he is afraid of you, for he is not afraid of you, nor are we jealous, nor hate you, and we repeat you 15 times, and you are persistent about it. Come on, seriously, let's talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23162	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23163	What you're saying every day about different faces, and you're trying to, I didn't understand exactly what, my face is, I guess, not particularly nice, I haven't even tried, and for the fact that in various forums you're playing the shape of my mouth or what, that's my father and mother's fault, and I accept it all. I'm polite, unlike you, I never raise my tone, I sit still and talk to you. I don't know what you can blame all that for. I'm not waving my hands, I'm not yelling, I haven't said a word. It seems to you old Wolf the second you think I should keep my mouth shut or your arguments, so I have to ask you to teach me, because I'm a law school graduate with the best grades, so I'd like you to tell me that I'm not getting involved in the judiciary. I'm talking about cases that are the jurisdiction of several services and the cross-section of the situation that is being analysed at the bureaus of the competent services. What's so controversial, what kind of illegal behavior is this, if I'm talking about the exact items that have come to any level, whether or not the charges have been filed, I'm not talking about. You don't even know what you'd hate to say. You know, in this country, it's getting worse, 11 percent has accumulated electricity, and in the first year of your reign alone, the electricity has accumulated 138 percent, only in the first year of your government has raised 138 percent, and now after five years, it's up to 11 percent, because you destroyed EPS, because you destroyed businesses, you destroyed them, you ate the substance, there were no missing liquid assets of 400 million. You say 4.5 percent is gas collection, and I'm still telling you that it's easy to analyze, if you look at inflation this year and last year, from two years ago. Are you living well? You don't live well, of course you don't live well. Do people live hard? They live hard. I ask you what it is that you suggest, that we boast that we have had the greatest duties you've put on our backs to repay our duties, which were smaller than the ones you've done. Where do we find the money? Dig 'em up, get 'em out of Mars? The investment is now, in six months, we have twice as much as in the entire previous year, and we are just expecting the biggest investments and we are just expecting the results of our work next year. Your biggest investment was selling "Maxia" to Dolezu and that's what brought us results in previous years. Nothing more, there was nowhere else. But it's important that you hold our sermons without trying anywhere. It is important that you disdain everything, if the sheik is going to be on us, so it will not be on us, it will be on the Germans and on the Japanese and on the sheik and on all our friends, because we want to work with everyone and build normal Serbia. If it's your way of speaking the language of personal insults, from projecting to multiple faces, to not knowing what everything, I think it's saying enough about you. You see, tomorrow, you do some humanitarian action to make you look more beautiful and smiling than that horrible Wolf, who must suffer everything he has to endure to suit you. Let me tell you something -- people in Serbia recognized who was doing and who was doing and who was doing what could and how you could cheat people in the previous period, how you were a genius, how everyone else was bad, that time went by. I ask you one more time: where are those zero indictments and where is that dizzy growth of unemployment? I remember you saying that, and all the official data says otherwise. I have to ask you now – and when will there be enough of the lies that you bring out and which, with ease, can I win here and show everyone what lies you have spoken without having any-excuse after that? When will you show some respect for the people who work? As you can see, I don't have that problem, and that's the difference between us and you, because people see that I am able to respect some of your ranks that do good work and not secretly, but publicly give them credit and you are simply unable to do so, because your vanity is greater than Monteverist and because your coming or survival in power is more important than Serbia's survival. It's not. Serbia is much more important and much bigger than the Democratic Party, it was and will be remembered.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23164	Mr. Stefanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23165	Mr. Vukicu is Serbia more important than any party and any individual, but Serbia is also a country that expects you to hear at least some three concrete measures what this government will do. We've been trying to hear it from you for days. Instead, we have here uninterrupted exposure, attacks on the opposition and your self-evaluation, which you repeat every day. How do you see yourself? Now you mention your face and mouth and everything that no one has mentioned alive here. No one mentioned it. Mr. Wolf, we were talking about your voicelifting, your insults, things that can't or can't be checked hard, that you're transferring DS. Not a moment has anyone looked back at what you're calling for. If it is much better in this country, how do you say that since 2004, for the first time this year, Serbia's credit rating has been reduced? Why? Because he has an ugly opposition and a fine authority. Is that your answer? You know what, 130 percent of the electricity went up, that's probably what you're thinking about in 2000 or 2001. What don't you say, I asked you nicely, Mr. Wolfie, don't let us go back into the past, it's very unfortunate for you, 130 percent of the price of electricity increased in your time, when you were in power. There was no power, the people didn't know what electricity was. I don't know where you see insults. Is it an insult when you talk to my fellow MP about the mirror in an inappropriate way and the president of the Assembly doesn't react? Like, I think that was offensive. Who told you any insults? I don't know what investments you're talking about in a situation where we all look forward to from the Arab Emirates, a country where a lot more of the nylon stockings than the "Fiyate" are exported when the components for importing the same "Fiyate" are rejected. Do you know that information about more stockings being exported than cars? What are we going to do now, lie to the opposition and insult? Don't just tell us that, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23166	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23167	I didn't understand this comment for "Fiat", you didn't read something or you didn't get it right. If you've spoken by the number of pieces, you're probably right, and as far as money goes, it's certainly far from true, but what do we do? I never, Mr. Stefanovic, said it was much better, I said it was a little better. I said that people have a hard time living, I repeat it 50 times, don't caricate things, I said it's a little better, I didn't raise my voice for one second, don't make it up. I haven't said one word of insult in a second. To hear Serbia's citizens, I will repeat - mirrors, mirrors who are the most beautiful in the world? Listen to me, don't tell me what you organize and what you don't organize. People from three daily newspapers tell me that from the same address, from the same computer from one political party come the most difficult possible insults, shame on me in front of the citizens to speak, concerning my physical appearance and everything else. Do you think I'm uninformed, that I don't know who's doing what? I know that, I know you well, I know you well, and because I know you well, I know how much happier Serbia is today than it was yesterday and I know how much happier Serbia will be tomorrow than it was yesterday. I don't mind that you do it, because everything you do, do to yourself and on the other hand, I haven't answered you for farmers who rebel. Unlike those of you who didn't want to receive them, except, I mean Mr Petrovic, and to talk to you, I talked to farmers today, with ordinary, honest people looking for something more for themselves. What are they looking for? The current minister, Mr. Knezevic, was present and future minister, Mr. Glamocic, was also me. I asked – do you have any objections to the state's work, at the expense of the state, we haven't paid off the subsidies, what is it that we haven't done? They said, "We don't." We've got a price on sunflowers. Our price of sunflowers is low on 24 dinars or 26 dinars, what is the last offer of oil. I said – what can the state of Serbia do here? We're not the ones who set the price, the citizens of Serbia and the others need to know, it's not the state that sets the price, that price goes to the market, sometimes it's 50 dinars, sometimes it's 10 dinars, sometimes it's 20, sometimes it's 30. They said, "We do not expect it from you; we expect if you can ask the oil people to increase the price for us as much as possible. I said we couldn't affect the margin of their profits, we couldn't interfere with market conditions, but if the margin of their earnings is great, we'd ask them if it's possible, as you did with the soy to meet you, and that was the whole conversation, that was our whole conversation, one honest, responsible and serious conversation where you can't promise towers and cities, to tell nice stories than what you can do, do it, what you can't do, don't do, and that's how responsible people behave. We'll see if by Thursday we can ask someone to raise the price to 28, 29, it would be significant and it would be good because the farmers' margin would be bigger than it is today, something the margin of oil would be smaller, but that's how we solve these problems. You're talking about a credit rating crash, he fell due to our country's over-indebted debt, and at one point we've reached the ceiling and there's nowhere else to go, we have nothing further to do, we're going to have to borrow until 2015 or 2016, and anyone who's in power to do that, because we killed this country in the last ten years or twelve, or twenty, whatever you want. We killed this country. As for the fact that there was no electricity, there was no electricity sometimes and somewhere during the war, that's true, just don't tell us that DS or that you, Mr. Stefanovic, or God forbid Mr. Gilas, became Nikola Tesla, so you invented electricity for Serbia, because nobody in Serbia would believe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23168	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23169	Thank you. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, the first Deputy Prime Minister, respected ministers and candidates for ministers, honourable fellow MPs, is now ahead of us to elect new members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be the final process of the government's reconstruction. In the past year, as long as we have heard the prime minister's exposés and voted on the current government of the Republic of Serbia, a lot of problems have been solved in the country and significant shifts have been made in many segments of our society. Certainly, what is most important and what I would mention here is to reach an agreement in Brussels, which will enable our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija to have a safer and more quality life, also opening accession negotiations with the EU, which will bring our country into a new phase of its history and, of course, a decisive fight against corruption that has come upon huge support, both our country's citizens and the praises that come from around the world for the great shifts that have been made in such a short period of time. This government has yet another great credit whose strength we will be able to value only in the time to come, which is the beginning of a change of consciousness. In fact, for the first time, we meet with practice within which passing times and the results of those who have worked well and those who have not. The reconstruction is the fruit of something completely new in Serbian politics, which apparently the presidents of the opposition are unable to understand properly. Of course, Serbian citizens understand that. The reconstruction is for the first time being carried out because it is the government's desire to achieve better results for our citizens in the future. The rule of verifying the results of the work is a rule introduced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself, which is certainly something that we all need, which we are all in public functions in our country, to ask ourselves what we have done in a year, whether we could have done better and to raise the scale a little higher each year and to try to skip it, because that is the only way that our results will be better, and better results must be the goal of each individual in this country, because this is the only way that the whole society feels better. Aleksandar Vukic recently said that the government must show the citizens that the principle of responsibility, exchangeability and respect for the people is much more important than party obedience and membership. Many parties, especially in the pre-election campaign, often like to mention the deparation and promise to implement it if they are in a position to come to power, and only the SNS at the highest office in the country has run for the people who are non-partisan, who are experts in the areas in which we propose them. So, besides Ivan Mrkic, who came to the post of foreign minister a year ago on the SNS proposal, today we have a new four ministers proposed by the SNS, who are neither officials nor party members. The expertise was the only criterion we ever had. Great dust rose over the possible arrival of Lazar Krstic as finance minister, so many reportedly criticized him, although he has not even entered the finance ministry yet, not that he has made a move that could be the subject of criticism. I could often hear that they resented him for being young and only 29 years old. I would remind you that Nikola Selakovic last year, when he came into office as justice minister, was exactly 29 years old, and today we can say that he was one of the most successful ministers in the past year. Even Nebojsa Stefanovic was resented for his youth, and he showed that his youth was in fact his advantage, and in no way in this year he raised the reputation of the National Assembly. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I am often in a position to meet with a number of MPs from abroad who come to visit our institutions. When I ask them what is the strongest impression they will bring from our country, I often hear that it is precisely a large number of young and educated people who are in high places in our country, the energy they carry with them. That is also why they believe that Serbia is truly changing in the most positive sense. On this occasion, I would like to express my regret that Svetlana Zivanovic was unable to accept the post of Minister of Agriculture, but not because I think Mr Dragan Glamocic is not a good choice. On the contrary, his résumé gives us confidence, and I wish him good luck in his work. The only reason I would give her an advantage, which is just as professional as Mr. Glamocic, is because she is a woman and I think it would be good if the Serbian government had more women. It's also the only grudge I have on the government's proposed composition. I know that Mr. Alexander Vukic is happy to run for high-ranking women in our country. He is happy to co-operate with women, to which we are witnessing all of the SNS MPs sitting here and I would not want Serbian citizens to have the wrong impression, because only two women will be ministers in the Serbian government. I'd like to wish all future ministers good luck. Their expertise and experience on the one hand, as well as expertise, youth and energy on the other hand, are needed in order to modernise our country, which is also the goal of this reconstructed government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23170	National MP Borislav Stefanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23171	Articles 27, 107 and 106. Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure have been broken because you did not give me the right to a replica in a situation where Mr. Vukic presented some really incorrect things and brought out things that were absolutely unverified, and then you took advantage of it and gave it to the next speaker, so that the speaker would give his very striking impression that every soldier and shepherd who plays in the flute loves Alexander Vukic. I don't think that's right because in this situation we had to get a chance to answer at least the dangerous thing that's been done in the Assembly, Mr Stefanovic, that one parliamentary party, not only is it criminal, but it organizes, watch out for this, and that's what the SNS people tell us – we organize people to send terrible and bad things about Mr Vukic's appearance in forums. Look, it's a very serious accusation. I'm telling you, if anyone did it, from whatever party it's from, it's for every conviction. Mr. Wolfie, we know each other, and you know that no one normal can approve of it, but it's another thing that controls it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23172	Please don't let us get any further into the controversy. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Then give me the right to the replica. I just want to point you to Article 104. Article 104 defines when the MP is given a replica. Paragraph 3 states: "The exercise of the rights set out in Article 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the Assembly." So after six replicas, which came from the ranks of your parliamentary group, I thought it was time to get back to the debate. We can't have replicas until tomorrow morning, because then I wouldn't be running the session and I'd let the session last indefinitely. I think we should get back to the agenda and we can talk during the agenda. You have enough registered speakers that can perform on the agenda. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23173	I presented one insufficiently verified data, and I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for this unverified information. In the meantime, I checked. I said the power went up by 138%. Unfortunately, that was partially accurate information. Electricity collected 138% at just one time in 2001. Electricity from 2001 to 2012 has accumulated, respected citizens of Serbia, exactly the exact information I received from the Ministry of Energy, 672.4%. During that period, electricity cost 672.4%. It is important that we use verifiable data, that the citizens of Serbia hear these data. As for the replica or not, you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, will make a decision on that. As far as shepherds and soldiers are concerned, it is nice that it has caused joy in your ranks, smiles and ridicules, I would only ask you, all of you who have mocked, to try in knowledge to compare yourself with Aleksandra Djurović, in knowledge and foreign languages, in knowledge in various social areas. That mockery only spoke more of you once more, not of Aleksandra Djurovic, who otherwise spoke excellently.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23174	The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23175	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to address you on behalf of the SVM and present our vision of the area of agriculture. At first, I should say, it's a good thing the future Minister of Agriculture is from Vojvodina. We believe that when we talk about agriculture, we should primarily think about Vojvodina, because 80% of the territory of the AP Vojvodina is arable agricultural land. The Duke's is the agricultural side of our country. We believe that future Agriculture Minister Mr. Glamočić, as a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, knows what is happening on the ground and knows what are the biggest problems of agricultural producers. What's for sure is, as Minister of Agriculture, they won't have an easy job. Mr. Glamocic, you've been the eighth minister in a row for the last 12 years. Unfortunately, every predecessor of yours has led a special agrarian policy. I'm sure it also affected that agriculture is currently in a difficult situation. The great drought last year, the collection of imputants in agriculture, the late payment of subsidies to agricultural producers, the low purchase price of cereals, the non-registration of agricultural machines, the future possible sale of land to foreigners, as our head of the parliamentary group, Mr Balint Pastor, spoke of, are currently the biggest problems in our agrarian. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the new Minister of Agriculture, should deal seriously with these issues. It is necessary to meet manufacturers and facilitate the production year. I believe the Minister of Agriculture must have excellent communication with agricultural producers, with agricultural associations and associations. Better co-operation with the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture and the Regional Agricultural Development Fund would be of paramount importance. Together we can do more, together we're better. It is in all of us's interest to preserve and protect our agriculture and to develop our agriculture as quickly as possible. Professor Glamočić, I urge you to provide, as future Minister of Agriculture, all agricultural producers with favourable short-term loans, with extremely small interest rates. The lack of this program is a major problem for manufacturers. As for the programme, or the work of this government, we believe that very important steps have been taken to improve the situation in agriculture. Most importantly, this government has provided a larger budget for agriculture, made it possible for all producers to subsidise through the adoption of the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act and it is important for future subsidies to be obtained by agricultural producers even earlier when they need the most funds. As my colleagues in our parliamentary group have said, the SVM will continue to be a constructive opposition. We are ready for co-operation in the Committee on Agriculture, as well as in all those issues that contribute to the improvement and progress of this key branch of economy. We will be there to support every good proposal, every good law, but we will also criticise all those measures that are not good for agricultural progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23176	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23177	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia needs everything today and needs it now. This sentence, this truth obliges us to all work very quickly, very efficiently and very precisely. It binds us all in both the Assembly and the Government, and we can only do it one way, and that's if we're a team. If we perform teamly, if we put together efforts, energy, experience, knowledge and youth. That's where the reconstruction came from. New ministers, for new results, for better results, for rapid progress, for richer and fairer Serbia. That's what we think, in the ruling coalition, and we think well of Serbia. But is that what the opposition is thinking? Do they think well of their country and people? Serbian citizens and viewers of this broadcast don't think so. I don't know if the opposition's MPs are following public opinion, do they follow reactions? Does the citizens of Serbia like this kind of delay, obstruction? Do they like it and believe it...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23178	Mrs. Obradovic, I must give you a warning. You said the opposition didn't want Serbia well. You can't say that. I give you a warning of exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23179	We can check it out. I said – does he think? I said does he think? I didn't make the right point, I was just wondering. (President): Continue, please. ) This attitude is caused by public reactions because they do not like this delay at all costs and this obstruction. Exporting incorrect data multiple times. I haven't heard a single quote of the source from which you present the data and numbers. But enough about the opposition. Most Serbian citizens think our country is on track. After a long time, the people in this country have hope of getting better, but they should have gone to curb corruption, in painful negotiations on Kosovo, in a exhausting marathon race to join the EU. All these big tasks we've taken over and we've made huge and positive shifts. The fact is that after a year of work, the government and Serbia have an incomparably better position than before. He is a respected member of the International Community. Serbian citizens recognize it all and respect it. Honestly, Serbia is having a really hard time living today. It's not easy, but all the beginnings and clearings are difficult and painful and even the best experts in the world can't help us unless we decide on cuts, reforms, painful reforms, but there's no progress without it. In the end, not least, the number of women in the reconstructed government. There's no answer to the question why only two women in the government. Since the level of consciousness in Serbia is obviously not at that height to find more women by some automation in the government, it is necessary to make certain changes to the laws that will provide 30% of women in the future in both the government and other decision-making places in Serbia. It was my duty to present that position as co-ordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network. The argument that there are not enough capable and professional women in Serbia does not stand. This is confirmed by women in economics, universities, political parties in NGOs. In the end, more than half of Serbia's citizens are women. You should think about it. As we could hear in the exposé, as much as we really are Europe will be here, in every Serbian village, in every head, and as a system of values and a set of laws of built institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23180	The word is made by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23181	Article 27. Rules of Procedure, President of the National Assembly. Although part of the opposition applauded here the punishment you gave to your MP, the impression remains very bitter. Just for the brutal punishment of Mark Jaksic that was before that. With this you have proved that there is your inner need to balance, as judge when judging Djokovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23182	Mr. Aligrudic, you are entering the line with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23183	Let me finish what I wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23184	I won't let you. Of course I won't let you. If I didn't let the others, I won't let you. You have no more rights than other MPs in this National Assembly. It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you interpret whether I had grounds to punish Maria Obradovic or not. It's the discretionary right of the president. That's something I did, but don't go back to Mark Jaksic now. It happened in the previous part of the session. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23185	That's not the problem. If I'm wrong, I won't be long anyway. The bottom line is that when a session of the National Assembly is held, no matter what happens, there must be a natural balance, not a cause for previous events. That is the essence of what you do. Because if a word hurts, not content, then when we talk about content, put an empty line in front of it, put whatever you want, patriotism, victory, whatever you like, and punish yourself and us. Take care of yourself next time. This was ridiculous. If you don't accept that this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's fine. I won't ask in voting day to vote on this. I just had to tell you. 32/1AL/MJ 17.50-18.00 Almost 900,000 children are going to primary and high school today, tens of thousands of students should do so soon. They all have parents. That's the key questions. In the prime minister's exposé, there is almost no word on what our education will be like. You, Mr. Jovanovic, you're telling me how far I've been able to figure out that you're going to be able to provide basic civilization conditions, suitable early in the 21st century, I hope I've quoted quite correctly. I'm afraid that at this point, it's not enough for any of the other issues that we're talking about here to solve without the start of a serious reform of education, and also for the judiciary not only in a valuable sense, but also in an organisational sense. The problems of our education are neither problems in 2000 nor 1990. They're civilization issues. The solutions that are mentioned here in part - also cannot be rewritten models from some other countries that have taken a step forward, two steps back in reform, etc. I see the Prime Minister has a need to say what the public might like at this point. Since there have been many objections that there are professors or teachers of private colleges in the government, he says his condition now was that he could not be a minister of education professor of private college. I don't understand that reason. We have a hundred objections to the current private colleges in Serbia, but I have many objections to the arrangement, how the state college works. So that distinity in itself doesn't mean much. If the Minister of Education can't be from a private university or can't be recommended by someone who's a vice president of a private university, whatever I think about the past of that person, then the problem is that some other ministers in the government are from private universities. I think some government ministers from private colleges are better than ministers from state colleges. Mr. Bacevic, for me, for the LDP is an extremely bad minister. He is, as far as I know, a professor of state college, a member of the University of Belgrade Council, so he has again managed to be practically the only or one of the rare results of his work in thirteen months of office actually to present there, I can't say even scandalously, more ridiculously, the idea of a channel that actually degraded both his position and what the government may have been doing in some other segments. All these other reforms that are spoken of have no meaning without a reform of education. Look today and you will see that there are very difficult competitions for enrolment in doctoral studies at Belgrade University, although it is among 400 on the Shanghai list. It's simply too slow the pace of change in our country, to enter in a year or two from 500 into 400. We don't have that kind of time. Another group of issues concerning public finances, the economy of employment. I think you're wrong, Mr. Vukic, when you insist so much on the fact that unemployment has been reduced to about 24%, that the goal you set as a short-term, to say the medium-term goal, as shared by the prime minister's candidate, or prime minister, is to keep it below 20%. You know, it says in the exposé that there will have to be a complete privatisation as the 179 social enterprises say in restructuring, and let's be fair in the minimum number of these companies will be carried out successful privatisation, a large part of them simply can't work anymore. People who are officially employed in them today will become and formally unemployed, and this will suddenly raise the rate, or number of unemployed in Serbia, through one wave. That's why I don't think it's good for you to promise such a great success in the short term, because then failure is actually going to be bigger. I have to react to that now, I was not allowed to do so by Mr. Stefanovic. Nowhere will this idea lead us, let's say Mr. Dacic said in every debate here with the opposition that a million jobs have been lost in Serbia since 2000, that a million people have lost their jobs. It's just not true. There were two million and 800,000 employees in Serbia in 2000. This would mean that in Serbia everyone who lived in it worked and that we might have imported a little more labour, and yet we all lived in that country, and there were many paper employees, but a small part of them worked with an average salary of a few dozen marks. To clarify the last question – will there be a rebalancing before the 2013 budget proposal and is the exposé announced a change in the tax on consumption and, above all, VAT and excise tax? It's in the exposé. Taxes are said to be imposed gradually, however, on the subject, i.e. on the issue of property tax, profit tax and to the extent necessary, on the application. The consumption tax, primarily VAT, but the excise duty is already beyond any sustainability limit in Serbia. It is at least a theoretical way of proposing what the prime minister proposes to discharge the work, and how to obtain compensation on the other side, but remember, the government already raised the VAT a while ago. That reduced VAT revenues. A new VAT increase, a new increase in excise duties would destroy the additional Serbian economy, and trade, or traffic, would completely push excise goods into the gray zone, further reducing revenues and jeopardising all functions of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23186	Mrs. Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23187	President-in-Office of the Assembly, Deputy Prime Minister, cabinet members, candidates for ministers and respected fellow MPs, today is the third day we have a debate on the reconstruction of the government. It's a good thing he went through that manner, to put it this way, obstructions of reconstruction, even though it's allowed in democratic systems and that we've moved on to some fundamental debate about what this reconstruction really means, individually for the opposition, and individually for MPs of the ruling majority. To conclude that today the first part of the reconstruction will be completed safely by the vote and that the ministers will be elected to the empty places of sport, culture, education, finance, business and many others, but it is important that the citizens of Serbia realize that this is only an announcement of the change that will be personified by the change, or new names of ministers in this government and that this is actually something more, and that this is actually the beginning of the process of political change within which those who have initiated the reconstruction of the government actually want to change the social priorities of our society, to change what is most difficult and what will be the most difficult task of all politicians in the government and to rule the majority, and that is to conflict with the mentality of our people, to change relations with social values that are completely or destroyed in Serbia in the last few decades. This reconstruction actually introduces new political principles, such as greater responsibility, which did not exist in the previous period, no matter how many opponents there are about this opinion. More openness is being introduced in the work and what is important and what has been placed by many strangers in the current discussion from opponents of the government's reconstruction, which is to introduce the confidentiality of the results of the work of the people in the leading positions in our country and here within the ever shorter deadlines. This is a year of government work. Six months will come soon when new results will take place, draw a line on what anyone has done in the reconstructed government, and they will reach a hundred days, to what is done in modern well-organised states, and that is to check the results of work every day. What is important to stress is that the reconstructed government does not need or require a hundred fair play days, and when looking for some space to do something new, we call on colleagues from the opposition and the whole public and citizens of Serbia to freely criticise and use this criticism to direct the work of the reconstructed government. It was also a question of why these ministers. Believe me, every single minister running and playing a game of other candidates, and not just those who are in front of you today, has made it clear what they will create in their mandate, what they will fight, what they will do, what changes they offer in Serbia, because for the success of each government, it is very important for each job to have a plan and to know exactly what someone wants to achieve. After the reconstruction of these fundamental principles of policy, we are followed by reconstruction of the economy, reconstruction of education, culture and society as a whole. What matters, which is extremely important, is that this government didn't have to go into reconstruction at all, because none of them asked. They did not seek Serbian citizens who, apparently according to research and in public opinion at all, were quite satisfied with the results of work for the first year and did not ask for opposition members, as they did not deal with such topics in their criticism. I can see that it bothers someone that the colloquial dictionary here is used when it is said that this government itself has raised the scale, a step further on some of the goals that must be achieved in Serbia in order for Serbia to become a modern state. I said, the first to achieve results quite enough for Serbian citizens not to seek reconstruction, but an exceptional satisfaction that there are politicians who want something more, they want further reform of this society, further change. I'm glad that the politicians who simply disrupted the crackdown on our political life that ruled Serbia, disrupted the manner in which Serbian citizens choose you one day, that you are then calm four years to some next election and that no one asks you anything about what you're going to do, what you've done and whether you intend to do your little, little goal, now raise that scale that causes pesorative comments here and do much more than that. I am glad that after the government's reconstruction, Serbia will compete with its environment in modernising Serbia which has obviously become very important or will achieve these goals that are set here or we are all aware that our country will collapse. That is not what anyone should look forward to and not have understanding, nor should colleagues be ashamed of when they mention those who are looking forward to failure in Serbia. Answering the question – why did the SNS propose non-party professional staff and why did it propose experts within the party? Of course, every party has very professional people. This is where science doctors and lawyers and doctors are in front of you. There was no question at all that anyone could take positions. If you think about it, if you want to think about it at all, simply send Serbia two important political messages by, let's get Lazar Krstic, as a personification of this strong political message, invited a young man from abroad to come to Serbia. What did she want to say? Surely, to tell those young people who left this country in 2000, they were educated at prestigious universities, that it was good to come to Serbia, that it was good to respond to the call, to take advantage of their knowledge, their education, for years I can't say, so much experience, but the experience in the work of large companies, and to bring us something new in Serbia, and that's a safe way of working in developed countries of Europe, the West, and it doesn't exist with us. To me, the message of calling Lazar Krstic is something much stronger. A message to young people that education means something to this country. It's a key message to me to invite people from abroad, young people of our origin to come. That education is important, we have told them that it is worth schooling and that in Serbia someone sees it, that these young people need someone and that it is a message to the new younger generations that they need this society. I expect two major reforms. Education reform in this country, just for these things. To be our role model, such as Finland, such as the Nordic countries where it is a privilege to be a teacher or professor, in which social criteria are, therefore, the social evaluation of professors and people in education, equal and lawyers, and doctors, but not to think only because of large incomes, but because of their education in those countries is extremely invested. Second, it is important that there is a privilege in these countries to be educated and educated. This should be a model in this country, not an easy and fast life, a life with combinations, as learned in the last, let's say, 13-15 years, but that education is something that is very important. We need to understand that this should be one of the most important things for us in reforming the state and modernization, because it's not a big deal for Barack Obama and Angela Merkel in their election campaigns to deal with these essential issues, because education is a very important and murderous tool for modernising every country in the 21st century. Changes in culture, of course. I want to tell Mr. Tasovac that if he has the courage to lift many relics of the past in this country, to bring the young back to museums, but not just one night, he will understand what I'm talking about, and to lift and introduce what. Essential changes are also expected in the public sector, public enterprises, we are expected in the economy, in the pension system. I think this country has had enough populism. It is good that modern politicians who are not afraid to look their problems right in the eye and start solving these problems have appeared for modern Serbia. That is why I call on all fellow MPs, no matter what political option they belong to, to vote for Serbia's reform and to vote for reformed new targets, and to help and participate in Serbia's modernisation, and the SNS will certainly support the government's reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23188	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23189	I thank all the MPs of the people, not only the SNS and other parties of the ruling coalition, but also the opposition who discusses here in a correct and reasoned manner. Now I'm going to give you some information. Mr. Guric, you're right, not a million people lost their jobs. These are precise data. So it's not nearly a million people. In 2001, we had 2,101,668 employees, and today we have 1,727,000, i.e. last year 1,727,048. As I understand it, there are two thousand more employees today, 1,729,531. So I just want to point out that the biggest drop was recorded, not counting the first two years, especially the first year between 2001 and 2002, over the last four years, from 2008 to 2012. In 2009, we lost 110,000 jobs, in 2010 96,000, in 2011 50,000 jobs, in 2012. Average year by year, in each of those four years, we lost 74,000 jobs. Why did I tell you this? Because it follows my answer to your question about restructuring 179 businesses and losing jobs. There are 58,700 people working here right now. It's our plan, if we can get it through, to get that kind of social aid from both the state and the state, only 6,000 people, so that more than 6,000 people aren't fired. Is that what we're gonna do? I agree it won't be easy, but it certainly won't cross 8,000. What's also important, I want to read you the exact, accurate data, there are some things that are good, not only that are bad. I'll also read those that are very bad. Industrial production in Serbia increased by as much as 12.5% in July 2012. The average of 2012 is 8.6% higher. Industrial production in January - July 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 increased by 5.4%. We've recorded this growth by sector, and I'll tell you where it's all going down. In the electricity supply sector, gas, air conditioning in the processing industry is growth of 11.2 in the mining sector of growth of 2.2%. There has been a growth in the production of capital products for 63.9, energy for 30.9, permanent products for general consumption of 6.8, intermediate products other than energy, by 1.1%. The decline was recorded in the production of non-permanent products for wide consumption for 6.5. Growth is recorded by sectors, observed in a total of 17 areas, and the decline is recorded in 11 areas. Participation in the structure of industrial production in these 17 sectors is 57% and in these 11% is 43% of the remaining. The biggest impact on growth, of course, was the production of motor vehicles and trailers, production of oil products, production of electricity, production of basic pharmaceutical products and preparations and production of chemicals and chemical products. As for the production of small businesses, it's one good symptom, one good signal that exists. So these are enterprises that have a number of employees below 50, which are not otherwise covered by regular statistical research, followed by a sample of selected units and sectors of the processing industry. When an assessment of the industrial production of small enterprises from the sample is included, industrial production in July 2013 compared to the average of 2012 is up by 8% in total industrial production if the processing industry is higher by 2%. I don't want to read the rest of the data now about parts of the territory where it goes well, where it goes worse or very badly. I'll also read to you what producer groups have experienced cheaping, which have had an increase, and by this citizens will see exactly who is telling the truth and who is not. In fact, as observed by the main product groups and services qualified according to the purpose of consumption, in July 2013 compared to previous months the price drop, not even from a much earlier period, but from the previous month, was recorded in groups of food and non-alcoholic beverages by as much as 4.2%, and clothes and footwear 0.4%, while the biggest price increase was recorded in groups of recreation and culture – 5.9%, alcoholic beverages and tobacco 3%, apartment, water, electricity, gas and other fuels, as well as communication. So, as you can see, the data seems to us, sometimes in different ways to interpret and it is important to analyze and interpret them, but it is important to present them in a precise and precise way to the citizens of Serbia. The situation isn't great, but the situation is far from desperate. We're desperate for public debt, as far as borrowing is concerned. There's already a desperate situation, but not the guilt of this government, not our fault. But if some people don't have that kind of need to say that there's some serious guilt of some previous governments, I can't help them. Anyway, I just wanted to tell you that, like you, we have big concerns for the level of unemployment in the coming period, but regardless of what's very important for the country to complete these structural reforms in these 179 enterprises, I'm sure we won't have an increase in unemployment. On the contrary, this is the government's most important task, to ensure and guarantee a decline in unemployment, even if they boast it was done by 1%. I'm sure we'll have success in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23190	The word is Mr. Djuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23191	In order for that to happen, it has to happen in the next year, a year and a half to boom in the private sector. You mentioned parts of the economy or parts of the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which is exclusively the private sector. That is why the problem for us is that we do not actually see a new discharge of this sector in these proposals or measures. The moment I spoke, I mentioned 179 social enterprises in restructuring, but we also have over 700 public and state-owned enterprises. Everyone in this country knows that there are serious excess workers in them, or, if you want, in other words, better words, a lack of productivity. The lack of productivity actually destroys this country and therefore the budget seems to be what it looks like, because out of this expensive economy, which so little works, produces or rejects profits in that part where profit even exists, we can't get those nearly 10 billion euros, as much as we need annually for this low level of public spending or the cost side of the budget. Speaking of the period after 2000, I have already said, and you know that so high employment in Serbia has been more fictitious than real by the end of 2000, i.e. until September or October 2000. And then it was said that at all costs we had to save jobs and we paid for it after 2000 and after 2008. I don't have a problem with that, though. We have also criticised the government from these positions since 2008 and the government that ruled in 2007, and before that LDP, even in this form, was not a parliamentary party. That's why it bothered me when you needed to quote specifically for 600 and some percent, for which it has accumulated electricity since 2000. There is the Minister of Energy, and I am sure he will agree that one of the reasons for the difficult situation in the electricity industry is still today, especially the catastrophic state that existed in 2000, 2001 and 2002, and that the price was unrealistically low and that it had actually completely or almost completely destroyed the system, and that, at least in the first few years after 2000, it seemed to me that the social-responsible cuts made the situation so sublime, never until the end, and then some other governments came and, I think, were very unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23192	The word is Anna Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23193	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers and candidates for future ministers, today we hope to finish the reconstruction story, which has been going on for 170 days and we can see that it is neither essential nor fundamental, but purely personal. Time will show what was the idea of this reconstruction. The united regions of Serbia have no reason to be disappointed. I think we've done well in the previous government, and in this debate, we haven't heard any fundamental objections to our work. On the contrary, we are proud of the work of our ministers in the past year. Susana Grubjesic made a major contribution to Serbia's European integration and when the government was formed last year, the presence of the URS was a sign that Serbia would move faster along the European path, as we are the only full members of the European People's Party. Earlier days in the debate, it could be heard that the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government was built according to Verice Kalanovic and the URS. We can't accept that. It's not made by her request and measure, but by those who today consider themselves second-class citizens. Equal regional development, essential decentralisation, strong cities and municipalities are the needs of all Serbia and all its citizens, not one man and one party. Serbia must develop evenly. All regions, all cities and municipalities must get their chance to move forward and that people living there from their work can live decently. Significant results have been made in this ministry, and I will only mention some of them. It is the end of the highway from Kragujevac to Batocina, the Moravia Corridor that is very important for that part of Serbia, because everyone knows today that investors come, build factories and create new jobs only where there are good roads. Novi Sad – Ruma highways, the first concrete steps have been made after a five-year empty story, and this project should contribute to making Vojvodina no longer an undeveloped part of Serbia. Significant results have also been achieved in the Ministry of Finance of the economy. Mr. Vukic mentioned them earlier, and he mentioned them in response to the discussions of an MP, but I will repeat them. Bankrupt has been avoided, small business business has been facilitated, zero tax-free tolerance has been introduced and unemployment growth has been halted. What is very important is that 60 investment projects have been launched that will contribute to the creation of 10,000 new jobs in the coming period. Is there anything more important for the citizens of Serbia? Just a few days ago, a cornerstone was established for a new factory in Doljevac, one of the poorest municipalities in Serbia, where the job will be obtained by 1,500 workers. Production has been launched in Smederjevska ironworks. That's another proof that for us workers are not just numbers and not just statistics. This also showed that we will not allow any city in Serbia to slowly shut down. We expect new investments on the Old Mountain soon, and this should contribute to an even greater development of eastern Serbia, and it is possible for people born there to live and to be able to live decently from their work. What Mr. Vukic did not mention, and it is significant that in July, while Mladjan Dinkic served as finance and business minister, a historic record monthly export of about 1.1 billion euros. No less important, precisely the merits of Mladjan Dinkic in the previous five years, today we can proudly say that Serbia today is not only exporting wheat and corn, or raw materials, but also cars, car components, modern household appliances. Of course, if this isn't enough and there's a lot more to be done to make the citizens feel better. So to the new government of Serbia, we from the URS, want success because it will be in Serbia's interest. We want a special success for the new finance minister because there will be a lot of challenges ahead of him. The united regions support the programme priorities he has put forward, to the soul through the media, because the programme he intends to implement has already been adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, on the very proposal by Mladjan Dinkic. We sincerely hope that they will have political support to set their goals and realise, because in order to be able to save, while at the same time investing in development and investment, to implement a fundamental reform of public enterprises, pension and health systems, to be accounted for by a massive administration, you must have serious political support. We hope that Mr. Lazar Krstic will not listen to stories - such as some grandmother in such a way can run finances, or suffer pressures from someone not paying taxes because he is a member of a political party. The United Regions of Serbia will lead a responsible national policy in the future, because we want good for our country. We don't want to be an opposition to our people. We will support all the good proposals that will lead to the accelerated European pathway of Serbia, the balanced regional development, the creation of favourable conditions for investment, and the creation of new jobs, but strongly attack problems and launch initiatives to resolve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23194	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23195	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I patiently listened to speeches from opposing benches for three days, and I was almost astounded by the amount of noise coming from the opposite side, I thought it was the victims of the transition. I thought it was about robbed people, not winners of transition and people who had been tolerated by the common heist. (President: Mr. Risticevic, please be very careful when you talk about it, and speak the terms that are appropriate in the National Assembly. That's one common robbery, and that's my impression. The country we found was completely abandoned. It was a land of lost chances for both present and future generations. There was almost no production in that country. Only imagination, illusion, and pre-election promises were produced. Economic policy was what I would say in the country. The economic policy "propalović", could have been colluded, - sleep peacefully, everything has been robbed. As the former regime was filled with vaccines for itself and for its neighbors, Serbia became a social case. In Serbia the hunger strike was no longer a protest phenomenon, but a universal phenomenon. The debt of the state, since 2001 and 2002, has increased the debt of the state of economy and the population, to be precise, has been increased by fantastic 35 billion. And, let me say, public debt, 17 billion 671 million to half last year. The debt of an economy of 20 billion and 209 million, I speak in euros. The population debt is five billion and 740 million. Totaled by half last year, 43 billion 610m euros. The finance fund in the economy was less than the financing of the debt in the economy. This year's interest-only state stands out 920 million, for public debt only. Next year, 1.2 billion. In total, we need four billion to service the public debt. In total, we need ten billion euros or one third of GDP for the debt of the economy, public debt and debt of the population. For the last ten years, 20% more than earned, six billion have been spent regularly. The entire social economy has been spent. And 35 to 40 billion euros in foreign exchange money from our diaspora has been spent. The debt problem is even bigger because there is no source to repay the debt. Today we are objected that we have not reformed those who have not done so for 12 years. The reforms they made were symbolic. Only state symbols, coat of arms, anthem and flag were changed. The country we found was a state where there were no more than three, up to four factory chimneys. They made a social case out of the state, and they made a party a millionaire. The president's a billionaire. From 2005 to 2011, a total of gross revenues of $937 million was made, but the capital that runs the city went down 500 million. Mr. Vukic is wrong, the Belgrade Prize in Dublin did not cost 11,000 euros, cost 18,300. Eleven thousand euros took part, and seven thousand and three hundred were paid to produce a luxury prize that was handed to the mayor, the party's president, as the best manager. The agricultural policy they ran was driven for the benefit of the processors, not the manufacturer. The biggest processor was the financial director of their party known for its nine-euro capital. On nine euros a year, it makes 50m euros a year, so I wonder where it can go with nine euros, the future minister will be able to answer me in a few days, to make a profit of 50m euros. That can't even happen on the lottery. Maybe he can go to the lottery in America. They had a farm policy, an affair of aflatoxin, an affair of fertilizer subsidies, an affair of subsidies to friends of their party, vineyards they don't have, a gulf system they don't have, for all of them, huge subsidies were paid, and these so far, these bay systems are gone. The flood during their rule was the only water system in Serbia. The grey economy has reached 30% of the total economy and has become unfair competition. Now imagine 400,000 jobs lost because of the 800 and a few thousand employees in the industry fell to three hundred thousand, but therefore the number of employees in the public sector increased. Imagine 400,000 jobs lost, if that were now found in the industry, that would have been more GDP by 10 billion and pensions would have increased by 20%. Behind the party of the former regime, where Saric was their best investor, and he could not bring in the money they brought out, the factory workers stand, and the threat of lustrating peasants from the fields. Everyone behind them is hungry, barefoot and naked, because they didn't have any money to buy. People saw the bread three times before they bought it, the misery and poverty of our people was unbearable to see. The government wasn't fighting poverty. It was fighting the poor. The state didn't stop crime, but the crime contained the state. The government that came behind this has an almost impossible mission. Since everyone's calling for sayings, I'll call Thomas Man. He said: courage is not a lack of fear, but an act in spite of it. That's why I think this government is extremely brave. He also told the gentleman – everything for the country, and for the government as much as he deserved. I will vote for this government as long as it deserves, but I ask them to put three points. The point of robbery, the point of misery, the point of shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23196	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23197	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Representatives of the Government, Mr Stefanovic, seems to be a injured member of the 107th position of the National Assembly. Please calm the MPs of the SNS, because this really doesn't look like anything. The speaker has repeatedly insulted the DS, insulted its president, talked about the investments of Darko Saric, spoke of a wealthy billionaire to the DS, please have the same arches as you have for Mark Jaksic and other MPs of the opposition, when you give them warnings, you must have such arches for Mr Ristic as well. To court him and explain to him that I can't always transfer my failures to another. By 2000, it was the NATO Pact, the EU, the global conspiracy, today it was the DS and the rest of the opposition. I'm sorry, but Serbian citizens see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23198	Janko Veselinović according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23199	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member of Rules of Procedure 106. I was truly convinced by the chairman that his personal experience of democracy was a previous SNS speaker that it was indeed just his experience of democracy. It means muddling and rolling in the mud of political opponents. That's what I meant until today. Until you chair the session and you have a man sitting in front of you who is the party's president, the largest party in the SNS, in whose parliamentary group is Mr. Risticevic. Is that the chairman, is that Mr. Wolfie, speaking through his tongue by the SNS? Is today the subject of the previous Government 2008, 2012, or is today clear on the agenda of the election of the new Government and the swearing of an oath? Did one word from a fellow SNS MP mention the government we're talking about and who needs to take an oath? Or by bringing out lies, insults, slanders, he spoke of the previous government in one way that you had to break up and restore dignity to this National Assembly. How do you think MPs of the opposition party behave if MPs of the ruling party behave in this way? I think that, the chairman, you had to give Mr. Ristic's notice, primarily because of the debate and the topic that was on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23200	Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23201	I want to answer to some MPs, Mr. Marjan Risticevic is not a member of the SNS, he is part of the SNS MP's club, if you can't shout and don't throw, you don't cry and I don't know what else you're doing, as God please. I speak so quietly and so carefully and choose words and don't throw anything at every spoken word because it doesn't make any sense. I've been here to listen to you all day. I've been trying to answer all day. I'm responding to numbers, I'm responding to facts, I haven't heard any of your numbers. It turns out that many of you have made it up, shown how much you haven't been telling the truth, let go, please, just let me answer you, if you've asked for the answer. If all you had to do was say again about some insults, and I don't know what, say what, so just say, it should have responded to the mention of Saric, what would he have to say about Saric? You brought Charic into the topic. You have brought Saric into the topic here and to us, setting up and saying that the investigation against Saric has been terminated. It wasn't Marjan Risticevic who introduced it, it was you. It was fine then, and it was fine, and I told you that you made it up, that the investigation not only was going on, but it was strengthened, that we were working together with all the services from around the world and the American and some other services, doing everything we could to make the best results. Since it was not a problem at the time that you did so much damage to the state of Serbia by saying that an investigation against one of the most radical criminals on the planet was interrupted, it was not a problem and it was not a warning, but it was a reminder when Marjan Risticevic mentioned it. What's with the arches? What kind of measurement is that? When you like something, you can say whatever you want, and when you don't like something, then you can't hear anything. Do you want to repeat once again that I haven't responded to you specifically, so I can read one more of these data, to show you how many lies you've made today and about the prices of food, electricity and everything else. Just to show the citizens of Serbia how you treat them in an unserious way. Is Marjan Risticevic in everything, would I agree with him? Well, I wouldn't, and I don't have to. A man has the right to his own opinion and has rarely expressed it against both our ministers and others. But as for the essence of what he was saying today, not in the words he chose, I am absolutely in agreement with everything he said. I really think that the damage you have done to the state of Serbia is immeasurable and it is not a subject, so I was telling you about the results of this government and the progress that we have made in the various spheres of social life, and in some, of course, we are not, which is bad and what we will try to change in the next period. I'm just asking you to remember what you said to Mr. Risticevic was saying and some numbers, he denied me, I don't know if he's right or I'm right, you can say it's not 11,000 or 18,000, but it's 15,000 or not that much, so say it. We don't have a problem with that, and nobody has a problem with that. What's offensive? The question arises – is it true or not true? What's offensive? Is that an ugly, rude word? I don't think so, and I don't think that now that we're all supposed to be protected like sacred cows, no one can say anything to anyone. Well, you can, you're saying things. Some people say what they think they should say. It's okay. Citizens are here to assess who has better and more serious arguments. I don't see anything wrong with that, and as far as I'm concerned, it's only important for me to tell you one more piece of information. That in the period from 2008 to 2012, the National Bank, above all for paying and maintaining the course, was drawn 3.46 billion euros, and that the course could not be stabilised, and that in this year it was 69 percent less spent, for maintaining the course, as we can see, the course is incomparably more stable than it was in the previous 4 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23202	Replica, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23203	I was just about to hear if Mr. Vukic was behind Mr. Risticevic's speech, we finally heard that he did. If you think Mr. Ristic's dictionary, which he said Mr. Saric, if we can say so, was the only investor in the Republic of Serbia during our term, when people from the DS sacrificed their lives, risked fighting that largest drug lord in the Balkans, then he was the biggest investor in the Republic of Serbia and we are responsible for that. Mr. Vukicu, I don't think that this is how trust is built between the two largest parliamentary parties in Serbia. I believe that we have been a very correct partner so far, that we have voted in favour of the good part of the law that you have passed here in the Assembly, and that Serbia can do better, going beyond the insults we have often heard from Marjan Risticevic and similar to him and whenever it was in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I think you further destroyed that trust, when you said you were behind what Mr. Marjan Risticevic said in principle, and in particular, not to enter. I believe that this is not correct and that the DS did not deserve to be the subject of today's very incorrect relationship between the SNS MPs, or a member of the Parliament club, who are trying to return to the agenda, of course, by taking the right to criticise the government as MPs of the opposition, but do not consider it an expression of any hatred. I just want you to let the MPs of the DS deliver their opinion, and whenever it is an insult or a demeanor to give them a warning, but also to the MPs of the SNS Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23204	I don't remember saying today to any member of the DS any disciplinary measure. So I can't agree with that. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23205	So, I'll just take a minute. I think our relationship with you is very correct, very rarely more than that, absolutely civilized and completely decent. On the other hand, I'm not going to talk about what your relationship is to us, the citizens of Serbia know and see it. We are not doing this because we need your help and support in anything, but because we think it is important for Serbia. Because we think it's important to respect the differences, because we think it's important that people can always and in any way express a different opinion, but since you've already talked about Sharic, it's true, some have been developing business at the time, but it didn't apply to DS and it's not DS, or at least I didn't understand, if I did, then I disagree with that part. There was one man who took a huge risk leading the campaign against Mr. Saric. It's about Mr. Rakic. The rest of them, they didn't take any chances. Some are at a local level, and I don't think it's a party thing, first of all I think it's a matter of human weakness, working with them. Probably, if they were in power and some of the SNS and some of the other political parties. People are corrupt goods and should not be defined in such a way as to be so because they belong to one or another political organization. Do not take credit for yourself that does not belong to political organizations but perhaps to one man. And I just told you, I remind you once again, that you have introduced this topic, unfortunately, I'm not sure that this topic suits you. And I know what political frustrations sometimes mean by nothing, not thinking, because I was someone who was not rarely 10 years ago and 15 years ago, and nervously stepped out and stepped off with insufficient arguments. And as you can see, it's not hard for me to say as well as this a little bit before the work of some of your people. And to you, it's hard for you to tell about the figures I've put out that they're correct. Because apparently the Republic Statistics Bureau is falsifying something. It's hard for you to say for every success, or somewhere you have to say it's a failure. That's how I can't talk. I'm not fit to understand that kind of message. And I don't think Serbian citizens can understand that. We don't have a problem with everyone showing dissatisfaction, but our goal was to make a government that was better than any previous one, and it seems to me that from those who ruled Serbia for 20 or 25 years, as long as you want, it's not always easy not to be better. Which doesn't mean that our goal doesn't have to be much higher, much stronger set, both Serbian citizens and that kind of combatability and that kind of responsibility recognise. In the end, what I think is important to people is the thing that I want to point out, another detail, the coverage of imports by export is 69.7% for the first time in Serbian modern history and is greater than the coverage in the same period of the previous year when it was 57.8%. I think it's one good news, I think it's one important news, and it seems to me that when you have exports of goods expressed in euro in an increase of 24% compared to the same period of the previous year, I think it's a result that we can praise at the same time, in order to be clear trends, imports of goods worth eight billion 730 million are more by 2.9% compared to the same period last year. I think that such trends are something that is good in Serbia and I hope that we will succeed in defeating all the bad things that we are facing today, and the most difficult thing of all of us is the level of debt, unstructured public enterprises, a huge number of employees in the state administration, and if we manage to win that, I'm sure Serbia will be an economical one of the strongest countries in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23206	Thank you. The word is Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23207	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we started this discussion last Monday, we talked about the Ministry Act and the opposition showed that the law did not justify the campaign and the propaganda that was done for six months in connection with the reconstruction of the government. Even less is the case with the opening letter or the exposé of the Prime Minister, which has in this second part, as well as the other document, which are political and professional biographies of new candidates for the government. As for the exposé, it is full of phrases, full of empty repetitions, full of ambiguity, not counting on that one passage that the speakers often called on, where the figures are mentioned. Of the four assumptions or the key assumptions, we're talking about the universal minimum of social protection, which is completely unclear, what is the universal minimum of social protection? It's about consolidated public finances, which is clear what it is, but you don't talk about how. Then it is said of the third, of corporateisation of the economy, i.e. treat the state as its own. Who understands this? The fourth assumption should have a meaningful regulation, i.e. that and only what makes sense. Please, this is unserious, but well, what a referendum, that's how politics will be compared to the policy of the previous year was the same as the previous exposé. When it comes to the second document, maybe he's even more interesting. Namely, this is about, as I said, the biography of candidates for the government. These résumés do not promise much, and they themselves do not justify the latter campaign, which was conducted in connection with the name, therefore, of the persons who should take over these functions. First of all, when it comes to short, I don't have time for Mr. Krstic's biography, which now carries the burden of justifying what was promised, it's good for McKinzie or perhaps for some of the jobs he's been doing, but for the jobs of the finance minister is not good. It's just that this biography doesn't show that he was in public finance at all, and that's going to be his portfolio. So it's not about his expertise on something, but for this we don't see that he has experience and expertise in it. Again, when it comes to the Minister of Economy, these two ministries that emerged from the former United Ministry, we do not see from that biography that he was a macro-economicist, and he should be a minister of economy. So, I'm not questioning the biography, I'm just questioning what the biography says, is it appropriate what he's supposed to do. Other biographies share one common feature. Either it's about people who have expertise because they have no political experience and, in particular, experience in the state administration or vice versa, they have political experience, but they have no expertise, except in one case, I won't mention it, but there is one case where I think there is a good combination of expertise and experience, which is the main feature of a good minister, a minister who will be able to deal with problems that has both expertise and experience. There's no such thing as individual biography, except in one case. One example is particularly important for what I'm talking about, and this is the new post of Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration that you are introducing. In fact, this is important because European integrations are the badges of your government and that is the most important thing about which you perform this function of government. In fact, there is a parole that is even once spoken here, that without the EU there is no life, but look at the political and professional biography of a man who is to run these affairs at the post of Deputy Prime Minister. Not a single reference in the field of European integration, except for membership in the committees on European integration, but in the last three mandates he has done or two, I cannot remember correctly, there were at least 30 to 40 people in it. That's not a reference, but I'm not saying that because of Mr. Ruzic who's going to take the job, I'm talking about one general feature. I have no doubt Mr. Ruzic will manage in this business. It's simple, the main feature of his political biography is his accomplishment. I have no doubt that other ministers, candidates, will manage their jobs, because this will be one policy of compliance, and that means one general improvisation. Why? Because you have no concept, no strategy, no stalking team. So that's not the problem. The government's going to melt somehow. It will be done, as we say, but the tasks ahead of this government are very large, above all in the field of European integration. It is not only a question of how to approach the work that the EU requires Serbia, but of how to deal with the conditions, with EU blackmail. There's a fake connection. So there's one request that this government can't meet. It cannot resist some European integration policies towards Serbia, the EU towards Serbia, which have nothing to do with whether Serbia will be or not in the future, or whether it will meet these conditions, which is, as you know, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. The European Union is only interested in whether Serbia will extradite Kosovo and Metohija, and this government is doing so now. So, when it comes to data, about this selection of data, positive, which Mr. Vukic has now said, they can triple by November of the month, which is, of course, impossible, but also to triple, the EU will not move for Serbia unless it holds those elections on November 3rd. That's what this is about. So, gentlemen, you can do your jobs correctly or less correctly, well or less well. Simply, these resolutions of yours, in relation to this big problem, which, don't get me wrong, would call the resolutions, in fact, in the context of a single EU policy, which is primarily for Serbia. So, the Union is not concerned whether Serbia is really going to advance or not in meeting these conditions. I have two information for you, Mr. Wolfie. First, Serbia will really be the first next EU member state. I agree with this assessment by the French Minister for European Affairs today, but the other news is bad. The European Union will no longer expand. There's a problem. You can't act like we're going to enter in two, three years from now based on our enthusiasm or on the state of government and administration, etc. There's the biggest problem and I don't see a solution. We can turn around as some flies around a warm lamp or butterflies around the EU, but you must understand that there is nothing of it and that we are actually serving them for one political thing or geopolitically, if you will, to surrender Kosovo. Finally, to conclude only by doing whatever you do, gentlemen future ministers, you must know that in history you will remain known or you will be recorded within the framework of a government that will have a historical echo. You will work in a government that will hand Kosovo over to Albanians and that is what it determines, in some historical sense and in a concrete sense, your engagement in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23208	Thank you. The word is from Vice President Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23209	As for this -- handing Kosovo over to the Albanians and for which we will be remembered, history will also judge someone in 50 or 100 years. It certainly won't be you or me, Mr. Samardzic. There may be a different vision of people who appreciate our participation in the political scene. As for the surrender of Kosovo to Albanians, Kosovo and Metohija today, 92% of Albanians belonging to the Republic of Serbia live under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Is that what any of these ministers are responsible for? Is that what any of us are to blame for? I wouldn't say that. From the Prizren League, through all our failures, severe political failures, wrong political evaluations. So, how did we get here? Because it's what one of us wanted? Are you saying that one of us wants, instead of Serbia, to belong to some great Albania or do I not know who? I don't think anyone in Serbia believes it, except, unlike some, it doesn't occur to me that we're covering up the real situation and the real situation in Kosovo and Metohija. We have most of the population north of Ibra in four municipalities – Zvečana, Zubin Potok, Leposavic and Kosovo Mitrovica, Northern Mitrovica. We have a majority still in six municipalities south of Ibra and these are the municipalities that we've made in such a way that we have a majority. In the old system, we wouldn't have one. In the districts that we've done since Titus's period, there's not a single district where we have a majority as a population, not even this North-Kosovo, because there were seven municipalities in that North-Kosovo area, so I'm asking if this government is guilty or someone else's fault? As for someone's intentions, we do what we think is best for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, because I think both people in Kosovo and Metohija understand the reality well. It is not an independent Kosovo reality, but reality is a difficult situation for our people, and that is why we are trying to find the best solutions for it. I don't want to get into what some international organizations are up to. I know them, some things, not weaker than you, if for nothing, because of the experience we have both in Brussels and in many other places. If someone thinks that these conversations are easy or that anything is simple, it's not. It is not easy for us, not because of Albanians, but because of EU representatives. Do you think it's hard for me to say that in front of you? Well, not at all. That's a fact. Well, what do we do with what's the fact? Will tomorrow, if we say – behold, you Europeans blame us for everything or anyone else, someone will benefit from that in Serbia? Is someone gonna get better? Will someone live easier, live simpler, live differently than today? Shall we change those limits? Will we have greater military power, political power, any kind of power? What we differ in is not an assessment of the current situation, but an assessment of the situation in the future and the path Serbia should go. We in the Serbian government think we can be the next member of the EU and think it will happen. It is a question now to assess whether you think the EU will disappear. Whether or not he will, I don't think he will. I think the EU is much stronger than many think. It's not an idea in five days or five years. She has had her crises, but it has existed since the formation of the European Economic Community, so, of three, five, and further countries, which wanted a single market, without customs barriers and greater economic co-operation. For us, Europe is not a matter of life and death. We would live without Europe, as you can live without who and anyone can without you, but the bottom line is that I think Serbia can live in Europe better than outside Europe. When I talk about Europe, I'm talking about political Europe, not geography. That's what we can look at differently. I think I have so much data and not factory or selectively extracted, as you said, because I also pulled negative data. That's why I told you that 17.12 was in sectors where growth and decline were recorded, and I didn't have to bring that up at all. I've been reading everything literally, as it's written. So, since we have that data, then I know what it is that we can expect to get into Europe what it is that we can get, and what it is that we can all lose if it doesn't happen. You said the government was going to melt. The government won't melt. Many governments have been plowing, many governments have watched as they pass another day. People would come to work at 09.00, read the paper, make a press conference, and already at 13.00, they'd be in a coffee shop or somewhere making a combination or a business for themselves. It's not a characteristic of either these ministers or these governments. Our will and our desire is to do much more, to work incomparably harder and to move Serbia every day. As for blackmail, blackmailing whether they exist, so unequivocally they exist. I can't call them blackmail, pressure, maybe it's better, maybe it's even a harder word. There are. There are every day. Are we going to burden the citizens, tell them we're under a lot of pressure every day? For every little thing in Kosovo and Metohija. Well, yeah, you're right. Do countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence want it to be so? Of course they do. That's why they confessed to him. We didn't find any hot water by that. Are we trying to stand up to it from the heel vessels, so we try not to violate Serbia's interests in all other areas of social life? To think about children who are yet to be born and those who are now born and those who are now going to school. We may see in different ways, but I don't see liability in our behavior. As for Mr. Ruzic and the head of the negotiating team, those who need to talk to the European Union, whoever we place anywhere, I have already found that there is one good solution, I think there are many more. I'm afraid in the criticism of many parties we'd always get to it if nothing was good. When we put one person in the same area who has no experience so much in politics, there is someone, but not so direct, like Mr. Ružić, it is about Mrs. Miscevic, for one is good, for the other is not. When you set up Mr. Ruzic, who has experience in politics and has not been so concerned with the European Union, although he is here on the assembly boards, he has so much experience from Strasbourg and from many other places, which is not the European Union, but the Council of Europe, but has experience in these jobs, so that's not good either. I think they will do their job well, I am convinced they will be committed, I expect Mrs Miscevic, and I did not have any kind of political affection for her, and on my proposal she was chosen after consulting with President Nikolic and Prime Minister Dacic, because I thought that this was the best solution in Serbia at the moment. I think it also shows how much responsibility we have for our country. This shows that what we think is much more important is what we think Serbia will look like the next day than what it will do to suit our party, political interests and how and to which we will protect them. I just want to tell you, Mr Samardzic, I believe that you worry about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, but I guarantee you that we do not worry less, or we certainly don't care less, and I would never say that we care or take care of it more than anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23210	Thank you. Free Samardzic, replica or according to the Rules of Procedure? Then first Mr. Zoran Radovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23211	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice President and members of the Government's announcement, member 107, was injured where my predecessor spoke, giving estimates concerning the private lives of others. First of all, I would just like to remind myself that there were principles relating to... I'm talking about Branko Ruzic, or ministers and ministers, as you called. These principles concern the Kosovo and Metohija issue, you have received an answer just from the vice president. European integration was the second principle of government in 2004, co-operation with The Hague tribunal when 18 people voluntarily went to The Hague. They volunteered to The Hague, and you're talking about blackmail, social policy, economics, etc. I think it is very incorrect and that the public should know that what is said is not good because this same government has signed a Partnership for Peace, which everyone in Europe calls the lobby of the NATO Pact, and you here call this government to do what is wrong. The government has surpassed the previous government, because in the previous government, Mr Jovanovic, who is sitting with me here, as Vice-President for Eurointegration, has failed to sign the paper. This Serbian government will introduce Serbia to Europe and introduce it safely into Europe, and do not worry about the resolutions and the quality of the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23212	The word of the messenger of the people is John Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23213	Member of the 27th Chairman, please apply the Rules of Procedure as defined. If someone is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it should indicate where you have injured the Rules of Procedure, not that it abuses it, which we have witnessed for the past two days, that the Rules of Procedure is being misused to bring replicas here and space has been used to send political messages. If that's what we're gonna do, then we're all gonna do it, and then we're gonna see where this session ends. We abstained from participation in the abuses of the Rules of Procedure for two days, waiting for this moment for us to make political peace with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think we were very correct as a parliamentary group. We didn't participate in obstructions, we didn't abuse the Rules of Procedure, we waited our turn, and now we have to put up with this. That the Rules of Procedure was abused and that those who supported the same government to honor it, why they supported it at that time. Please, Mr. Chairman, strictly applying the Rules of Procedure to bring this session to an end, otherwise we too will be forced to protect ourselves and in the extreme line to refuse any attacks on the abuses of the Rules of Procedure, applying the same possibility that we have abstained from the previous two days very correctly, waiting to highlight our differences in relation to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23214	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23215	Mr. Wolf, I wasn't talking about political desires. You were talking about it. I don't care about that at all. What kind of political desires are they? It's his private business. I'm interested in what anyone does in public policy, what they do in public. Your government has established an agreement on Belgrade and Pristina, on their mutual and neighbourly relations, has adopted a plan to implement the agreement. Both documents say that the institutions of Serbia in Kosovo will move to Kosovo's jurisdiction because everything will be done in accordance with the constitution and Kosovo law. Finally, these elections are being held following the decision of the president of Kosovo or the president of Kosovo, and as I said a few hours ago, our entire state administration has insisted on the job to make the decision happen. It's all very strange and it's facts. So you can't want it as much as you want, suffer intimately for it, I don't know what to do, apologize, but you do it. You see, it's about the part of Kosovo where 96% of Serbs live. You said that 92% of Albanians live in Kosovo, so it turns out that the fact does not matter, where Serbia's institutions, local self-government and other institutions are in Serbia's full governing government. That's the facts. You're handing it over to these choices. I'm not saying you've already done that, I'm just saying that you've taken nine steps and that you're quite likely to pull the tenth. I'm not predicting anything without a basis. As far as the EU is concerned, one thing must be considered. The European Union is in a major crisis, it delays many things, most of all this process of joining Western Balkan countries. Without a certain membership, and no membership, Mr. Vukic, you have to admit, the entire SAA is at stake, because it was designed for a certain time by meeting the conditions and coming to membership. There's nothing without membership.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23216	Thank you. The word is made by Vice President Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23217	I didn't speak here of suffering, or apology, nor apologize to anyone for what we did. We worked in the best interests of our people. I had no problem, Mr Samardzic, when many did not dare, almost no one wanted me to go to both Kosovo Mitrovica and Leposavic, to the north of KIM where I have been, countless times, to say both heavy and unpleasant things in the face of people who represent our people. I don't mind hearing any hard words or whistles. I still think it's best for Serbia. Not because it is ideal, not because Serbia will be particularly happy about it, but given the whole of the country, given if you want our interests on KIM, it was the best possible thing. That's why I neither suffer nor apologize to anyone. On the other hand, as far as political desires are concerned, I don't think people who don't have political desires can even achieve serious political goals. I have both wishes and dreams, but I see that at least part of those wishes that we have and that Serbian citizens have to make them come true. I just need to point out a few things that are false. You said the Brussels Agreement was about good neighbourly relations. There's no mention of good neighbourly relations. It is mentioned in some other papers that are not valid for our country. Is that ever going to be a condition, no one mentioned, nor did anyone say, except at seven points the MPs of CDU and CSU who moved them here? Therefore, there is no point in the Brussels Agreement and it is important that Serbian citizens receive accurate information. As for all institutions that will be abolished and all will belong to an independent state of Kosovo, it is not true, except that part of Serbia's institutions will move to a part of the Serb municipalities, I am talking first of all about these four northern Kosovo municipalities, of course, and the other 600 municipalities south of the Ibar River. So, of course, things aren't easy, of course things aren't simple. But I don't think they're so cataclysmic and I don't think we have the kind of problems you wanted to introduce them. Finally, as far as the EU is concerned, I care much more about Serbia than about the EU, but I would like to see us in the meantime, before we know whether the EU will survive or not, and I think it will, and you don't think that it will, however, see in five or six years who will be right, and then it won't be particularly important which one of us was completely right. It will be much more important whether in those five or six years we managed to reform our public sector, whether we were able to fully secure the rule of law, whether we were able to transform this country economically. These are the jobs that await us on our way to the EU, and it is true, we will have a lot of problems. Some of these problems will also be caused by different power centers in the world, and none of us hide it, neither of us is trying to say that things are different, except what we think is real, in line with Serbia's interests or if you want the only rational and possible policy Serbia can lead today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23218	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Slobodan Samardzic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23219	When it comes to the rule of law, how are we going to strengthen the rule of law when we violate the Constitution, in many places, with these agreements that I've been talking about? Whether or not they have good neighbourly relations, but that is a context. Therefore, the rule of law is thrown under the feet of the Constitution and political pressure is put on the Constitutional Court to assess proposals on the constitutionality and legality of the agreements and other documents. So there's no "v" from the rule of law. That's a good example of how you'll accomplish it. But let's put aside these legal issues, though they are very important. Do you think Serbs in Kosovo are wondering or should they ask about these things? They're Serbian citizens. They expressed their political will, therefore, not desire, but will repeatedly, in an unquestionable way, which in the referendum, by establishing the Assembly. There's no doubt about it, and it's almost 100%. Is it worth sacrificing part of the territory, part of history, the Constitution of Serbia, the political will of these people, so that Serbia will go into such uncertainty as the EU? There is uncertainty, I have not spoken at all, as you say, of the survival or the absence of the EU, that is not what I'm talking about. I just said that the EU will not expand in due course. That's enough for politicians and politics. It's due ten years. That's what everybody's gonna tell you. That's not gonna happen. That's what it's all about, of course, and that's what it's all about. Put everything on the table, and measure whether what you're doing is worth such a foggy goal. Today, Serbia does not depend on the EU to the extent that it could depend on 10 or 15 years ago, that then we started to do the job, and we could not for various reasons. Then your argument would still be valid. (President: Time.) Today the situation is completely different. The world is open. There are other centres for economic development, other destinations for trade, and the EU needs to change its relationship mode, not end relations. That's what we never claimed. So we have a way of doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23220	Time. Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23221	Today Serbia has the best possible relations with many non-EU countries, best relations in its modern political history with both the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China and with many Arab world countries, Asia and Africa and the non-Arab world from Asia and Africa, Latin America. We are making an increase primarily in exports, but of course, exchanges of goods and services with all these countries. We're pretty successful everywhere. I expect the results of this success to be particularly visible in 2014. We did not only limit ourselves to EU countries. It is neither a blind nor a short-sighted policy in which we have some idolatry relationship with the EU, without seeing anything else around us, on the contrary. But I just have to tell you one thing that I don't agree with at all. Today we depend much more on the EU than we did 10 and 15 years ago. Today, we depend much more on many areas of social life than we did back then. Serbian citizens think it's fair to know that, because we will get, when we criticise the World Bank, when we criticise the IMF, and without the EU's attachment, you will get neither from the World Bank nor from the IMF nor the 250m-euro loan we expect within three months with the lowest interest rate possible, so that we do not take loans of 8.3% or 8.4%, as we have taken in some previous times. So, in many ways we depend on the EU. There's a lot we're just going to depend on from their funds. We've had a bad negotiation of the SAA, especially negotiating bad parts about agriculture. We will suffer the consequences of bad negotiations in the previous period, but it will bring us important things for our country in the next period and we will have to put ourselves very differently marketed, we will have to think about how to win by production, not by political licenses. In the end, no one throws under the feet the wishes of Kosovo-Methochian Serbs, which is absolutely undeniable. I don't think there is a single man in this House who thinks that Kosovo is not part of Serbia or something we've already talked about countless times. There are only ways not only to achieve our goals, but how not to lose everything, how not to lose the future for everyone, and that's nothing hazy. That would be perfectly clear. On the other hand, whoever thinks it's possible in a different way to run a policy, I'm sure you can get significant support from the elections of the people, but let me tell you frankly, I hope you don't get angry, because there are a lot of people in your party that I really respect, and with some I'm a friend, I don't think that's a responsible policy enough. I think that's what we tell the citizens that something that's closer to the emotion is easy to achieve, and I'm afraid that in reality it's far from reasonable and far from rational approach and far from the real result that we could achieve. I'm sorry I made it too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23222	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Slobodan Samardzic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23223	You are right when you said that Serbia has good relations with other countries, and not only that, but also those other countries have a good relationship with Serbia. You are right when you said that Serbia has a good relationship with the EU, except that reciprocity does not exist. The European Union does not have a good relationship with Serbia. She's using her for one thing, and that's to hand her over to Kosovo. The saddest thing, the saddest thing, is not the EU's authentic request. She's simply an executive in such a single request that came out of the other side of the ocean. And that poor position of hers speaks of her poor situation, at least today when it comes to political matters. We don't have to commit to the EU all over the lines. Not only because of Kosovo, which is the most important reason to think about whether the SAA is a real thing, but it is only one member of 134. Today or yesterday since the SAA has fully taken effect we will face many other problems, the part bearing the name – political dialogue. Today, to make commitments in the EU's foreign security and defence policy, when it does not know what to do with it, when it is an internal chaos. He does whatever he wants or solls as he wants. It's a really big adventure. What do we need? This has nothing to do with economics, trade, education, technical and technological development, so we need to develop relations with the EU, but it has to do with Serbia's future. It has to do with KIM, of course. There is no courage, no vision, no good judgment and good analysis of what is happening in the EU in the world today. We don't have to go black and white, and we don't have to go or-or. If we have strategy and intelligence, will and purpose for good relations, we'll act quite differently. It is unfortunate that Serbs from Kosovo are the most visible existential victims of what we are talking about. We can't let that happen. It's not a matter of respect for their political will, it's actually being trampled. This is what the state authorities of Serbia are doing today to carry out that warrant to hold elections on 3 November.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23224	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23225	I'll just try two sentences to answer you. We cannot choose and ask Mr Samardzic for what we like from the EU. We can't say we're not going to tell the EDU, which is a shortcut for a European defence agency that isn't NATO and has nothing to do with NATO, and at the same time, we want your money and we want to trade with you. It's naive to think, and I think it's unfair to try to tell the citizens of Serbia that we can choose what it is that we want from a package that we kind of like and don't like. We are too small a country, which had a lot of bad things to offer in the previous period, above all, indiscipline, disowning from its own views, not keeping promises, that we had no trust in different international institutions. And today what matters to us is that we know where we belong. If we want to trade with the EU, we must also meet the EU's other conditions, and if we do not want to meet these conditions, forget about the trade. Don't tell people it's possible to have one without having to have the other, because it's simply not true. Finally, as far as the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs are concerned, I will not allow your policy to be better for the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs than ours. Because I think that with this policy, above all, we would bring the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs into an even more difficult situation, and according to their neighbours, Albanians, and the question of how to end their survival in the centuries-old hearths and in that territory, and whether we could have the territory in this way how we are able to manage our muscles today, with a great deal of pain in keeping within the constitutional and legal order. So, I think it's important to put all things, as you said at one point, to measure exactly, and when you do, and when every citizen is honest, not with himself, not with emotions, not because he doesn't like Albanians, not because he doesn't like Europeans, but because he thinks about the future of his country, I am confident he would choose the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23226	Replica, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23227	It is simply not true that the EU is developing its trade relations. I can't get used to it, and don't take this time away from me. Some things have been said here and should be denied if there are arguments. It is not true that the EU is developing its trade relations based on political conditions. Namely, it is not the EU principle. It does so with Serbia and only with Serbia. Serbia needs to wonder why that is. I think that's because Serbia allows itself. The European Union is developing an entire system of relations, including with non-EU countries, including Western Europe and northern Europe, without depending on the Treaty of Establishment. It is one fact and do not misread what the EU is doing, because I must now protect it against your interpretation. Today, in the world of the country, their trade relations are largely not blackmailed with an exception in political relations, and today there are many destinations in the world where these relationships can develop nicely. That's Brussels. We simply got involved like a chicken in a doghouse with that EU thinking that there is no world outside it, and also thinking that it is so powerful that we cannot live without it. I'm saying one more time it's not about strategy or-or strategy. It is about studies of alternatives that exist today, and the state has to open it unless it wants this country to get into a dead end, and it is called unconditional EU membership. Unconditional membership when they no longer expand. According to what they say, as I said, for a reasonable period of time, and this is a devastating and devastating policy and it will have its consequences not only on economic relations and trade policy. If we introduce these customs duties from 2014 you will see how agriculture will work. That's another question. (President: Time.) Second, we have the opportunity to do things right, but we have neither political maturity nor political knowledge nor politics as much as it requires today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23228	Vice President Vukic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23229	Just a few things. It's just not true, Mr. Samardzic, what you said. What you said about the lack of political conditions in trade with certain countries is not true. See examples of Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan and other countries. Look today at the trade trade for goods, whether they're developing and whether they're trying to get better. They're trying, not to be under their control. The European Union is not only a market, a set of countries with 500 million inhabitants, the world's most developed countries, the most powerful countries in the world do not count the United States on the one hand, Russia and China on the other. It's the most ordered space in the world. Do you really think those one Ukraine that has 53 residents don't say they have to trade in one way or another? They know every letter. They know when it gives them 60 million tonnes of wheat that the price of wheat per day is incomparably lower because the EU says it needs it in such a way and will not release the benefits agreed earlier. Do you really think we can get support and help unless we accept other EU conditions? That's completely impossible. Everyone in this room knows that. I know you know that, too. I know you know that, too, and it's not a question of our territorial integrity. You're talking about the SAA, and you're absolutely right. Who negotiated this, Mr. Djelic or Dacic or Wolf? We're going to try everything and it's true that in 2014 what was badly negotiated for agriculture. Let me remind you, you too boasted and held the gatherings, a little rally on Prince Michael's street when the SAA was adopted. I'm sorry. I was wrong. It was a feasibility study. I remember when you shared those flyers in Prince Michael's street, Mr. Samardzic, and the slogan was – feasible. It's doable, and now it's no longer feasible. It was doable then, and now that you're not in power, it's not doable. Okay. I think it's hard for us to do, but we have to do it so Serbia can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23230	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23231	What you said about the EU and its trade policy is really terrible for the EU. Openly tell us that they are making an open request that they will trade with us and we will trade with them if we surrender Kosovo. Say that and then we can discuss this thing. The European Union is indeed working really hard to respect the rules of the World Trade Organisation, whose collective member it is, and there are no such rules there. The only exception is towards Serbia. Maybe it's what you say, but then say it. Maybe we'll set ourselves up if you convince us that's the way it has to be done. But it doesn't have to. I'm quite certain of that. The Democratic Party of Serbia had a pro-European union policy. So not pro-European, because we're making a mistake. We identify Europe and the European Union. It's two different things, more and more. She had that policy by 2007, 2008. The Kosovo question is what made it, so to speak, a split in this matter. We're here because it doesn't respect the principle of territorial integrity. It's in her founding acts. It stands in all of its positive acts in foreign and security policy -- respect for the principles of the UN or Resolution 1244, etc. You have the introduction of an SAA to respect Resolution 1244, but the Union does not act that way because it has broken those rules and we are not making any concessions, that's what this is about. The Democratic Party of Serbia cannot accept that. Let it be openly said -- it cannot accept and change its policy in terms of changing EU policy towards Serbia. You know, only dogmats don't change their policies in relation to changed circumstances. We have done this for double reasons, Kosovo, and the damage and benefit of co-operation with the EU in the SAA regime. That's what we analyzed and talked about more than once. So we can explain it very simply and easily. That's what we disagree on. That's understood, but let's let you have the free discussion, open it up in this House, and let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23232	He's got a word for it. Bozidar Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23233	I am very proud that, on behalf of the DS and almost all parties present in parliament, it seems to me, the SAA is in effect. Today we hear he's supposed to be badly negotiated. For the sake of history, I took over the negotiation at the moment when the provision was mentioned, which is that the sale of agricultural land was already agreed by the previous government, representatives of those who have just spoken and Mrs Dulic Markovic, who was in charge of it. I'm not changing my mind. When, on 29 April 2008, on behalf of our country, I signed a Stabilisation Agreement in Luxembourg, the SRS, now the SNS, threatened to arrest me. Today, I believe that the great success for all of Serbia is that they changed their mind, which Mr. Vukic, who then glued posters through the name of Zoran Djindjic and placed Ratko Mladic, changed his mind and today believes that Serbia should go to the EU. (Chairman: Mr. Djelic, please. We will consider this a victory of the DS that is in the interest of our country. Let's not forget, in the area of agriculture, the SAA has allowed us to get the benefits of exporting some of our very important products. How it is poorly negotiated, and today one Croatia, which entered the EU on July 1st, is moved to ensure that it is not subject to the SAA provisions, but to apply CEFTA provisions. It shows unequivocally because what bothers Croatia... I'm sorry that Mr. Ljajic, who is negotiating this, is not in the O.R. right now. Of course we have protected our products, especially those that matter to our farmers. Therefore, Croatia, which has customs duties between 10% and 30% in various products, is trying to avoid it. Therefore, to repeat, the SAA, as a guarantee of the stability of trade relations between our country and the EU, is not only good, because all investors from all over are asking for this stability with the biggest market in the world, it is also good for our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23234	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23235	I'll try to answer Mr. Djelic. Mr. Djelic, that when you raise your tone and you lean too loudly forward, does not strengthen your argument at all. Please, feel free and calm to bring out everything you think. I don't have any problems. We will listen to you and always answer in an equally peaceful manner. The Serbian Radical Party is not the Serbian Progressive Party. Some of us were members of the SRS, some of us weren't members of the SRS. I'm the one who's guilty, I'm the one who was. Somehow I can't do it, and I don't want to hide it, and I don't care. I'm worried about what you said about someone arresting you for a feasibility study, an SSP or something. It's true that we used to say that some other things were supposed to consider arresting, but it had nothing to do with the SAA and the EU, but it had something to do with... Are you threatening, Mr. Djelic? Are you threatening or throwing something else? I didn't hear you correctly, Mr. Djelic. Would you like to do it again, Mr. Djelic? In the congregation discussions, the story of the aunt’s couch and the millions in the “Cretichrele Bank” was discussed and nothing more. That's what it's all about. As you can see, Mr. Djelic, there is no investigation against you, as far as I know, and no one wants to say in any way what he once said in the congregation benches. That, how, how, and where, of the DS officials, has fairies, who, how lives and who gets rich, is one thing. It has something to do with how it's been going in the past few years. What has or has nothing to do with crime is decided by the authorities. It's certainly not a crime that you've negotiated either well, or a poor feasibility study, the SAA. I think you've negotiated badly because we have a completely unprotected agricultural production. Our peasants will feel how bad you've done for them in the next few years. Every time you remember Ratko Mladic's street, I want to let you know what this is all about. It wasn't the glorging of Ratko Mladic, it was the putting of the street's name because some people were arrested because they did it two days before. It was a matter of fighting for freedom of opinion. I made the mistake of finding it as an example, but then people were released. It had nothing to do with the values of Ratko Mladic and some others. This was the case, you can take a good look at what happened then in front of "B92" happened, but if you have no other argument, and until a moment ago the representatives of your political party told me – why do you keep going back to the past, and then in a minute your replica about the SAA and agriculture, remember Ratko Mladic and the SRS, then, Mr Djelic, you have some serious problem both with reality and with the present, and about the future that we are not talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23236	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23237	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. How can I tell you, character is a person. Our actions make up who we are. He said nothing – no matter how hard we try, we can't be bigger than our own biography. I guess six years ago, you were talking about some of my alleged illegal wealth. Thank you, for today, six years later, and later, I'm going to say openly, orchestrating from your side of my media murder. Yeah, those are specific words. I'm glad you confirmed there's nothing in that today. Since you've chosen a colleague who works at a firm where I used to work, even in a higher hierarchical place, ask him if I'm back on my aunt's couch, ask him if it was true. I'm glad that today, I think we're closing this sterile controversy and hopefully we'll be able to concentrate on what our citizens need. This crisis is big, bigger than both this government and this one that will be elected and I hope that this way we will honor both the work of the National Assembly and our political discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23238	Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23239	The truth is, I didn't say it was definitely over. I just said, Mr. Djelic, that right now, things are going to be the way you wanted them to be, but of course, the final court will be given by the competent state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23240	Thank you. This is a direct threat to the MP. I don't have any problem with that, but I just want to say one thing. Mr. Wolfie, six years later you have all the power. In front of all Serbian citizens, I invite you personally, all members of your task force, all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, come to my house tomorrow, come the day after tomorrow, come when you have time, come and see everything. If there's anything in what I did, and there isn't, I know what's coming to me. If not, Mr. Wolf, the least I expect from you is a public apology. Is she all right?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23241	I don't know why you're so upset, Mr. Djelic. I will certainly apologize for every word I have in the Assembly, not today, but from six or ten years ago, when it was, but I am not going home and there is no reason to go home, because the competent state authorities can look at the papers and from what the competent state authorities see in the papers, they will make a decision. If I'm going to apologize, or if there's going to be another case, we're going to leave some time. Anyway, I don't have a problem with saying I was wrong, unlike some others, just don't make premature conclusions. I always like the state to do its job thoroughly. It has nothing to do with the threat, because, I repeat, it's always so much easier for me, but don't throw it away, don't threaten, don't yell, don't say I'm sorry, and I'd love it very much. I would love it very much, and I hope this is the case this time, but don't overestimate the final position of the competent state authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23242	The word is Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23243	Thank you. Mr. President, gentlemen of the executive board, I am very pleased that the past hour has passed in such a discussion. I was just thinking that we'd get into some amazing story about the reconstruction of the government based on some strange patho of the opposition's representative about how to be correct, how to be strictly decent, and how polite it is to be understood in the National Assembly, it's defined by the Rules of Procedure, and how approximately we have to be very gentle and sophisticated towards each other, even though the results that have shown that certain parties... If you can ask the MPs, I can't hear myself. Maybe they can hear me. They may be MPs from my parliamentary group, very likely. Thank you. So, it's really good that we're back in this discussion, given that the debate on reconstruction is on the agenda, and there are people sitting with us all day, and it's really nice to see what it's like to sit in parliamentary benches, and that's going to be responsible on our behalf tomorrow for what's going to be the result of this government. So, I'm sorry that the subject of reconstruction has come down to the opposition's criticism about the length of the reconstruction. Based on what we had the opportunity to hear in these three days, the reconstruction is considered from the opposition's point of view as some extortional activity of this government, which was very unsuccessful within a year, which is of course not true, and the time it was meant to be a proof of the seriousness and seriousness and once the introduction of a new concept of responsibility into political life is approximately defined as having us reconstructed the government building the Scadar. It really isn't, and I'd like to explain why I think the reconstruction deserves three days of debate in the Assembly, and possibly more. I don't have a problem with having a discussion for a long time, and I don't know what kind of argument it is -- why are we sitting here for three days? I don't get it at all. As far as I'm concerned, we can sit for 10 days 12 hours a day, given that it concerns what is very important for the citizens of Serbia and I believe they are interested in it, so that these sad-assed and corny women are concerned about how long the debate on reconstruction is going on, which, in the public opinion, is pointless. For that good cream, Mr Samardzic gave it, who said one sentence, and I wrote it down. He says, "What does anyone do in public politics?" That's right. What's anyone doing in public policy? Now, and according to what the presidents of the DS have said about Mr. Risticevic's exposure, as it was unreasonable or distasteful, I really disagree with that, but if you prefer a high-priced phraseology, which we will create a euphemism for the reach of your rule, gentlemen of the DS, we can also talk about. That sounds nicer and lighter, and it's more pleasant for your ear. But the essence is the same. On the other hand, the story of what anyone is doing in public policy and in Serbia's public life leads us to praise this government, which has introduced a deneberative democracy in action. Deliberative democracy means a system of government in which all public matters are decided by common debate. We've been here three days in a joint discussion. It has its shortcomings, it has many debates and many arguments, and therefore it is not always appropriate, but it is also important for citizens to understand what the objectives of this government are. It was very strange for me to listen to a three-day argument that came down to meaning by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and a violation of what is a minimal or procedural democracy, because the procedure is, as the gentlemen in the parties of democratic and liberal orientation, the essence of minimal and modern democracy, as they know. Therefore, abuse was a great deal, and I don't understand why the opposition's MPs think that the debate on reconstruction should only be the subject of the opposition's MPs. And I think the MPs of the ruling parties have something to say on the subject. It's probably the perception of what they used to be when they were in power were exclusively voting machines. We're not that, we have an opinion, we have our own position, and of course we'll say that, so let's have a debate. What's the problem? As far as the reconstruction itself is concerned, is it cosmetic and is it just formal and is it only reduced to personal solutions? First, it is not only cosmetic, it carries a strong structural dimension of reform or reconstruction, and it concerns the division of two very important ministries that are truly responsible for what is Serbia's burning problem today, which is the economy and finance, which is the way in which the country's economic policy is being run more effectively. So that thing itself is enough not to be a protocolal reconstruction. On the other hand, personal solutions, i.e. personal changes that occurred are also not only personal, these are conceptual changes. They are conceptual because people who are not party personnel are introduced. If you ask me personally, and my party colleagues know it and I'm not ashamed to say it publicly, I haven't quite embraced the idea of independent experts and non-party personalities. I have my reasons for that. I think we're all in political competence, political parties competent enough to be able to participate in politics. Of course, there are always better ones than us, who are not in politics and should be drawn to them, to work on getting these people into public policy, so why not political parties, but that's not a condition. But then I was thinking why actually the candidates who are not party members came to the advantage of really understanding the party's extraordinary position that suggests non-party personalities, and in this case SNS. Because you, gentlemen of future ministers, will not need one critical opposition with your phraseology to get political points to do better, because your work is recognised, which your knowledge is recognized and seen and which you are given confidence to work on the goals that this government and this party, which is the backbone of the government, has drawn. The awake monitoring of our ruling coalition will give you the incentive to do better than it will be the criticism of the opposition. I'm sure it's the highest quality that future ministers who are not party members can have. Because we look at you the way we look at the members of our party who are ministers in this case. I see that some concrete solutions have been avoided to mention. I don't have a problem with saying, at least for those people I know. Mr. Mirovic, as a colleague from my party, is indeed a man who is operational, who is up-to-date, who has a great political experience, also has a formal education extraordinary, and I have no doubt that he will be just in what is his portfolio and up-to-date. On the other hand, if I wasn't here to end up being dishonest, they'd heard something about Mr. Ruzic. I know Mr. Ruzic personally, from college, he was an excellent student. He lacks knowledge from European affairs, lacks political experience, and I don't know why you said that about Mr. Ruzic, I don't think there's a reason. Mr. Rodić is a remarkable man and a high integrity and high intellectual standards, a higher education. I've had the opportunity to work with him as head of the Security Control Committee while he was director of the BIA, and I'll tell you that when you're watching someone, then you can only determine how and how much he works. It's a man who has great respect for the legality of the work, and I expect it to continue. Of course, and all the other solutions I don't see are less bad. This story about the biography Mr Samardzic mentioned, such as these biographies do not give confidence. Well, you know what, I really agree that no biography has to give anyone trust. Why would anyone's biography put their trust in themselves? But also up until a year ago, we couldn't judge the biographies of those run by the SNS. Now that you see them in action, they'll judge citizens in a good way or a bad way. Therefore, an opportunity for someone with good biography should certainly be given. On the other hand, another thing I didn't understand, and I'm really going to agree with part of the opposition, it's that the biography really wasn't delivered in time. I believe that when such biographies are presented to MPs and opposition, in order to certainly shorten the debate and to achieve a good consensus, I believe that the presidents of the opposition will greatly vote for our candidates. One more thing, I've recorded all sorts of things here, and as the debate has been under way, the course of the debate has changed, the essence of the whole story about reconstruction is the introduction, as I said, of a conceptually new dynamic of political life in Serbia, which is, therefore, a non-party category of politicians, and on the other hand, a test of responsibility. That famous passing time, I agree, may be some more interesting term or syntagma to be found, but it is a test of results for a certain time. Why not? It will be a rapper for all future in the government and not only for the most authorities but also for everyone in the deep, therefore, from local level to public enterprises. Well, I guess that's a good thing. I don't understand why we should talk about this briefly. Just one more thing about some of the things that opposition representatives in a very frivolous way graded the domains of reconstruction or the motives of reconstruction and time and length of reconstruction. I really think the argument was insufficient, quite inadequate and quite anemic, but it's already on the opposition's side. I say, I'd like to continue the debate. Why not go deep into the night? What difference does it make? What are these stories about night governments? As long as there's a topic to talk about, this assembly can work. As long as we don't break the Rules of Procedure or something that should be good manners, I don't see why we shouldn't discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23244	National MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23245	Dear citizens, I listen to you all day today, there is no topic you haven't missed and there is no topic on which you haven't deceived the citizens. A few days ago, only someone said -- the state was too word for Serbia and did not lie. Serbia today to Vukic, not like the state. After just a year of your first government, Serbia went completely bankrupt. First political, then financial and ultimately moral. You've offered citizens a better life. There were big words and big promises. You said that only you had a solution for Serbia, and where today those solutions are when you stand in front of us and ask for support for a shift, almost half of the government, which you said was best for Serbia. Whose responsibility is that? Alice Maric or yours, Vukic, who you chose the same ministers a year ago and not just ministers but also your prime minister? Who's to blame, Alexander, for these years... (President: Please, Mr Bozovic, you are first obliged with respect to address members of the government, not by personal name. You can use the specifics, sir, as we address you every time we say or by the title of function Mr. Vukic performs, but don't call him by his name because it doesn't suit you, especially by the tone you speak. Who's to blame, Mr. Wolfie, for this year's hellhole where 40,000 people are out of a job? I've been listening to you bring up some information today that isn't true. I don't know if they're telling the truth to us or if you're telling the truth to the citizens of Serbia? I hold in my hand the Republic Bureau of Statistics and Data from the National Employment Service, the only internationally recognised labour force survey in Serbia, both coincide. October 2012 - 22.4% unemployment, April 2013 - 24.1% unemployment. What about 6% less salary and pension this year? Who's responsible for not having a single investment and not a single new job? Who's responsible for bringing down the fight against organised crime to the release of over 3,000 criminals from prison? Who is responsible for corruption on every corner while you simulate this struggle by keeping political opponents in custody for months? You didn't promise us these results a year ago, Mr. Wolfie. Why are you afraid of responsibility? When it broke around Kosovo, you planted Dacic. Sit on your right. When you charged four and a half billion euros, you said it was Dinkic's fault. When the general enthusiasm of the citizens of Dacic kicked him out of the government, you brought him back to that government, so you promoted him to the post of First Deputy Prime Minister. I'm glad you're playing politics with us. When the most severe patients lost their medicine, and the children died because the state had no time or money for them, you said, well, I don't run health care. Well, you obviously don't run anything in Serbia. You're obviously not responsible for anything in this country. Then how is it possible for everyone to wonder? Is this your responsible policy? You put Kolesar in jail, I don't want to defend him this time, to be quite clear, because according to the government's decision, without the tender, the Irons were sold and the debts were taken over. Well, didn't you do it with JAT a month ago? As far as I know, unlike "The Iron Man", JAT was not in bankruptcy. The first time you started to deal with the economy, you showed little to say, an unprecedented talent, so you sold the hotel, which the state paid 200,000 euros, for 1.500,000 euros without a tender. What about 600,000 euros difference? You know how you're asking us, who took that money? Is that what you want with Telecom? Is that the fair sale of state property you've been announcing for so long? Mr. Wolfie, if you're innocent, and I don't doubt that you're not, then why are these people in jail? I don't expect you to admit that you're guilty, because I know from your experience that you understand things with 20 years of delay, but without your admission, the fact is that your first government has had a debacle in these years. Tell me, what are the criteria for this circus since the reconstruction that lasts over six months, and did you know that during the reconstruction, only 20,000 people were out of work? We've never heard of people being replaced. You're replacing ministers, and you don't want to admit your responsibility. All right, tell us at least why they've been replaced. Are they replaced based on impact and results or because they are no longer in your political grace? Here's one we can agree on, Mr. Wolfie, and that's Mrkonjic. He hasn't done anything in almost a year. But how did Velimir Ilic stay in the government, who did even less than Mrkonjic? How is Alisa Maric not in the government and Bačević remains? Do you have criteria for the new people you're proposing? Well, your future finance minister in his first public address, your name and last name has been mentioned over 30 times. Did that qualify him to take the most important resort in the country? Only in one sentence did he mention a measure called belt tightening. What kind of genius is that? Better than that, high school students in Serbia could have thought of. That's what Nebojsa Stefanovic could have told you. He is a wolf, and he's a doctor. (President: Mr Bozovicu, I have already warned you that you refer to Mr Vukic in a decent manner. Next time you do, I'll give you a warning. ) Mr. Vukicu, if the only criterion for being Minister of Finance is Yale University, why did you invite someone with three-year basic studies and not, for example, Kori Udovici, who doctored at Yale? Is it true that the future minister of the government's economy, on his Twitter account, publicly said that the biggest nonsense he heard in his life that Lazar Krstic would be the finance minister? We have a concern that this other government of yours, Wolfie, will be worse than this first one. (President: I give you a reminder. ) Bring Guzenbauer to advise you on European integration. Since, Mr. Vukic, you inherited a great deal of experience in the European integrations of Vojislav Seselj, and then you invited a stranger to help you in this business. All right. Does that cost 45,000 euros a month? That's half a million euros a year. Who's gonna pay for that? Citizens of Serbia. Why should the citizens of Serbia pay for your ignorance, she could advise you free of charge, Milica Delevic. On the one hand, I don't believe that anyone more competent than her in this matter, and on the other hand, I believe that she would have agreed, that you hadn't dragged their family through the mud for a year, so she finally had to leave the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23246	Mr. Bozovic, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23247	Mr. Vukicu, as long as university professors such as Sasha Dragin sit in prison, and there are criminals and fans' leaders on the loose, there is no luck in this country, as long as Milice Delevic is out of Serbia, while you and your party are muddying Dr. Bojan Pajtic, Mr. Dusan Spasojevic, Professor. Micunovic, Bozidar Djelic, and in the government you were seated in Bačević, Mirovic, Velimir Ilic, Vulin and Milanka Karic, not a single step will Serbia go forward, Mr Vukic. You are often compared to the media that you control, which exist so that you can look at every morning and read how beautiful and smart you are and how much Serbia loves you. Often lately, between the lines, you've been compared to Zoran Djindjic, so I wanted to take this opportunity to talk about it for the last time and put an end to it. Mr. Vukic, you must understand, this comparison of many in Serbia offends you, however much it pleases you. Zoran called only those who knew more about him and those who had more experience in the specific business than he did. Unlike you, he knew that Serbia was not ruled, but served Serbia. In his government, Mr. Vukic, there were no bankruptcy managers and no foreigners asked, and what kind of government is that where your personnel are the squad of those who know less or who are less professional than you? Whether you fear it better than yourself or really firmly believe that there is no one in Serbia who is smarter and more capable than you. That's why you'll never be the man who can compare you to Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23248	I'm taking your word. This really doesn't make sense what you're saying. Because you said the qualification you said, that's why you'll never be human. I'm looking for a copy of the stenogram. I'll read it to you tonight. Give me a copy of the stenogram, the last two minutes. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize, but I'll read you what you said. You can't get the word, I've said a word-retracting measure. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, tonight we have had the opportunity to hear the outcry of the hatred of Dragan Gilas towards the SNS and myself personally. Mr. Bozovicu, tonight you've been making a lot of lies, a lot of lies, the most difficult slanders by trying to challenge me with street and street dictionaries, to act like you, to yell and to answer in the same way. Being uneducated does not give you the right or reason to be primitive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23250	Mr. Wolfie, please don't call the MPs primitive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23251	If you didn't notice it from the way I was exposed, and I didn't mean to tell you anything, she noticed the whole of Serbia, she talks more about you than about me. As for the data you spoke of, because of the citizens of Serbia, and I think it is very important that I point out, Mr Bozovic, I will not call it a name, since we are not in any way... Don't win, don't yell and don't threaten from the scene. You've already worked hard enough and spoken in the course of your primitive exposure. So you said we kicked Mrs. Delevic's family out of the country. Truth works, shame on you, Mr. Bozovic, for saying things like that. We gave her a job at IBRT with my signature. With my signature, she got a job at IBRT. Shame on you whether I suggested her to be the minister in this government. I signed the Serbian government's recommendation to be part of the IBRT because it couldn't be. I asked it to be her, not Radovan Jelasic, although Mr Dinkic insisted on being Mr Jelasic. You're telling me today, what kind of branches did you burn? Here you say - the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Dear citizens of Serbia, here's the Republic Bureau of Statistics to see who's telling the truth. I'll read you every number. You pulled it out of the site, and look who you pulled it from. Please don't. Here are the exact details of the respected citizens of Serbia. In 2001 employed 2,101,668, 2002 2,066,721 and so on. We didn't lose much until 2008. Then when Mr Bozovic and other uneducated people took over the digins of power, then we got the following. In 2009, we lost 110,000 employees, 2010 – 96,000 employees, 2011 – 50,000 employees, 2012 – 19,000 employees, and in 2013 there are 2,000 employees more than in 2012. Just as much, Mr. Bozovic, as you like the truth. I don't want to talk about what business you're in here for. You, Mr Bozovic, are headed by Belgrade's DS branch. It's a disgrace to this client. The party used to have the least people in Belgrade at its helm. Back in the day, the most clever people ran that party. Look who's running the DS in Belgrade today, and then you wonder what you've fallen to 10% and what no one else in Serbia will vote for you. So, precisely to specify the exact information. Since 2008, when 14.81% were unemployed, we came to 2012, when 25.91% were unemployed. As far as criminals are concerned, criminals are sitting in prisons or there are some that are not on the defendant's benches. There'll be more. Of course. Unlike the time when criminals ruled this country in different ways, they decided its fate and determined its fate. The time for criminals to run this country, and you would like that time to return to Mr. Bozovic, will never return. That's the thing I guarantee you. You're saying, why didn't you call Cori Widowsky? I must disappoint you, yes. Tomorrow Corry Widowsky comes to me, needs to present a plan and strategy for the next five years. I want to tell you a few more things, you say – the media that under my control speak nicely of me. I have to tell you, it's not profit, or my profit, it's not hundreds of millions, it's your president, and I didn't make it for seconds or on the pages, I made money, I made it for someone else. Looks like you've mixed up who it's about, Mr. Bozovic. And the way you talk to me, trying to get me out of a beat, to react the way any normal person would react, shows that you don't know well the fact that there are people who think about Serbia and who won't react emotionally. Who will not react, even as any normal and honorable man would react, because sometimes they must have their vanity and their character and their humanity to win and to react in accordance with the interests of this country. Trying to provoke me, acting primitively, acting the way you've been acting, I have to tell you that you've made a lot of mistakes and failed. So, about the data you've provided, we've found that none of it is true. You said 20,000 people have lost their jobs since the reconstruction. You either don't count, or you don't like telling the truth, the third doesn't exist. So, by chance 2,000 people are more busy, but you can't read it seems to me, or someone can't read it to you. As for Mr. Guzem Bauer, don't make up that the Serbian government pays 45,000 a month and I tell you once again I don't know that you're not ashamed, we'll pay 1,900 euros at the monthly level, shame on you were 45,000 and 1,900, so look at how you're not ashamed, how you're not ashamed, I'll show you all the contracts we'll have and you'll be able to see everything, and this Guzem Bauer was coming to your promotion, Mr. Bozovic, while he thought the Democratic Party was a normal party and he supported it, but he doesn't seem to work with the Democratic Party anymore, but he will. He was then the best man in the world, the most successful prime minister in Europe, and apparently not anymore. I think he was a good Prime Minister of Austria. I think he's a successful man. As you can see, I've denied all your numbers, all your numbers with ease, only I can't win with you, Mr. Bozovic, and I'm proud of that, that's your ignorance and your culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23252	According to the Rules of Procedure, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23253	Dear President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that, Mr Stefanovic, you have injured Article 106. Rules of Procedure. You have estimated Mr Bozovic's exposure to two warnings. I can agree with that and disagree, but I have no right to judge your decisions. However, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, is a dictionary who did not use Mr. Bozovic the truth, I say I would not want to enter your evaluations, with the words "primitive, uneducated, shame, shame" directly addressing the MP, injure the reputation of the National Assembly, and I do not think that he has contributed to a debate that goes towards the direction that sometimes the other side that has a little more experience of political and position in the country, however, try not to, as he said, be upset. Not only did he get upset, but he injured the Rules of Procedure, and you, Mr Stefanovic, were obliged to sanction and threaten you, not only you, but the National Assembly and all the peoples and citizens of Serbia who do not have democratic authority anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23254	I have to tell you, I haven't experienced anyone's statement here as a threat, nor would anything like that be possible in this home, nor has anyone said that, but I think the debate can go back to normal tone, but you have to remember the exposure of your MP who was such that I should have said something earlier. However, I wanted to allow democratic dialogue and, of course, the representatives of the opposition have more reasons to criticise this parliament, but when they do so in a normal tone and when this discussion is decent and polite, then there is no need for any reaction. But when it isn't, then unfortunately we have to reach out to some disciplinary measures. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23255	I want to point out to the citizens of Serbia one thing, that whoever got upset saw well and who was telling the truth, saw the citizens well from the data I provided. Now I ask you, show me how 45,000 euros are paid to Guzem Bauer? Show me 45,000 a month, not a year, but a month show me... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Did I ask? Shame on you, you asked now if it was true. Dear citizens of Serbia, now says he did not say it, but that he asked if it was true, now they say, respected citizens of Serbia. What you're doing in this room, it has nothing to do with decency, it's never been done by anyone in the National Assembly, and all kinds of nonsense has been done, and we've all listened and done things sometimes. What you're doing doesn't make any sense. The words I have spoken are polite words of a decent and abstentioned man. I don't even want to try to read you the content of the messages I've received from decent people, what they would say and what they would answer. I tried to make arguments, from Milica Delevic, Ruzica Djindjic and the others I never wanted to mention because I never compared myself to Mr Djindjic, nor did I think of it, it was the only thing I didn't want to talk about, about everything else I was talking about. Why did he answer? This is where everything that I said two days ago came to light, when I showed you what the plan was. I then told the citizens of Serbia -- some being the topic or the government of Serbia, there will be no theme either by my colleague and friend, Mr Dacic, the only topic will be Aleksandar Vukic. At this point, I'm bothering them a little bit more, because crime no longer manages Serbia, because their tycoons are no longer the key players in this country, because they can no longer manage all economic flows like they did before and because their companies can't make billions, as we made yesterday. That's why they're bothered at this point by me, tomorrow they'll be bothered by someone else. I have to tell you, I hope you understand me, I'd like to stay in this debate, I'll be back in an hour, I have a meeting with the French minister, I hope you'll allow me, Mr. Dacic will be here, I just want to tell you, I'm proud of this team of people who have attacked and called so much, but that you allow yourself to attack Lazar Krstic and to talk about his expertise, you, Mr. Bozovic, to talk about someone's expertise or about the expertise of Lazar Krstic, you talk about it? I just have to say that I wonder if anyone in this country can hear it from your mouth without a bitter, very bitter smile. Lazar Krstic will be a successful finance minister, and you will never be near Lazar Krstic for anything, especially for knowledge and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23256	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Wolf, I'm sorry you're going out, but there are some things that need to be clarified here. Mr. President, just because we're used to being insulted by Mr. Vukic doesn't mean you should let him insult and threaten the MPs. (President: Excuse me, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken? ) Articles 27 and 107. Searching for the culprit in DS and Dragan Gilas, is actually hiding from... (President: This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't enter the replica. Tell me what I did. So, what does the breach of the Rules of Procedure consist of? ) You must allow me to explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. What we're looking for is a culprit in the DS... (President: But it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.) So no party has anything to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can't let you go, because I don't want to release you two minutes' worth of replicas, but at first you're going to tell me what's wrong with the Rules of Procedure, what I did, and some other break. What did I do to hurt the Rules of Procedure? That's the point. () You have allowed the Vice President of the Government to speak offensively of the MPs, to threaten, to insult. Is that small? Is it not the DS's fault that you have no ability to respond to today's problems? We seek responsibility for agriculture, for education, for economy. You don't have a solution. Instead, we get insults, threats. It's not DS's fault. Balša Bozovic graduated from the same university as Aleksandar Vukic, but we will never be the opposition you were to us, I don't mean you personally. We throw arguments, not shoes. We're spilling facts, not water, and I'm not thinking about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23258	I get the point. This has already entered the replica. The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23259	I'm just asking for a little silence and don't take it away from me like a time until the joke calms down. Mr. President, I believe you've injured Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, because Article 109 is clear when a reminder can be made to the MP. I'm not sure there was any basis for any of the indents in article 109 to give notice. If you had made a warning, it would have been a good thing if you had said which indent, because then you would have absolutely seen that there was an unequal relationship between the chairman and the speaker of the Assembly and the participants in the debate. The fact is that on the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall apply to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. It is not the same attitude towards MPs and other participants, among other things, towards the first Deputy Prime Minister. That is why I believe that if someone mentions what concerns private life, facts and assessments relating to the private life of others, and the chairman does not act unanimously to the member of 109 other participants, and it is said that uneducated people who are graduate lawyers. Among other things, mentioning others, there was no mention of other persons, including Mr. Gilas. That is why, if we have one treatment for one and another treatment for another, there can be no talk of respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23260	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23261	I just picked up the phone. I apologize for not being present in the afternoon debate. I wanted to react to a part of the exposure I just heard. I don't think it's good, regardless of belonging to various political parties, authorities or opposition, that here in the Assembly we say that Serbia doesn't look like the state. I think it's harmful for all of us, that it's not good, because it seems to me that today is the only bad talk about Serbia itself in Serbia. I'm not saying it's ideal, but if we're not aware that we've made a major leap in Serbia's treatment, perception, the image of Serbia in Europe or in the world, then we have no argument that we are facing, but we are primarily dealing with inter-party competitions. In that sense, I cannot accept that formula that the government has experienced a debacle. It is precisely this government that has achieved perhaps the greatest success in the last 20 years, and these are – we have started negotiations on EU membership. Listening to some of these arguments, it seems to me that the Serbian government has now received sanctions. It seems to me that we are now in the worst possible situation, which objectively does not correspond to Serbia's international position. It is hard, it is to fight battles today, but we have more chances of winning those battles. Here today, yesterday, the day before yesterday, we fight, when it comes to local elections, that in KIM they are, as far as the election material is concerned, statusally neutral. We have a country on our side that we couldn't say before that it would press Pristina in that sense. So, no matter what, I would ask that when we speak, we have in mind that what we are talking about is also being seen by representatives of other countries. You shouldn't speak ill of your country, no matter who's in power. I have to say this is the longest discussion of one government in the history of the multi-party system, I think. It takes three days. This is the third day. You know, we've been choosing governments for one or two days, and there's no problem with our having as long as there are registered debaters, but I'd really like to ask you to get back on the subject, that we can finish this job today, that practically from tomorrow, the Serbian government can work at full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23262	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23263	Article 27. Try to agree within the parliamentary majority or with parties that make up the coalition government about how we will conduct the discussion. We very consciously want to allow other MPs to participate in this debate. We don't report to the Rules of Procedure, except in those situations where we're forced to. I agree with the fact that the representatives of the government who can participate in the debate and should participate and make it more concrete and circumstantial in their views. I would ask you to talk to the Prime Minister about the way he uses his right, because the findings that we are speaking ill of Serbia here through the debate should give a different context. I agree it doesn't lead to anything, but if you compare yourself to something, then you set yourself against the goals that you, as the ruling majority here in parliament, set before you a year ago. There is no point in proving the value of this government through the fact that it has received, it offends us, the date of the start of negotiations with the EU in 2013, and not our Government in 2001. In 2001, we were in a state of unproclaimed war, because we wanted Serbia in Europe, and the obstacle was mainly the parties that today accept our policy. So, just do, if you need some consultations, I agree that people are tired, especially I draw attention to the behaviour of representatives of the ruling coalition who participate here in the debate, who must distinguish the opposition. In opposition to the SPO that will vote for the government, in opposition to the DSS, which for its own reasons does not support the government and we. So now they don't look for themselves in every opposition statement, let it be concrete. If it's not concrete, we'll go into a debate that won't do you any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23264	The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic. He's not here. The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23265	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, candidates for ministers, unfortunately, I can't say ladies and gentlemen candidates for ministers because no lady is there, so we are, and we will see how it will be in the future, whether she will have any consequences. Unfortunately, I don't have a lot of time, our MP group left a little bit, and I'm going to try to say everything I wanted to say a little faster. First of all, and in my opinion, the government's reconstruction took too long. It is, in my deep conviction, a luxury that we should not have allowed ourselves, given the economic and social moment in which our country is located. Also, after three days of debate, it is not clear to me at all what criteria were for staying, or leaving individual ministers. This isn't just one rhetorical question. I really think that this is a very important issue, because in the end it will define both the work and the answer to that question will define the work of future ministers. I also wanted to answer to Mr. Vukic, unfortunately he's not here right now, but that doesn't stop me from telling him-- that, Mr. Vukic, in Serbia today, he's living extremely hard. As you know, I come from the union. I have no need for politics or pathetics. I don't have a need and I don't want to say that this government is guilty of both the state and the workers and the citizens, but I want to say that all of those previous policies are very bad and very wrong, which we have in recent decades, has led to unfortunately that we in Serbia today have a million unemployed. We have a pensioner on one employee, we have half a million people working in the public sector and the state administration, and unfortunately only one in 24 employees is someone who is a production worker. I don't know if you do, but this data places Serbia in an undeveloped African state. We are a country where the lowest profits in the environment, in which the minimum earnings are convincingly the lowest. We're a country where about 300,000 people receive the right to make a minimum profit, so somewhere around 20,000 dinars. - Chairman. Time. ) We are a country where 57,000 people in tram restructuring companies are waiting for June 2014, and we are a country where the same employees do not have health insurance. I don't want to bother you, because it's really not pleasant and it's probably boring most of the time, but I was with these workers a few days ago, I was in Rakovica, (President: I'm just asking you to finish up after you've been over your time for 40 seconds. I just want to say that the situation is bad. The situation requires reforms. Essential reforms, it may not make sense that I, as someone who comes from the union, speak, but without reforms and the PIO Fund, and health and education, and all parts of our society, which is the policy that Serbian workers need, which will lead to new investments... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23266	The President. Thank you. I really need to interrupt. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23267	Dear President, honourable members of the government and candidates for future ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a member of the Bosniak People's Party and a member of the SNS parliamentary group, I will say more about Prime Minister Dacic's exhibition on equal regional development. In that exposé, I would say shyly, that is mentioned, and I believe that this is the essence of Serbia's future development because if we develop all parts of Serbia, it will be better for the whole state as well. During this morning's debate, several colleagues from Novi Pazar from other political parties mentioned some problems concerning Sandzak or, some say, the Raška districts, although the two terms do not apply to the same territory. I would say these municipalities can also be called the municipalities of southwestern Serbia. It is not primarily what term we use, but how we deal with problems accumulated in the region. The truths of the matter need to be fair and to say that these problems were not produced by this government, that they had accumulated in previous years and culminated in the mandate of the previous government and those MPs who talked about it should have said so. However, a year ago when this government first sought trust here and when, and then tonight, I will also give support to the reconstructed Government of Prime Minister Dacic, I did not talk about this at the time, but I believe that after a year and especially after the reconstruction, which I think will be successful and that the reconstructed Government will deliver even better results. It is also necessary to be honest and say whether someone belongs to the position or to the opposition, that it is not true that nothing has changed for the better. It's a long list if we were to now list what all this government has made progress in, but it's not enough. From the position of the region where I come from, I have to say that, for example, in infrastructure, the state of travel asphaltity is only 30% of the average in the Republic, that the economic activity has practically died and that the real sector is practically gone, that under the top of the government at the highest level, the Prime Minister and especially the first Deputy Prime Minister, since SNS personnel are covering these resolutions, it must take the most serious care of this, not to let such discussions pass and that MPs from regional parties and minority parties get five minutes to say what they have and to continue everything in the old and to keep the problems piled up and put under the rug. So it is essential that we all, regardless of which parties we belong and which nations we come from, we also include that with the top of the government, we form a working group, which will work seriously and systematically, because the problems in Sandzak are burdened, in such a chaotic state, when you have an average in that region of over 60% of unemployment, when young people, if it hadn't been for the West, and going to temporary work in the Western countries, would have practically been starving in that region if it hadn't been for Western Europe. If we put these problems off again and do nothing seriously, I think it is no wonder that no one knows who is involved in politics in the region, nor who is dealing with religious issues, and if we add that the basic constitutional principle of equal representation of national minorities in the state bodies, especially in the police and the judiciary, is still extremely drastic at the expense of the Bosniak people and that in all the campaigns of all the parties seeking Bosniak votes, they promise, and that after the formation of the government, little is done about it. I think we're just going to deepen these problems and give space to different extremists who are then no wonder they're trying to use these real problems and in every way trying to destabilise this area and, I say, cancel out everything that we've been doing for years, the representatives of that region have been trying to do here both in Parliament and in government. Given the limited time and that the SNS parliamentary group was extremely correct and that some MPs gave up the discussion so that I could talk, I will not talk about this anymore today, because I expect to speak to both the prime minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister and other ministers, of course. Once again, I say that the Bosniak People's Party will support this reconstruction and that in the day of voting, hopefully tonight, we will vote. We expect this government to correct all the mistakes made by previous governments and to pay due and serious attention to this region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23268	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23269	Dear Mr. President, the honourable members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here the choir is ready, the protocol prepared, the ceremony is about to begin, and in this final word I will not interfere with this solemn mood, but rather, as the last in a series of speakers, in front of the parliamentary group of the URS, I want a constructive contribution, perhaps a bit of an advisory character, to round up that word by the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Mr. Predrag Markovic, started at the beginning of this presentation. I will begin by recalling an anecdote from the life of the blissful episcopist of the forest eparchy, the revealed bishop of the forest sava, who was an exceptional personality, not only in his archeological service, but also in the Faculty of Law taught canonical law and a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. According to the anecdotes, his tanacity had once the opportunity to explain to the clergy the formation of the Serbian Orthodox Church, to use the metaphor, Christ is the power plant, we rulers are far-reaching, and one of the priests asked – consecrated, and what are we priests here? And he says, you see, you're just a bunch of gangsters. I think you understand that this offensive intention was not, that his pre-enlightenment is jealous and caring for clergy and does not offend anyone, and neither are you, when I "mutatis mutandis" in the same case, replacing what can be replaced, I say – Serbian citizens and their will are power plants, we folk MPs are far-reaching, and you, gentlemen Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are bandits. In the sense that a heavy burden of responsibility is placed on you, a responsibility beyond your means. I especially say this to candidates for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who I particularly welcome on behalf of the Urs Business Group and I congratulate them, especially those who do not have political experience and political biography, who, by their expert invitation to this Government, confirm the importance of the principle that is laid down in Serbia's political life by the very operation of the people of the URS, and you give us the right to do the same. Serbia is a state where there is a serious duality between real social power and state and political power. On the other hand, the Republic is mainly an ideality in the constitutional and legal Corps that exists in the state institutions and we hope for something more in the original state-of-the-art will of the citizens. You will indeed confirm it and create it if you do not accept what the media and the easy-minded public expect from you. We're looking for results. That's not the point of political work. The lazy mind states that only the result is important... (President: You have spent the time left on your parliamentary group. I'll let you finish, but no more than 20 seconds. ) Therefore, the path of reaching that result is equally important, so commitment to the call and task is often built into the foundations of the Republic more significant and lasting than an effect that has a political price. Count on the National Assembly and our parliamentary group, as a place in which only in all possible worlds will you be able to address the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23270	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23271	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Prime Minister, from the moment the reconstruction was mentioned, yet May of the month, I kept trying to address the logical issues of common sense that had been common to all statements by representatives of the ruling parties in the reconstruction, at the time, including the URS. These doubts are still not resolved in this room today, and the questions floating in the air are still unanswered. Why are you making a reconstruction, and is it software, personal or because it was badly done in the best government in Serbia's history? In your words, this is the best government, according to its historical role, of the Civilian Government of the South Council of 1805, the leader of Karadjordz and prot. Matija Nenadovic. Only then, the Soviets fought against the occupation of their territory and made management when they freed the territory, and you allowed in your occupied territory, KIM, foreigners and Albanians to build their own state and their administration on our territory. It's a serious difference and you can hardly be the best government of the Ruler's Council or any other government. You agreed to something other governments did not agree to, or the government of Vojislav Kostunica. For the Democrats, I'm not sure they would agree. If this government is so good, why are you changing it? If not, tell us at last what you're not satisfied with? We still haven't heard what you're not happy about. The only good thing, maybe the only good thing we've supported is fighting corruption. It is a political will to go with the fight where it stands in 2007. Special praise should be given to the police, the people most responsible, and this is police director Veljovic and KP Milovic, who have been there since the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Minister Jocic, who have come as professional, non-political people, who have remained the basis of the fight against corruption until today. Answering the question why are we changing certain ministers we didn't get. Are you changing Dinkic because of the poor budget, poor economic policy, taxes on gardens, stables and other things around the house, poor economic policies, poor subsidies or due to party conflicts? In some ways today you discovered a secret that you were dissatisfied with economic policy and that he was doing everything on his own, but we didn't hear it until today. Do you change Minister Mrkonjic because of the 9.2 km highway last year, which is the worst in Europe, where the average is 40 km, or do you change Mrkonjic because he has a weaker back in the SPS? Tell us why you're changing him. You said you were changing Zarko Obradovica, so I carefully forced myself to listen to the interview yesterday because it was politically unsustainable after the fall of a small graduation that he remained a minister. Since the reconstruction, you have amnested the presidents of the government's parties, and this fact tells us that this reconstruction is not fundamental and is not in line with the results of work in individual ministries. We are not satisfied with the work of Minister Krkobibić. In the last 13 months, he has honored the Assembly to come, and on the Committee of Resorbs. We are not satisfied that we do not have a plan, that we have not received a standard protection programme for the most vulnerable categories of citizens in Serbia, which no one in the Assembly has said on that subject. There were two budgets and two rebalances, and we didn't hear the word on the subject. And in my humble belief, with apologies for sitting here and looking at us, next to them, the most endangered category of the population in Serbia is those young people who have no job and who have no hope of getting that job in due time, who are waiting for these pensions to live on, to get some allowance from them, and that they might be able to pay some rent for an apartment. The most dangerous category is those young people who live with their parents and sleep with brothers or sisters in a room who don't have a job for up to 35 years. These are the people we need to worry about, and they're the ones that are the most endangered category. Therefore, we need to keep in mind how we deal with these problems. So this reconstruction should be called the real name, which is that it is extremely personal, that it is not even programmable, that the objectives of this reconstruction are the objectives of continuing continuity with the policy that has been conducted in the last 13 months. Instead of Mladjan Dinkic, you will introduce Lazar Krstic who will continue to implement what Mladjan Dinkic thought. Because Lazar Krstic is not a politician, he came as an expert, and Mladjan Dinkic was still a politician and thought of some policy. But you don't have government consent to that either. This reconstruction will only be a continuation of one policy that has been led in each respect for the past 13 months, both towards the EU and economic policy. At this point, we cannot expect and have not heard in your exposé the answers to questions that are very important to Serbia, which is – what about Sartide? How will you solve the problem “Sartida”? You once mentioned it was another adventure by Mladjan Dinkic. How are you going to solve this problem? What about the accumulated problems in the economy? Do you have any concrete answers? We didn't hear anything. That's why we, as DSS, think it's important at this point to make the difference and discontinuity with the policy that you've been leading so far and it's important to achieve at least one of the principles of your original exposé, which is that our biggest and most difficult problem facing the demographic issue, stopping the biological fallout, extinction of the nation and creating conditions for the rise of the people's life force, is within the most vulnerable category of people, who are young people, who are forced to watch a reality show because they don't have a job, have no perspective. This is what is most important for us from the DSS and that is why we expect you, Mr Dacic and your people, to create discontinuity with the politics of Mladjan Dinkic. Did we criticize her? Is that a continuation of the economic policy of the DS? You should also do something about reforming the pension system, health reform and see how you solve problems. We didn't get those answers today. I expect that in some due time you will come here when there is budget rebalancing and that you will give us an answer to at least one specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23272	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23273	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the third day, the truth is, we've been discussing the reconstruction of the government. We went into the night again, but we had a debate that was also intense at times. Of course, two parties – SNS and DS exchanged arguments. I'd say it's the responsibility of the authorities to allow her to hear the criticism the opposition is giving her and not to see it as an outpouring of hatred or any other feeling that should not be an epithet in politics at all. Since the main ruling party has often returned to the past, I once said that I would not want to talk about the past, about our modern history, and the SNS has been running away from the present, I will go back eight centuries. Perhaps the words of Theognid Megarin, who, when he realized the state of his State of Polis, which he considered to be an act of all principles of good and measured rule, said, or wrote: “Those who are in power are scarred and blinded, and our people continue to look naively at democracy. I could never dream that the state would trust its fate in their hands." Unfortunately, many of these words, written by Theegnid at the time, that is, could reflect the current situation in Serbia, as if he were sitting in this room an hour ago. Unfortunately, the least we've heard from the government's representatives is what this government is up to, what plan it has to draw Serbia out of the crisis it is in, whether by the guilt of the current government or by the previous authorities. But, gentlemen, you've been in power for 13 months. The exhibit, which we heard yesterday, on Saturday, by Mr Arsic, as the authorised representative of the SNS, was primarily about the previous authorities, the authorities in which the current pillars of the coalition were. However, how can we be politically correct and not engage in unambiguous debates, sometimes imposed by the position? How can it be correct for ministers who need to perform the post in the coming period, some of whom have political experience and some do not? Perhaps in a similar way, as some MPs have said, I could say that some political representatives entering the government do not have enough professional experience and that their only reference is party biography. It would be difficult for me to judge future ministers who are non-partisan, how will they find the heavy burden left to them by the previous one, but the government that is being reconstructed, and will it manage to deal with these problems? I wouldn't want to read their biographies and judge on the basis of it. In any case, there are individuals who would be good team players in a government where there would be a team and there would be a selector. There's a colleague who works with me at college, and I know they're very high-quality and dedicated to their profession. However, I am afraid that the selectors have not been at the level of the task so far and that we understand each other immediately, most of this government, and so far and so far, are SNS ministers. The selection team was Mr. Vukic, and it is not possible that he is not responsible for the fact that most of that team is changing. So, apparently, he made a mistake in electing a minister to lead this country. We'd like it not to be wrong at this moment and try to correct what the previous ministers did wrong. I won't be long, one more minute, but I have to say that a very bad condition has been left. Health care, lack of medication, stents, basic equipment. In school, in science, where the situation is also bad. There's nothing better in agriculture. We have the fact that our exports have been reduced due to the poor management of this ministry, due to non-recovery with aflatoxin. They had this problem and other countries, so they solved it on time. On the other hand, we had a problem and we haven't even solved the area of realisation of investments. Only investments launched by the previous government are almost realised. We have a number of problems in other ministries as well. The Ministry of Energy, as well as the field of environmental science, could say that it's totally abandoned. When we count all of this and when we provide statistics on the drop in purchasing power, on the decline in citizens' standards, on higher taxes, on higher VAT, on the fact that freedoms are being reduced, on reducing the independence of institutions. I will end up with a sentence that is a paradigm for the way Mr. Vukic solves problems, as far as media freedoms and two public services are concerned. We pointed out the fact that it's not good for the state to lose public service independence. When we pointed out that, Mr. Vukic said - I invited people from the RT Vojvodina, yes, we'll pay them three back salaries, and we'll solve some other problems. It's not the goal of the Deputy Prime Minister calling editors or directors of media houses, so he promises them something that belongs to them anyway. This collapses the independence of institutions and, if done in other areas, unfortunately, there is no progress. In the end, I would tell the government, the Prime Minister and the first vice president to listen to the opposition and not to take criticism as malicious attacks, but to try to extract what could be used by the government in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23274	Replica, in front of the parliamentary group, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23275	I suppose that when Mr. Janko Veselinovic spoke of power and awe, blindness, he probably remembered the time with the set before May 2012 and the time when DS seemed the backbone of the government and the backbone of the government. When he spoke of lack of responsibility, I would remind him whether both those responsible and blind are reconstructing because they think and think that Serbia as a society and we as a people deserve better, we deserve stronger, we deserve more, we deserve more knowledge. I am grateful to the people who were and participated in the government until this reconstruction because they worked more vigorously, better and more honestly, much more honestly than the former governments did. Let's remind ourselves of where Goran Knezevic is now and where Sasha Dragin was until today. And that comparative will be enough to confirm how devoted they are and how honest these people have worked. I don't know what professional experience these people have, candidates for ministers because there is no job being said – the minister. And a party biography, so I'd like to know Mr. Radulovic's party biography, Mr. Lazar Krstic, Mr. Vanje Udovic. What party biography is that? But there's only one thing you need to know, we're going to look beyond the borders of our country for experts and people we give and show trust, and we think they're going to work and make a move in that area, and they're going to look beyond our country's borders, and we're going to look in Europe, but we're never going to look in Namibia and in those countries where you bring your party champions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23276	Replica, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23277	There's no better proof that what I was saying was really appropriate. I was even prepared to say that the opposition sometimes behaves so that it collects points perhaps in a way that is not adequate, but the opposition is always allowed to do so in each parliament. Just remember, gentlemen, what you've done through your political careers in various political parties. I wouldn't want to be offensive and descend to the level that you are now descending on, trying to send new insults to the DS account. We say once again, we are ready to support and propose legal acts and give another chance. But you gentlemen have already spent more than a quarter of your mandate. The results are missing. The statistics mentioned here today are not in favor. They're bad indicators. Once again, I ask you not to seek, in opposition, an enemy, but a conversation that points to your inconsistencies, a bad move, but that does not trip you. The Democratic Party has never been such a party, it will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23278	Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23279	We can talk another way. It's a pleasure to talk to you another way. Let's talk about Belgrade a little bit. Let's talk a little bit about Belgrade and responsibility. The theme is responsibility. You've been treating this government for three, four days with a lack of investment. There's no investment. What investments did you and Mr. Gilas bring to Belgrade, and here in Belgrade you are in power, not for a year, not a quarter of your mandate, but a whole mandate and a quarter of that next term. Where are those investments? Where are the jobs? You also paid due respect to the under-departmentation and when I was talking about the department here when the law on public enterprises was passed, I said – it's not enough, but it's a first step. And what did you do in Belgrade? Who runs Belgrade public enterprises? Who runs the Belgrade water and sewerage, for example. Vice-President of the Democratic Party City Committee. In all public enterprises are your political colleagues and political counterparts. Which you are talking about and what you expect from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and of the nine candidates for ministers, more than half of them are non-partisan personalities, when all you have been able to centralize in Belgrade and draw into one register and into the hands of a man named Dragan Gilas, you have done so. What you could put out of party personnel, you set up party personnel, and you honor us with these wonderful people who are forced by your profession to be great ministers and to be great cabinet members. Please, where you have a responsibility, don't forget to legislate in that way, not in the way you look at everyone's eyes, and you won't see a toothpick or a balvana. (President: Time. ( ) What about your responsibility where you've had it for five years?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23280	Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just to determine Janko Veselinović, the replica, Mr Trnavčević, you have reached out to the Rules of Procedure, then he is the first Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23281	Article 27. I don't think when it's over, no one's gonna be particularly proud of what's been going on, but I'm not going into political evaluations. Why am I intervened? In his previous address, Mr Babic said a very dangerous thing that I think you should warn him about, I don't mean in a formal sense, but that would no longer happen. He said about firing Mr. Knezevic and Mr. Dragin, he's talking about where Mr. Knezevic is today and where Mr. Dragin is today. I must also remind Mr Babic and this entire parliament that those who have been in custody, are in custody, are not convicted persons, and the fact is that Mr. Knezevic or Mr. Dragin were in custody or under some other measure does not prejudge their guilt, and I ask you not to say that this is true of their honesty. That's exactly what you said, Mr. Babice, and it was my only ambition at this point, to intervene because I think we're poisoning the atmosphere without any need.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23282	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23283	Mr. President, I think you're responsible for this session today taking place like this and entering the third day. If you add up the time spent in these three days, it will be seen that these party outwits, the God-awful injuries of the Rules of Procedure, are spent around 40% of the time. We came here to agree on a revision, I purposely say a revision, not a reconstruction of the Serbian government, and this is a place to negotiate, and many of the ruling majority or opposition parties have used this as a reason to talk about some other issues. A little while ago, Mr. Vucic, who left, he and Samardzic, like in tennis, five equals, gave each other five reps. I really don't have the patience for this kind of work at home. This is not a place for party outwittings, and that's why elections, election campaigns, TV duels and other places, and here to discuss important folk affairs. Please keep that in mind, let the representatives and chiefs of the parliamentary clubs keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23284	Thank you for the intervention, but you know that when someone is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have to give it to the Rules of Procedure and I'm trying to prevent abuse, but as far as I'm concerned, we'll see, of course. Mr. Veselinović, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23285	I won't answer this question again, I was just about to say what Mr. Trnavcevic said otherwise. In this House, it's true, we've been discussing the reconstruction of the government for three days. However, SNS and vice-president Vucic spoke more about the exercise of power in Belgrade than about what they will do for the Republic of Serbia, because certainly the functioning of the Belgrade city depends on how the central government behaves. Let us not forget that the acts adopted by the National Assembly of Serbia, in this term, above all, have reduced the will of the majority the significant revenues of local self-government, and the city of Belgrade has been damaged by billions and that is decentralisation. Again, I am going back to the fact that it is not here to discuss the Belgrade City Assembly, it is across the street, here we are discussing the future government of the Republic of Serbia that you are reconstructing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23286	National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23287	Let me tell you that this whole debate, these two, three days apart from a few bright moments today, has actually not made any light on what's going on here and the questions that my party's predecessors have been asking, I'm going to try again in a few minutes, because I think that's good. First, what kind of reconstruction is this? This is not a political reconstruction and a program reconstruction, because you don't change politics or the program. That's the first and the most basic thing. It's just a personal reconstruction, and in a structural sense, very thin, because it's shown to what extent to reach the Ministry Act. So if you have decided on this kind of reconstruction with a months-long halabuk and media preparation of this bright, cheerful, and superb event that we are attending today, you need to answer the question of what is it for. I can't know it better than you do, but my place here and what the citizens in front of the DSS chose me for, it gives me the right to interpret it. So, you're in the exposé, Mr. Prime Minister, saying that in 13 months of government work, not much has been achieved and that's the summary of your exposé. You also said that something was done and done. In that segment, we have agreed before that really this pace of fighting corruption, something that we have supported and organized crime, with a question, of course, whether it is comprehensive and whether it is indistinguishable to the end, and there are some stains left, and in some previous discussions we talked about. So for this second one, there are simply indicators. Who was interested in starting a reconstruction, an entire reconstruction, a personal one in the government, to change ministers? Someone who was essentially unhappy with the effects of 13 months. I'm not sure, maybe it was you, Mr. Dacic, but I think it was the SNS first. After all, the SNS partner, in this government, are the partners who brought to terms this government an unfavorable state and the whole disaster that we are talking about today from different seats. So, in the area of finance, economy, GDP, unemployment and everything else. It didn't fall from Mars, you didn't inherit it, Mr. Dacic, I speak figuratively, because it's known to be a political assessment, you brought it to the SNS dowry. No one can convince me that you or your political party are behind the idea of reconstruction, but most likely stands for the SNS to change that. Then at the same time, accounts are cleared between all of you and in that clearing you come out as the formal winner of the day. Practically removes someone who, in your opinion, bothered, and today you openly admit that in Mladjan Dinkic you saw serious interference in the functioning of the system, and that is all. So, the whole hallabuca, the whole story of a new beginning, the reset of a level, to tell the gamer's dictionary, it's all empty stories, and what does that cover? This covers, first of all, everything that has been a deficit in the last 13 months, you're giving yourself a chance to start a new start and of course you're trying to sort of cover those commitments that we talked about today, like the elections in Kosovo and the answers to the obligations of the agreement you signed. By the way, that's the best thing he can say about which way you're going. I really don't want to get into it. Whether certain ministers or candidates for ministers will be able to do the job, whether one of them, and for example, Mr. Tasovac, will take a step in the area of culture, which I hope and wish for, because believe me, my hope is not that you are doing bad and that you break all of this, my hopes are entirely on the other side, and you have to understand that. No attack coming from this side is malicious, but we point out that the path you're going, that's what Mr. Vukic was talking about, and you mentioned it, you asked for support for the electoral path you're moving. What we pointed to you and today Mr Samardzic spoke of it, the path you are moving is not right. If your initial premises are wrong, then the whole story is raw. That's the essence of the story. You want the EU because you have shown us that it has no alternative, because we tell you that the alternative exists and that the search for an alternative is dialogue, that the alternative is not to exclude anyone, that the alternative is not on the run or in antagonism towards the EU, but in new forms of co-operation, that the alternative to avoiding the bullets that you have the second you enter the formal accession process, and that where and where more relaxed solutions to trade co-operation and other models are found, there is no such thing. If it wasn't for that, you wouldn't have put up with the pressure, and you admitted to putting up with it today. Alexander Vukic, today he admitted to putting up with the pressure. For a specific type or way of resolving issues in Kosovo and Metohija, the whole problem arises both with Kosovo and Metohija and the way you try to do it. No one here is foolish that we should now make antagonism with everyone and stick our head in the sand in front of some real facts. But you're not doing well. The point of the message is that it can do better and the essence of the message is that we were all unique in that attitude, we would have a different relationship with us. If we were at a crucial moment, thinking rationally and not irrationally - for the EU, against the EU, I hate the EU, if we had a different system of work, if we had functioned differently, if we had thought rationally then we would have come to rational conclusions if we could measure what is useful, what is harmful and so would be done. So the point of the story here is that you choose the wrong way and you have nothing from this reconstruction. Maybe someone in some vault will take a step. You might be able to maintain financial stability. You might be able to take some small steps forward. Maybe. It's not something I don't want to happen, quite the opposite. But you will certainly have a strategic problem, you will enter into it through negotiations with the EU, if it ever does, you will see only then how much deficit we are as a state, and with these people we could have talked to differently and better. (President: Time. I'm done. It's a message from our side, which is why we said that instead of being crushed like that, better choices are to solve your problems that way and all of us, than what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23288	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23289	Dear colleagues, we are at the end of this debate obviously and my intervention will be addressed to economic and financial issues. There's not much time for maybe some rhetorical figures, and Mr. Prime Minister, I'm talking to him because it's obvious that we have really one double without a helm, we have one other prime minister, who, on many issues, was much more precise than the one that formally bears that title today. First of all, I'm going to ask a few specific questions, four questions about your impact during the first 13 months of this government and five questions concerning the exposé, i.e. Perspectives, because I think these three days of debate rightly opens up many of the misunderstandings in our people, because at the end of this debate, pensioners don't know whether pensions will be frozen or not, we don't know what will happen in attracting investment. Basically, we don't have a single answer to the important questions that concern our country's future, so I go first to the question of your impact. I'm not going to talk about what was in the first exposé, except for two things, since, Mr. Prime Minister, you personally singled them out and I think you were right as two key things for our country's future. You have rightly said that the central long-term matter and question for our country is that our people disappear. Population policy, believe me, DS would support any measure that would go that way. I may have missed something, but I have to tell you that for the first 13 months, we haven't registered a single concrete measure of any larger gauge that would help us be more. Even, you refused what was the DS initiative to lift VAT on baby equipment and we saw and there was the Ministry of Finance and Business at the last minute admitted their own mistake, the services did not want to refund VAT on baby equipment if parents decided to buy even before that joyous event. So that's the first question, why didn't you do anything in the domain of population policy? The second question, you rightly said, the hand to heart you repeated on this second of your repeated exposé, that the issue of economics and finance is crucial. It is not disputed that this current crisis in many ways makes your work more difficult, as does the work of any government that would be in our place and governments, especially on the old continent. But still, we can't figure out why you didn't do more, that purchasing power, especially those in the most invisible material position, isn't being a little bit more protected. The purchasing power dropped by 6% on average, but no concrete measure was taken to protect the purchasing power of those with the most invisible material position. The fact is that out of the recordmakers in attracting foreign investment, our country is now at the beginning, with 2 billion euros in investments in 2011, it was only 200 last year, let's split it half-half, because the previous government was until mid-year, and you've been from the beginning, and for this year, as well as my memory serves, for the first half we're at about 400 million euros, nothing more, so we're far from the 10 billion euros a year and from the 2 billion euros that were in yours, i.e. in the exposé of the previous minister, the current finance and economy minister, and I think you owe us an explanation why you were not more effective in, above all, attracting investments. We welcome Etihad, but since we haven't been able to get the contract, I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, to deliver a co-operation agreement between JAT and Etihad to all of us. As far as I've been told by the authorities at JAT, for now, the deal with Etihad means that with 1200 employees, there will be only 200 of them. A number of them will become new pensioners, and we know that it is already 1.7 million pensioners and the question is, what will happen to other people and what is the perspective and what are the financial obligations that our country has made in this arrangement, which we support? It would be good to be clear in that domain. So much for impact, we could do it for a long time, but I don't have time, because I think, and it's important that we turn to the future. You, Mr. Dacic, are one of the most experienced politicians in this room today, and no one can challenge your skill and capacity to answer any question through some inner political stories, but it cannot essentially justify this empty, without any desire to offend you, speech. I tried, with the best intention of going through one specific measure that we could then check, to see if you were successful in what you suggested or not. This came down to general places, to the good wishes of all RS citizens. The fact is that regulation must be meaningful, and that is already mentioned, that what makes sense and many other things that only announce that you will have short-term, medium-term measures. I think it's very thin after 13 months in the most responsible position. You are not elected directly by the people, at least formally speaking by our Constitution the position of the Prime Minister bears the greatest responsibility and greatest authority. So let me ask five questions about our future because I have not seen the answers to these questions in the exhibition. First question - will there be an agreement with the IMF or not? The first Deputy Prime Minister also said in his only official appearance, the future finance minister said he would. One important member of your coalition, PUPS, said that as far as they're concerned, it should be an urban policy, in Hungary, and for citizens who don't know it -- they just paid off the last debt they have to the IMF and shut down their office. That's what I'm asking, because as the first vice president himself said a few weeks ago, months ago, when there were some discussions about the arrangement, that as far as he's concerned, the IMF is too strict because he's also asking for a nominal reduction in wages and pensions. I don't think you'll be mad if I ask you – what's it going to be? Will there be an agreement with the IMF or the freezing of pension salaries and in what form? Maybe you have some ideas about how to do it or maybe you don't. Another question for you – what will you do in active employment. The rebalancing voted against our votes here has lifted all active employment measures. At this point in the RS budget, 51.2% of young people who do not have a job have nothing in the budget to help them be employed. Are we gonna stay in this situation or not? The third question, when you're talking about consolidation and you're here as Government, you said, which we support, that you need to relieve the worker, and on the other hand you didn't tell us if you're going to increase VAT, whether you're going to reduce the burdened worker, in which form, and whether you're going to increase VAT. The fourth question is the investor issue. And you, Mr. Prime Minister and the first vice president, said he couldn't sit and wait for the investors to come. I'm asking you, if that's the case, why did you choose Mr. Radulovic against whom I have absolutely nothing, but if you can't do it without each other, because it's the political mathematics of the majority in parliament, because I don't have answers in your exposé. I was looking for what was available. It's his blog. I'll quote you his blog this year. This is, if I'm not wrong in July of this year – foreign investors do not make up the economy, nor will they save our economy. They don't need to be chased. They are not the main and only economic policy of our government. They're the cream on the cake, and we miss the cake. Does this mean that the future minister of the economy will abolish the "SEPU", the agency that implements it, will you lift subsidies to attract the investor or not? What's your policy? On the second blog in June of the month, I say that because I have no information, he said – we do not need deindustralisation, and you said that we need it and we are in the DS at our position, and we suggested in our plan to get out of the crisis in March of this year, that we need it. We no longer need subsidies to revive the economy. He says everything should be sent into bankruptcy and not allow the merger of "IDEA" and "Merkator", as if it were not part of the work of independent regulatory agencies, not of some minister. The last question I have for you is what you have announced in terms of restructuring. Of these 179 companies, will you shut them down, take them into bankruptcy. A dramatic reduction of subsidies for the Railway has been announced. We all know they're going to pay. How many people are going to lose their jobs in these restructuring companies and how much will they lose in public enterprises? I asked you nine questions. Please respond specifically to some of them. Maybe this isn't so important, because as far as we can see in the political sense of dissension between you, it's so likely that this is all temporary and that we're going to have some other prime minister and some other formation in March next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23290	Mr. Milisavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23291	Mr. President of the Assembly, respected members of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs, as professor of the faculty and president of the Committee on Health and Family and Chairman of the Committee on Health DS, I want to point out that for three days we have been talking about different topics and we haven't talked about the most important subject, in my opinion, which is not politics but life, and this is the health system in Serbia and in the exposé alone on page nine, and here I saw where you said we needed small but large steps in order to stay out of the amputated appendicitis. The appendix is two words you only mentioned in medicine and in health care. I want to point out to the citizens of RS that we certainly don't want to be a appendix, let alone an infected appendix in Europe. I want to point to a state of health in Serbia that is very bad. My dear Serbian citizens are not the problem in Serbia to get sick. In Serbia, it is a problem to heal. It is something that is greater than any policy and requires and requires the unification of all parties in order to address the problems of our system of health that exist 30 years ago. I don't want to accuse this government or this resolute ministry. I want to point out the problems that exist and the problems that no one wants us to change. Today, Serbia's health system has been assessed by NHCI and European Help Convulsion Index polls as the worst healthcare in Europe. Serbia is classified as the last Economic Council in Dallas. Serbia is the first in Europe to die from cardiovascular disease and at the top of the mortality of malignant tumours in Europe. It is a red alarm for each of us to contribute to the start of health care and that the health care that has been destroyed due to economic sanctions due to poor economic standards, due to poor human resources in the health ministry for 20 years, for crime and corruption in the health system, to start health care and start solving problems. I'll give you a few problems that are big and exist. Today in Serbia, he is waiting for cataract surgery. Last year, I opened this topic in parliament and there were 20,000 citizens of Serbia waiting for cataract surgery. Today, there are 24,000 Serbian citizens waiting for cataract surgery. Can't we find solutions to buy these lenses and get our oldest citizens out and let these citizens see? Serbian citizens have become a nation's starch through poor reform of dental practices. We have a slowly blind and slowly scribbled nation. There are problems on the waiting list, which have become fashion. It's waiting literally for everything. He's waiting for surgery. He's waiting for the scanners. He's waiting for magnetic resonances. He's waiting for ultrasound tests. I will tell you Serbian citizens that most of them are waiting for corrupt doctors who have private practices and who use state institutions to abuse their position and direct us citizens to their private offices. I draw attention to this issue of state and private health, and I advocate that we finally resolve it legally, that there is no possibility that someone is working in the state, so in the morning they share their business cards of their private office and that they send poor citizens to private offices where he sees 100 or 200 euros instead of a sick man. Legally solve this problem. Legally solve the problem by dissipating, if you want to work in private health well, but resign in the state sector. We are committed to equating private and public health, not being private healthcare now invisible and for private health care to be used only for the benefit of certain state doctors working in state institutions. What I'm trying to say is that we need to regulate treatment protocols. You are witnessing that every day you have a chance to hear that the doctor has made a mistake, so that the court has made a different decision. There are treatment protocols in Europe. When a treatment protocol is established, a doctor is required to treat it according to that protocol. If you have earburns, if you have tonsil inflammation, protocol says clearly which medicine should be taken. If an adequate operation is not done, if complications occur in that operation, if protocol is not respected, then it is easier for the judge himself to impose sanctions on the doctor. I would also draw attention to health corruption, which is present from the lowest to the highest level. It is present from the lowest level of corruption of a doctor who is relatively small, but who impairs the medical profession, the corruption of a doctor who seeks money for his services, so it goes to the fact that at the very top, in the early years, I can't argue now, but in earlier years, both the Republic Fund and the Ministry of Health, certain tenders have been set up for some percentages, so it's very important that we prevent this corruption. There are seven programs we should do, but since my MP group has a little more time, I'm going to slowly finish this exhibit of mine. President, Mr Dacic, I will ask you to work together on the field of health reform, given that healthcare should not be a polygon of political bickering, but a common effort to help us try to get health care out of the crisis and that Serbian citizens have better and better quality health care that they do not have right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23292	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23293	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Stefanovic, at the beginning of asking you to respond, when I announce the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you answer that, not the Deputy Prime Minister, who is subfling you how to react. I don't think that's right, and you need to put order into this assembly. I understand he's your boss in the party, but you're the boss here or you're still not aware of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23294	Please don't lead the controversy with me because I'm not in a position to answer you, so I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23295	Well, if it's Mr. Wolf, then Gilas is a gentleman, not a tycoon and a billionaire. Please have the same arches for everyone. Thank you. When you proposed amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, you said this reconstruction was happening because you want to fix the result, and we say that this reconstruction happens exclusively for marketing reasons, because six months in Serbia is not talking about the economy or health care. It's not about the most important problems. In Serbia, life has stopped and there is only reconstruction and citizens have to listen exclusively to it. When the largest party of the coalition in the campaign said it would cut the number of ministries, i.e. collecting signatures for 12 ministries of the future government, thus receiving votes from the citizens, and then entering as a majority party in a coalition proposed by 15 ministries, you said there would be huge savings for the citizens and that it was due to cost cuts. In the reconstruction, you increase the number of ministries to 17, and today you suggest we choose 22 ministers, with four offices left. I'm asking you where the savings are today, and why is there no savings today, but the state administration is increasing? What is the most important issue in Serbia today, and we are not talking about it at all, but we are dealing exclusively, at least with the ruling majority, the attacks on the opposition, is the economy, the paying power of citizens who are getting smaller and smaller. What's disappointing, Mr. Dacic, is that there is no concrete measure in your exposé, there is not a single policy of economics that will change that situation. That's what we talked about months ago. We also criticised the increase in VAT and other tax and economic measures that were bad and we made other concrete proposals, and you didn't want to listen. Rarely accepted by the opposition's amendment. No opposition's legal proposal has been accepted. You were talking about the stability of the euro course, and I'm asking you today, if that euro is the same value as it was a year ago, how much milk can be bought for that one euro, how much can the citizens of Serbia buy, how much can they pay for that same euro this year, and how much could they last year? I'll remind you of the exact data available in the public, that the price of food has been increased by 13% compared to the previous year, that electricity has accumulated by 11%, that 30,000 employees, or 11 companies going bankrupt, remain unemployed, that three billion dinars of subsidies are not paid to farmers, that profits are actually reduced 6%. What you promised as the biggest party in the campaign, here's an eight-point program, you took it off the site. It is clear to me why the PUPS has made a coalition with the SNS, because it says here that pensions will be increased in point 4). That's what you promised the citizens of Serbia. You promised also to help mothers with four children and through that economic part of the program a new attitude towards banks that will not be able to take over lightly. I ask Mr. Krstic and Mr. Radulovic, since they have made proposals for the economic part of the government, do they agree with this SNS programme, which this party received citizens' votes in the elections? Are you going to do it? Since we've heard that there will be belt tightening, how will the belt tighten if pension increases, how does this programme or not increase pensions, which is more likely and the citizens will again be deceived? As they were deceived last year, they're being deceived today. You have not answered key issues concerning the economy in Serbia, key issues raised in the public -- will there be additional responsibilities, will VAT increase, will there be another rebalancing? You haven't even answered the questions we've been asking for the past month. What about the hotel on the bathroom? Why was he sold with a direct contract of 600,000 euros lower than the government paid for it? We heard from the ruling majority's representatives that some jobs will be opened in Serbia because the hotel is sold below the price. How many jobs, when and where? Where's the contract for this sale? Vresca vineyards, too. You spoke of it, Prime Minister. When will the responsibility be determined? Why do you keep quiet about that? We understand Mr. Vukic, he is not seriously involved in anything other than defiled DS and opposition. That's what he's been doing for the last few years. We'd like this government to be successful and you say it'll only be good if it's successful. We think it will not be good because it does not have a policy that can help Serbia. We criticise it and propose better solutions and we are sure that the citizens of Serbia will recognise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23296	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23297	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I like to listen to the inspired speeches of my colleagues from the former regime. Some times they really delight me, but it seems to me that some time and when someone's denying them, they forget it very quickly, so they continue with the old story. I would remind my colleague that the SNS has been collecting signatures to reduce the number of MPs, but, as you know, you must agree with that, since it takes a two-thirds majority in parliament to reduce the provision of a constitution that determines the number of MPs in the National Assembly. When inflation and the exchange rate of the euro are mentioned, I can say that rarely which government can boast that inflation at the six-month level was 2% this year. Did that go hand in hand to a previous government? Don't tell the truth any more that the food has been collected according to the sheets, because according to official data, we've had a deflation in the last few months when food is at 4%. It's official data. When it comes to alleged concern for farmers, I can say that this budget, even the one with the rebalancing and the estimated and nominal amount, is greater than the agrarian budget envisioned by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Also, the first Deputy Prime Minister at this session today provided information that 94% of planned funds from the agrarian budget have been paid by Sunday and that all 100% will be paid today or tomorrow. The concern for farmers is very interesting when someone is taking care of it because someone has asked the DS to budget the agrarian budget of the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 10 billion decreases and transfer to the AP Vojvodina. That's very interesting. It's a very interesting problem that we have today with the ransom price of certain agricultural products, because it seems to me that those who buy them today, that they had incredibly great support from your government, in the earlier period to buy agricultural products cheaply and sell them expensively on the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23298	Time, Mr. Arsic. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23299	I am truly sorry that, after the specific questions and the specific data I have presented, my colleagues and I, again, are having an insult from the ruling majority MPs. I really don't understand what you expect from us? More of these insults, well, all right, we're that enemy hidden who's guilty of everything, but I'm sorry, the election was a year and a half ago almost, Mr. Arsic, don't speak like a man of the past. Your candidate for president said we shouldn't be people of the past, so don't be people of the past, but get into the present and solve these problems that citizens have, because that's our job here today. It's not the task of going back to who's to blame. Are you more guilty of leading to the bombing of Serbia or have we had some mistakes? We've had some difficult ones, we've admitted them, but we think we have better solutions now that you don't want to accept and what deflation are you talking about? If there is a deflation in Serbia today, then we have come to an economic collapse, a breakdown, because citizens can't buy anything. That's true. Of course, there's not a word about eating food, so can anyone in Serbia say that? That's one complete lie. As far as official data is concerned, please, official data that is often published through, as you like to say - the regimeal media, are often thrown out of context and do not respond to the truth, because the real truth is that today, Serbian citizens are extremely hard to live in, that it is extremely difficult to put an end to, that children went to school yesterday, that a difficult parent can buy new clothes and shoes to children, and you are today talking about that in Serbia is a mild state. It's not a mild condition. It's very difficult, it's harder than last year. I'm telling you you're incompetent, unprofessional to change that condition. I don't understand that you can't answer our questions rationally, you just return the insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23300	Time to Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Arsic, I'm asking you to finish. (Veroljub Arsic, from the place: He mentioned me several times personally. It's time to end the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23301	I would ask my esteemed colleague to say in which part did I personally insult him or even his political option? Let him quote that sentence. Don't say that. There were no insults. As for the past and the future, the problems we have are not the problems this government has made, but the previous and these problems we are living with today. The deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget, unpaid subsidies in agriculture, galloping the euro last year, poor judicial reform. This is a situation that this government has encountered and in order to measure the successes and results of this government we have to compare it with something. We're not comparing it to the Martians, I guess, but to the government that was in power before that, which caused the problems that this new government is now solving. If it's a great success for 290,000 people to be out of work for four years, then the government you supported and that you chose was very successful. I apologize to Serbian citizens for repeatedly saying that during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, 200,000 people lost their jobs. I was wrong. It's lost nearly 300,000, and now you expect that in 13 months, what you've been ruining for years, someone solves for those 300,000 people and finds a job. That's not possible. What is constantly causing the replica, I will appear every time after the replica. (President: Time, Mr. Arsic. I'm done. When you present incorrect data, the data that I have been saying is from official statistics authorities, not newspapers and articles.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23302	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23303	I'm sorry, Mr. Arsic. I'm asking you again one thing, you're saying the other. Mr. Prime Minister himself in the exposé says this government has found a bad situation for two reasons. The first is that we haven't reached 65% of the 1988 GDP. The second is that the economic crisis begins at the end of 2008. They're real facts. What you're saying is speculation. Do you really believe that Serbian citizens still think that you are making moves today that are great? Do you really think that citizens believe that the moves you have made in the last year and a half are the ones that have led to the improvement of the situation in Serbia? No, I don't. Serbian citizens realize that your godless fight against crime and corruption, above all corruption, is facing only one foreigner, and this is your way of always coming to an enemy who is guilty of everything. You're always calling for the DS to run the previous government and that it's her fault, and we don't have to do anything now, we just need to criticize what she did to DS. I think it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that every government should deal with the problems it faces, look into the future, propose the measures that will help them, not from the low initiatives of political criticism of a predecessor who has sinned. We were wrong, we confessed, it cost us the election, so now we're in opposition, but I'm telling you, you're making more mistakes. You are dealing with non-important issues, and Serbia is falling apart more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23304	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. The available time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23305	I think it's important that at least at the end of this discussion, at least we mention the area of culture, one of the most interesting figures proposed to be minister in this reconstructed government. Right away, I think Ivan Tasovac needs Serbia's culture, obviously he needs this government, too. I have no dilemma that he can do many good things for Serbia's culture, but the question is – what will this reconstructed government do to Ivan Tasovac? Will it help him to clear up with me, something that was the worst in the previous term, at least when it comes to culture? It is not a budget in the historical minimum, nor a lack of media and cultural strategy, nor a party appointment, etc. In my opinion, the worst effect of the previous culture ministry is the creation of an atmosphere divided into patriots and traitors, the restoration of these old, new divisions, the advocate of the most conservative tradition and mythological values from that fairy tale of celestial Serbia. Will Ivan Tasovac have the support to change that atmosphere and to deal with those non-matriot artists' lists of non-patriotic artists, anti-Serb films, those scientific texts about Serbs and Serbs, because I do not believe that Ivan Tasovac would be their choice, but unfortunately they have already been elected, they are members of the board of directors, they are members of expert commissions, they are members of the jury. Will the reconstructed Serbian government give support to Ivan Tasovac? Of course, Ivan Tasovac, who on the very other side of this murky quasipatriotism, showed something else to his professional and life engagement. Will the Serbian government spend Ivan Tasovac and with him spend our hopes that Serbia can be better in culture or will help him and support him to and on his case exactly as in culture as in all segments...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23306	Time. The word is made by the MP Ivan Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23307	The chairman, the first vice president of the government went into the O.R., looked in my direction and said, "What is it, you've been acting smart again?" I beg of you, Article 107 of Section 1, honor this National Assembly. We didn't say anything ugly. We were talking about specific problems. I tried to open a debate about it. I didn't make it, I'm sorry. I wasn't talking about anyone bad, not like this. I don't think this home is worthy of this kind of behavior. I beg you, you are much older, try to appease the government's representatives and make this discussion through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23308	I'm just obliged to tell you that what you said to me, I can believe it, and I don't believe it, but I haven't heard it, and on that basis I can't react at all, I have no basis. However, we can plead that in voting day, if you like? (John Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. ) The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23309	It would take a day to vote if I had said anything offensive, that I had done anything offensive or tried to do anything. This wheezing, along with the day-long insults that come from the DS ranks, will continue, I suppose, and the next days, shows only that they had no strength, no knowledge that they are fighting against those who are no better at this point. I don't mind that, because I don't want to say what you've been throwing all day and all with a rude vocabulary, what you've said using a microphone and not using a microphone, I just don't understand what you're complaining about when anyone answers you in a completely peaceful, civilized and decent way. I've never, unlike you, cursed anything or waved my hands or anything like that. You know, those tricks that you've been tearing down other people in the past, those tricks don't go away with me. I graduated from college with the best and highest grades, but I also grew up on Belgrade's asphalt. That's why these tricks don't go the way they did with some others. As for Serbia, which is full of the lies that you've been presenting today and Saturday, countless false data, I ask you once again to show me those 45,000 Guzenbauers you spoke of today. I urge you once again to show us these zero indictments, to show us this dizzy growth of unemployment in the last year and all that you've been making up for days by trying to present things to the Serbian citizens to the black or the worst possible, and I guess I'm spending myself as angels and saints of some democracy of Serbia, future Serbia or not knowing what it is. Serbia wanted changes and Serbia wants them. Serbia wants the government's serious and responsible relationship. Serbia wants a serious and responsible government, and you have some good that you're going to spend, some that they've introduced into the mud. I suppose the president, or chairman of the National Assembly, heard that he would give you a warning, but I guess he didn't hear. If I had spoken and talked about mud and such divisions, I'm sure you'd have jumped to the ceiling, but you're allowed to do anything, and we're not allowed anything. And that's okay. I guess it's somewhere common and normal, counting on what our responsibility is and how much of your irresponsibleness is. I think this debate has shown that the Serbian government has a future, that it will have to work, that it will have to fight those who would stop Serbia's progress, that it will have to fight those who will cause unrest in every man with false information, false statements, that the government will have to, with all the real problems it faces, to face this kind of upgrade that is not easy to endure. In any case, I would like to thank everyone who supports the government for the end of this debate, but not only those who support and those who will not vote for our government, who have been very correct, who have been completely fair in this debate, criticised what they thought was bad, but whose limits of decency were never as low as one parliamentary group. I think it is very important that Serbia gets a new government, that this new government is committed to solving economic problems, that everything that was bad in the past we manage to overcome important reforms, difficult reforms. I am convinced that after this, Serbian citizens will give stronger, stronger and stronger support to the Serbian government, especially to these young people, young ministers, new ministers, and that who will spend who, who has made whom, who has not done it, will leave it to the citizens of Serbia to assess them in a few months and in a few weeks who have worked best. We have worked honestly, responsibly, I think well, some would say very well, some think something weaker, but Serbian citizens should know that in the future we will do our best, that we will work day and night, that we will be industrious. I am convinced that we will achieve incomparably greater success in all areas of social life than this has ever been the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23310	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23311	Dear Chairman, I believe that after this presentation of Mr. Vukic, you had reason to warn him, since he indirectly admitted that he did what his colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23312	Mr. Veselinovicu, what member is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23313	Articles 27 and 107. So, he confirmed in a statement that what Mr. Ivan Jovanovic said was true. I believe that this is how he humiliated the Assembly, that it was unrecorded that in this way the ministers, the first Deputy Prime Minister or prime minister had ever addressed the MPs. It's another kind of threat we've been talking about these days. It doesn't create a good atmosphere. I believe that this will have to be met and all those partners who co-operate with this government, because certainly the opposition in Serbia no longer has any conditions for normal work. If the minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Prime Minister threatens MPs, if the speaker cannot complete his exposure without obtaining a threat in one way or another, I believe that democracy has ended its story. Chairman, you were obliged to warn the first vice president, instead of saying what he said, he was talking about the topics we've been listening to these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23314	Mr. Veselinović, that's not how I experienced the Deputy Prime Minister at all. On the contrary, in your explanation of the Rules of Procedure, I was under the impression that at all costs you wanted to cause new replicas. It was at the border to give you a warning. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and you have the right to state whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured, especially since I'm not here listening to what, where in the meantime, around the bench who's talking. No one said anything in public, and I think... The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23315	I tried... Can I just ask you not to throw it away, because you're so sensitive that no one can tell you anything, and you're able to interrupt and throw me every time I start talking. But I don't see it as a threat. It's not my idea to say you're threatening me. I'm sure you don't think that's what you don't want. Imagine how many lawyers there are here, how many prosecutors, judges, lawyers, people who have graduated from law school, people who haven't graduated from law school, but they used to be in law school or something. Have you ever heard that it is possible for a statement “you have been acting smart again, ” if I have well quoted what is said, that any lawyer, in any system, fully interprets it as a threat? Is that even possible somewhere? Is it even possible, people, that you're interpreting it as a threat? For what? Where did that kind of frustration come from, or anything? I said something a little different. A little different. Nothing ugly, nothing bad. In the usual parliamentary discussion, it happens every day in the most normal, friendly way possible. Where did you see the threat? Here, I ask you - where did you see the threat? No one saw her, and no one can understand it, but you saw her as soon as I showed up in the O.R. and there was a threat for you. As I appeared at this door, a threat came to you. The threat that you will be exposed. The threat that all your lies fell into the water. The threat that every piece of information you bring out, I show and prove it's false. I understand that every time I appear in this room, you see me as a threat. As for that, don't worry, with this practice, I will continue to show the citizens of Serbia what the real truth is, what things are data, not what your inventions are and what your desires are. Serbia deserves much better than what it has today, and I can't even tell you how many times it deserves better than those who are trying to attack the government today. Thank you very much. I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia will best be able to evaluate both your and our approach and our work. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23316	Replica, Jovanovic, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23317	I am pleased, Mr. Chairman, that the first Deputy Prime Minister has admitted what he has said and thrown away and I have not even said that it has been threatened, but that some citizens of Serbia speak about it, and I have said that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by that act. I can understand these reactions, nervous. I think the citizens of Serbia are increasingly seeing that the truth you're talking about, the truth only for you and for certain media, in Serbia is completely different and that it's getting harder and harder to hide. That's what's holding you back. You have specific questions because you do not have specific answers to them. I'm the one who set them up. I didn't get any concrete answers today. What we got was again some debate about who we are. I won't apologize to you because there is an DS, but there will still be voters who vote for it. Voters who realize that only DS can create from Serbia what they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23318	Mr. Vice President, please, if you'd been so argumentative until now, I have a feeling that everything else would be too high. Please give up so we can finish as soon as possible. There are other people who want to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23319	I accept and thank you for your exact words. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23320	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23321	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, members of the current and future government, what is the difference between this home and the Vatican? Don't bother, I'll tell you. There is no chimney in this building through which in one two hours, white smoke, as a sign, will be given a new government, "orbi e turbo", that we have finally recasted after three days. In the Vatican, it exists. What's the resemblance? The similarity is that the cardinals there at the council for 10-15 days are struck...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23322	Mr. Trnavčević, please, with all due respect, I cannot allow such comparison by anyone, not even you, respecting your age. Compared to this House to the Vatican, I don't think it's appropriate. I'll give you my word, but, please, I won't allow it for the reason you insult me and everyone present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23323	I said there's a similarity, and there's a council of cardinals out there, ten to 15 days later, and it's guessing that Franjo from Argentina will be the new pope, and we here for a few days, someone says six months, I don't know if it's that much, we're talking about redesigning, watch out, I'm not talking about reconstruction, I'm talking about redesigning the government. However, in this time, I can give examples, were practically without the government. Mr. Rasim Ljajic could not agree with the finance minister, because he was not there, about farmers, or the Reserve Directorate, taking one loan and giving farmers a loan of fertilizer, seeds, etc. Also, there was no agriculture minister to agree with Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic on the electrification of agriculture, a very important venture, etc. The Catholic Church, however, is a perfect organization in which it does not feel at all if the cardinals there beat empty straw for 20 days choosing a new pope. Mr. President, I'm fond of every government, because I don't have any other government but you. In my case, affection involves honesty. I'll tell you the truth. The truth may not always be pleasant, but it is. I must remind you that you and Mr. Vucic were selectors, a two-man who, after the election last year, made up this government and on that occasion led more to the occasion of party candidate membership, and he forgot that it was very important to establish the programme. Your government dealt with the date for the first 6-7 months, the EU, Kosovo, crime and corruption. These are important issues, but more important issues exist, which is economic recovery, re-industriousisation and particularly the development of agriculture. I have the impression that you're going to make the same mistake again, which is, you've chosen people again, you've even thought about bringing new people from abroad, who are going to work in the new government, instead of going out with one project first, a program that this government needs to do, and according to this project, you're going to choose masters and other performers. If we'd behaved a little better, we could have listened to, say, these candidates in the first day after your exposé, asked them some questions, what the U.S. Senate is doing, which is "hiering," that's an interview with them, so let's say, and they hear some good news from us, a good recommendation. Mr. Prime Minister, this time in your exposé on Friday, you only mentioned agriculture and the food industry once. Whether it slips or slips the writer of your speech, I don't know, but agriculture is so important to Serbia that it deserves a central and central place. Mr. Alexander Vukic talked the other day about meeting with the pair and saying, and today he said the same thing, that the government can't, and that's true, that it affects ransom prices. But, Mr. Vukicu, the government has quite the instruments and powers to parity the price, fertilisers, seeds, fuel especially, that they're cheap if they're cheaped by sunflower, soy and corn compared to the previous year, because yesterday I had Mirko Perisic, from Stara Paz's farmer, who says that all farmers at these prices will have a loss this year, which means they won't be able to make the set, get the fertilizer, seeds, etc. It's gone, and I think it's been missed for 13 months to talk about irrigation. Do you know that this year we will again have damages from drought, at least one billion euros, to talk about cheap agricultural loans, to talk about the restoration of cooperatives? (Chairman: Time, Mr. Trnavciæević. Well, then I'll cut to the chase of these reasons. Mr. Dacic, today is the year you appointed the Agrarian National Council. On that occasion, next to me as president, you appointed a vice president... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23324	Mr. Trnavevich, I must respect the Rules of Procedure. (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the place: Please finish, I only have two sentences. ) I let you make up for it all the time. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jeftic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23326	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, present and future members of the government, dear fellow MPs, this reconstruction has been going on and on for too long, for six months now and I can freely say that Serbia has been, in fact, over the past six months, for how long this reconstruction has been covered by media stories about how reconstruction will take place, in which direction, who will be future ministers and so on. I think that in this way, all the issues and problems that Serbia has faced in this period have been put on the other hand. I must say that the debate in the Assembly has been under way for this reason, in fact one of the possible reasons is that the MPs have received personal solutions for the future members of the Government the day after the debate was scheduled in the Assembly, and it may be one of the reasons why it is going in this direction, but I will not be lenient about it now. What is a fact, and what has been mentioned many times these days, is that candidates for future ministers have actually not submitted some of their reports, or future work plan, and it has been said a lot, which in any case I find inadmissible because MPs are not familiar with what this will be in the reconstructed government compared to the previous government, except for a small number of women in the next assembly of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23327	I ask the People's Messengers to listen to the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23328	I hope that the smaller number of women in the future government is simply the result of a coincidence due to fatigue due to the long-term reconstruction of the government. Let's just say, as a folk MP from Nis, I don't really know whether the new Culture Minister, Mr. Tasovac, will do his best to make a future question about holding the Nis Festival, or whether its co-financing will be repeated and that one of these situations, which we had a few months ago, on the basis of superficial estimates, whether this festival deserves to be co-financed by Serbia's budget, will no longer be repeated. I also hope that the future minister of regional development and local self-government will make sure that regional development is implemented in the right way and will not forget the south of Serbia, that is, the southern part of Serbia from which it was actually born, because the fact that unemployment is both a major problem in Nis and that around 40,000 people are currently unemployed. I'm talking about data from the Bureau. Mr. Vukic, I will take this opportunity and give myself the right to ask you certain questions, since in the last two or three months, we haven't had a chance to ask the last Thursday of the month questions to the members of the government, but I'll be as brief as possible. You signed a contract with a strategic partner, Etyhad, and you sort of solved a part of JAT's problem. I am interested in whether your plans in the negotiations with Ethicada actually involve the city of Nis and whether you have in any way had in mind the situation in which Konstantin the Great is located in Nis, since Nis has been facing a very bad situation for many years on this issue. For example, in 2011 in particular, a month before the agreed deadline ended, the contract with the Italian company Wind Jet and the team were citizens of Nis, i.e. today the citizens of Nis lose about 50 million dinars in the name of the deposit. I must mention, Mr Dinkic is now a former minister in the Serbian government, but he was also responsible, and he will be in the coming period for negotiations with the Emirates. Since we haven't learned anything about what's really going on here, I just want to know what's going on with the Nish cable factory. Finally another, I can say the bright spot in this reconstruction is the intention of the new government to actually give young people an opportunity and, in this way, to entrust themselves primarily to the very important tasks of people who may not have so much experience in politics. Except that young people are generally expected to be capable and sacrificed, they are expected to be a much greater kind of responsibility than others. I just want to say that since the media started to tell a story about the future finance minister being young Nislija, Mr Krstic, many have judged him because he is young, because he is educated abroad, which is because they simply resent him, no matter what they have no concrete reason, but it is important that you be against everything you are not used to. I can say that Mr. Krstic is a friend of mine from high school, that we ended up in Bora Stankovic High School together, and that his generation cannot know if he will really do this job well, but he expects, if he is given freedom, that he will justify the expectations of his generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23329	The word is Mr. Momo Colakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23330	Dear President, the Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Vice-President, ministers and candidates for ministers, honourable MPs, I have prepared very carefully for a creative debate on topics that were on the agenda. I hope that, in the next period in the work of Parliament, I will have the arguments, data and all the facts that have been discussed here and the resolutions covered by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Krkobic, to have the opportunity to talk about it and argued that I am getting answers. Because of the deep disagreement and the disapproval of the atmosphere in which we've been working these three days and because I want to contribute to the government's choice as soon as possible, I'm giving up the debate. Our parliamentary group will vote for the election of new ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23331	Thank you. Since the list of parliamentary groups has no longer been reported for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to speak. Rules of Procedure. The word has the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23332	Let me end up at the shortest possible, without wanting to answer all the questions that have been asked, because surely there is no time for that now, and even during the debate we have answered many questions. Let me just point out that this exposé I filed a few days ago for the election of new members of the government is not an exposé that is not in agreement with what we were saying here when the government was elected. Therefore, those things that were then said and written are still the fundamentals of our government's policy. That means demographic issues and various other issues raised I didn't feel it necessary to mention them again in some new exposé about the election of new members of the government. Also, on the other hand, I wouldn't be thinking about what kind of exposure should be, how specific he was on some other occasions when your people were prime ministers or candidates, I don't think it matters after all. I am the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I co-ordinate the work of the ministries and the government of the Republic of Serbia determines and leads Serbia's internal policy and foreign policy. So we have ministries that will make concrete plans based on these basic settings that we have set up in the exposé. I've already said that what's said in the area of the economy is consistent with people who are candidates for ministers in economic ministries. When it comes to the length of reconstruction, the duration of the reconstruction process. You know we're on our way to this process after the signing of the Brussels Agreement. So I don't know why you're talking about six months? Mr. Vukic and I had an agreement that after the signing of the Brussels Agreement and the decisions on whether Serbia would start negotiations on EU membership, which means after 28 June we are dealing with these issues. Otherwise, it's not the first time it's been a government reconstruction. You know well that such a reconstruction was also at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica since 2004, so I was not inclined to comment on the whole reconstruction at that time through a solution that was taken out by this reconstruction, such as Ivana Dulic Markovic, which probably made you all proud and the party that ran. On the other hand, we had the reconstruction of the Government of Mirka Cvetkovic, so when you say how fundamental this reconstruction is and how serious you have to consider several segments. It is also about the need for the government of the Republic of Serbia to focus on two basic issues, which is negotiations with the EU and resolution, i.e. stopping the economic crisis and encouraging economic growth as the only way to resolve all other issues that arise. A question of social justice, including measures for demographics. It all kind of depends. Incentive investment measures all depend on the level of economic activity. Also, I would not comment on who had the impact and what happened during one of the governments, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija during the past year. You well know, in no area was it possible to be so much worse than it was a year ago. So claims that Serbia has now come into a tragic situation due to these years are not sufficiently justified. On the contrary, if you're talking about the education system now, the health system, so you're not going to fail for this year's health system? Or, when you talk about economics, about the borrowing process, about privatisation, about restructuring. This is all about political struggle, and I understand it that way. On the other hand, we all need to understand that what we stand for, ultimately, the Supreme Politicians are judges, or citizens. I respect the DSS opinion, of course I can never agree with what Mr Samardzic said, which is that this government will remain remembered for capitulation, by national betrayal, because his government, in which he was a minister, could be remembered for the declaration, a unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija. By respecting the Constitution, you had to use weapons to defend the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. Why didn't you do it, and I won't tell you that you are the greatest traitors in the history of the Serbian people. At least in 1999, we tried to defend ourselves with weapons. We didn't make it. Sir, since you don't seem to know your own party well either, you threw it to me when I said that Vojislav Kostunica was visiting Simpa that he never was. And you're uninformed. He was, of course, in Bujanovac "Simpo". You want me to show you pictures of that reception here. Don't throw it away. What you think, you mean, but I don't know if you'll understand. Still, I don't want to pummel. Of course, I don't want to pollute, I want to assure you that what we think about each other here is well known, so you won't be here overnight changing your sympathy or antipathies. You can think the worst and I will fight for your right to say it, but you cannot impose it on most Serbian citizens. In this case, the ruling coalition has no supremacy only in the assembly but in the people of Serbia. It's for us the greatest praise there is. I have to tell you the same thing, in the country and in the world, they didn't expect much from this government. I'll tell you the next thing. When Tomislav Nikolic proposed me to be the prime minister, US Ambassador then, Mary Vorlik, Mr. Vukic can confirm it if he wants to, and he doesn't have to, but that is the case, she asked for a reception with Tomislav Nikolic. She complained about why he appointed me as the prime minister. Mr Nikolic said – why when he was Deputy Prime Minister in the government with the DS. Yeah, but the Democrats were in control then, and he was good then, and now as prime minister, he's not gonna be good. So, what I'm saying is, they didn't mind making a different government at the time, but they didn't mind me being a prime minister. In view of our political "background", that is, everything that was in the country and in the world did not expect great results from this government. I have to tell you next. That was a much easier position than this one right now. Now much more is expected of us, because we have achieved results. I want to tell the parliamentary majority. You really have reason to be proud of what this government did, although it was hard not to close our eyes to problems, we opened the door for Serbia's future. We had enough courage to step forward. How quickly we move on will depend on the success of this government reconstruction. That's why we're going into reconstruction, to get better results. That's why I urge all of you to support this proposal of new members of the government. You can see they're durable. None of them gave up, although he could listen to these different, some in ways they weren't used to. I wish them success in their work. I want all darkness for Serbia to be proud of its government, and I urge you all to believe in Serbia as this government does. I believe in Serbia in its future. That's why I urge you to vote for the election of new members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-09-02-0.u23333	I'm finishing the search. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on a single agenda item of this session, pursuant to Article 270(1). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 2 September 2013, starting at 22.40 p.m. as a day for voting on a proposal for candidates for members of the government. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I'm asking the ministers just to get their cards out of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a proposal to elect members of the Government, before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 270(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on a proposal to elect members of the Government shall be decided in general by a secret vote, unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be called out. I propose that the National Assembly make a public statement on a proposal to elect members of the Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 137 MPs voted against, one against, one abstention, and I conclude that the National Assembly has decided to make a proposal for the election of members of the Government publicly. It's a roll call. Before moving to a roll call vote, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 9) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Government shall elect the majority of the votes of all MPs, and in accordance with Article 15(2). The government's law on the election of members of the government, the Assembly decides in general. I also remind you that it's Article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting by a call and that, in accordance with that provision, the Secretary General of the National Assembly shall call on the national affairs in the alphabetical order of the last name. People's MPs who approach the vote say the word "yes", "against" or "abstained". The president reiterates the name and name of the MP who voted, his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not want to vote. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement by the MP, or his absence, with his name and last name on the list. The decision is considered to be made when the president of the National Assembly finds that it was voted by the majority prescribed by the Constitution, which is the majority of the total number of MPs. I am voting on a motion to elect members of the government as a whole. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. (The Secretary-General makes a call, and the MPs declare themselves. Aleksić Irena – za; Aligrudić Miloš – v; Andrić Dragan – absent; Andrić Ivan – absent; Angelković Zoran – za; Antić Zoran – za; Arsenović Konstan – za; Arsić Veroljub – za; Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – za; Adžović Nevena – za; Babić Zoran – za; Bajatović Dušan – za; Banović Donka – v; Batić Olgica – za; Baure Ivan – za; Božanić Nebojša – za; Božić mr Igor – za; Budimirović Goran – absent; Božović vs. Vrjavić; Željić vs. Željić – Božan – vrić – Zalić – Vrić – Vrjavić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – Vrić – V. Dr Ninoslav – za; Gogić Branko – za; Gojković Žika – za; Gojković Maja – za; Gordić Vladimir – v; Grubješić Suzana – absent; Grujić Mladen – za; Dereta Miljenko – v; Dinić Ivana – za; Dinkić Mladjan – absent; Dragojević Srdjan – za; Dragosavljevic Zlatko – absent; Drocun Milovan – za; Dronjak Milica – za; Dujović Saša – za; Djelic mr. Bozidar – v; Đerić Zlata – za; Đidić Miodrag – absent; Đorđević Bojana – za; Đuković Dragana – absent; Đurić Bojan – v; Đurović Aleksandra – za; Elfić Emir – za; Živković Milinko – za; Zankov Stefan – za; Zeljović Nebojša – v; Igić Ružica – v; Ilić Stošić Biljana – za; Ilimić Vladimir – v; Jaković Bojan – za; Jakšić Marko – absent; Jevnović Vuka – za; Jeremić Vuk – absent; Jeremić Slobodan – za; Javić Branković – Za; Jovanović Ivan – v; Jovanović Miloštanović Milak – Zaža – Zažar – Zažakoža – Zažar – Zažovna Kovna Kaš – Kašksović – Kašović Dr. Zoran - za Radović Milica – v; Radojević Dr. Aleksandr – za; Raičević Radovan – za; Rajčić Dejan – za; Rakić Katarina – za; Rakonjac Vesna – za; Ranković Boris – absent; Rasković - Ivić Sanda – absent; Ristić Boško – absent; Ristić Marijan – za; Sveljić Slavica – v; Savić Ranka – v; Smirović Slavica – za; Smirovski Mile – za; Stanković Živojović – anti; Svanović Velimir – v; Svesojević Srđa – za; Štavić Sjavrjavić – Zastjavić – Zastak – Sjavrjavić – Sjavić – Sjavić – Sjavrjavić – Sjažović – Sjavić – Zjavić – Zažović – Zavić – Zažjavić – Zaž. Zažjavić – Zaž, Zaž. Zaž. Zaž. Zaž. Zaž. Zaž. Zaž. Zažjavić – Zaž. I'm setting a two-minute break until we can determine the results. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 191 MPs who joined the vote to elect members of the government, 134 MPs voted, 65 MPs and abstentioned MPs voted against the government's proposal. Since 134 MPs voted for a proposal to elect members of the government, representing most of the total number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has decided to elect members of the Government in the proposed composition. Let me congratulate on your and your behalf the members of the government on the election. And now I ask the members of the Government to comply with Article 16(2). Government law, approaches to swearing. Please repeat the oath text after me. (The President reads, and the members of the Government repeat the text of the oath). I pledge my allegiance to the Republic of Serbia and to my honor, I pledge to honor the constitution and the law, that the government's duty will be done knowingly, responsibly and committed and committed to the preservation of the Kosovos and metaphors within the Republic of Serbia.
