ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18314	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 88 MPs present in the hall, i.e. there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Tuesday, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, regret to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18315	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question was addressed to the Minister of Agriculture. Namely, since it is urgent to take measures to improve the situation in agriculture, especially in the veterinary and livestock industry, and above all because of the lack of vaccines against classical swine fever, and I know that about three, four days ago, some 680,000 doses for all of Serbia came in, which is, in any case, enough for about ten days, and there is a need for vaccination for about three million, and hence, the question of what should be done by the veterinarian who received 300 doses, and that amount could be spent on a daily basis, and it took about 1200 doses of vaccines and all of this was found by the inspectors, and because of the existence of material evidence? There's also a lack of rabies vaccine. And in this regard, a certain amount of doses arrived a few days ago, but in any case, a miserable one, which cannot possibly respond to real needs. There is also a lack of diagnostic agents to examine diagnostic agents for the examination of infectious animal diseases. Hence, my question to the Minister of Agriculture is, in fact, whether the Ministry of Agriculture is aware of the fact that just by not paying off the state of the field service and the veterinary service, it has been seriously jeopardizing the stock fund, its survival and the existence of the service itself for about 100 days now? What will the Ministry of Agriculture do, because it's already a question now, and not today, when can a swine infection or an outbreak of rage? Of course, none of these diseases can be treated, and the consequences can be inconceivable. Does the Ministry of Agriculture know that the outbreak of the disease destroys the stock fund, which is devastating and harmful primarily for the Serb peasant, then for all of us, as well as for the whole country, and the damage would be seen and they would be measured by billions of dinars? The question addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, but also to Minister Dinkic, is that, since veterinarians have obligations in terms of paying taxes, contributions, not to mention that they are already in charge of raising commercial loans to banks in order to respond to all their obligations, when will they finally be paid what the state owes them for the job done, and since the last payment was made in February of the month? I'll point out that today is June 18th. My next question is to the Justice Department. Since DHSS submitted a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee in January 2009 to determine the circumstances of the procurement and use of vaccines against H1N1 flu and that it was never put on the agenda, my question was addressed to the Ministry of Justice. At what stage is the criminal procedure, which is commonly known as the vaccine affair, was the health minister heard and all his associates heard? Is there by any chance an injury to the presumption of innocence, especially with regard to Smilje Mileusnic Adžic and Svetlana Vukajlovic? In the end, I have a question for the Minister of Health, and I ask them to give me precise answers. I'm going to charge them. First, why was it late to get the vaccine and is there any information that determines its quantities and when the epidemics are gone? Who pays the pens that gave up getting three million vaccines? Who was the representative of Novartis and how much commission did he have, or how much was the price of the vaccine per dose, and how much was the commission? Why were no analyses carried out whether there was a real need for Serbia for a vaccine like this? My last question is if all these tax issues are not decided and decided, they are not made by the Ministry of Health as a resolute ministry, then who actually decides on the health of all of us to this country of Serbia at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18316	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18317	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Science, Education and Technological Development, Žarko Obradovic and Minister of Agriculture Mr. Goran Knezevic. Namely, it is a Center for Agriculture and Technological Development from Zaječar, one of the scientific institutions that has been in existence for over a hundred years, an institution that I can freely say is one of the most important scientific institutions in eastern Serbia, on a project that could be based on the development of agriculture, but also on rural development in that part of Serbia. The institute is older than the Faculty of Agriculture, from the Institute of Economics of Agriculture from Belgrade, and today it is in a situation that with 73 workers, with 10 doctors sciences in the bankruptcy process. What happened to the Institute of Agriculture and Technological Development from Zaječar and what plan does the Ministry of Science and Agriculture have so that this institute could be restarted and revitalised if we are to take into account the fact that we want to create a knowledge-based society, that agriculture is one of the business branches on which Serbia will rely in the coming long-term period, because without the development of science, without such institutions, without innovation, we cannot talk about even regional development, or the development of agriculture, or the development of an economy? On several occasions, the union organisation of the Centre for Agriculture and Technological Development addressed and pointed to the failures and abuses of the situation of the then management, which probably led to such a situation and endangered agriculture as a development business branch in eastern Serbia, which is of great importance, if not the most important for that part of our country. What I'm saying is that countries that don't have natural resources rely on human resources rely on knowledge as a motor of competitiveness. Serbia has both natural and human resources, has knowledge, has opportunities to develop science, but also has natural resources. Despite all these resources, we now have a situation that agriculture in the region, but also in all of Serbia, cannot develop in one real way. I will set an example for my fellow Members, the MPs, that the Netherlands, with four times less processed surfaces, has an export of 100 billion euros. For one reason only, because it developed science, because it developed varieties, because it has led to the development of human resources and capacity in terms of agro-economists, when it comes to agricultural engineers, when it comes to managers who will sell these agricultural products on the world market, and our country has two billion euros since exporting agricultural products. The only and most responsible factor and aspect of this is the development of science and competitiveness in scientific research and innovative research. Therefore, I ask the Ministry of Science, Education and Technological Development and the Ministry of Agriculture to at least try to find a solution that one of the largest economic branches in that part of Serbia, and of course throughout Serbia, could develop in the coming period and that Serbia would focus its economic development on such a strategically important economic branch, which many in our country have been talking about for the past 30, 40 years, and within which not much has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18318	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18319	Thank you, colleagues and colleagues. You remember, after the last election, what was going on in Zajecar. Remember the sacks, break into the Assembly, pull-up, broadcast on TV, almost even minor physical accounts. I think it's similar, if not worse, to prepare for this election now. Tell me where in Europe there's a vote on photocopyed ballots, and right now, there's an election commission, imagine, there's next week's election going on. The president of the electoral commission resigned a month ago. Probably the vice president. Those on the electoral commission have decided to vote on photocopyed ballots. Like, take one, print it out, hit the original seal and then photocopy it into 60,000 copies. Where do they copy? It was even a photocopier's tender, not some photocopier in Zajecar. No, the official messenger. Four times the bid, four times the offer of the others, but the Official Messenger got the job of photocopying ballots. Do I have to point out that the director of the official messenger is from the SNS? Yesterday there was a rally, there was half the government and Vuk Draskovic came to support that estradic road. He was run against by the big brother, Dinkic's candidate. Last time, they killed each other. You know what, if that's the case, does the election process have to look like Big Brother? Photocopied ballots. There's a general mess there. Our candidate, Nenad Ristovic, could beat Boška himself, in a normal atmosphere, but there, you read also in the papers, beaten people, so they didn't get beaten up, so they fell on their heads three, four times, etc. Absolutely, what's going on in Zajecar and what's going on in Zajecar is really at the Big Brother level where one candidate is, and the other one is no better. The people of Zaječar said what they had on it yesterday at a rally with half the government and Vuk Draskovic arrived. There were very few people for such a representative gathering, I'd say. There used to be a lot of sheep in that eastern Serbia, but if anyone thinks that the citizens of eastern Serbia and the Zaječar municipality are sheep, he has been badly deceived, as will be seen in the elections. Come on, people, behave, we're going to Europe, we're complaining about the date, and we're voting on photocopyed ballots at a company run by SNS. Who can guarantee it won't be in the pockets of ten ballots? Will they go there and count the photocopier machine and control it? Better machines, probably, the Official Messenger has such machines, and it can be controlled, but in any case, you'll agree, this is no party story and question, but you'll agree that this is not normal. So, I ask, is it possible that elections in Zajecar are held in such an atmosphere with the bristle electoral commission, with fights and beatings and payments? Glasses of dioptria have resurfaced, as we had recently in Zemun. All right, let's say it's some folklore. Serbia is only 20 and a few years in the multi-party, but voting on photocopied ballots does not really work. We are a candidate for the EU, we should get a date and go in that direction, and here we are full of democracy, full of mouths of European values, etc. These things show how mature the country is to continue on the European path. On these, not the story and the Brussels agreements, etc. So, a question for the government, a question for the president of the assembly, a question for those who absolutely have to react to the Zajecar elections in the minimally fair and democratic atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18320	Thank you. The word is made by MP Nikola Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18321	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is not politically but directed to the Ministry of Health and concerns the appointment of the review, above all in primary protection. What's going on a few years back in health care, I think he's leading the dehumanization of health care. Today, when a man gets sick or has some problems, stomach pains, contact a doctor of general practice, wait for the kind sisters and say – you will come in two or three days. It's absurd and it absolutely doesn't have any medical logic. An appointment in such patients leads to one health disorder. An appointment at a secondary facility with a specialist doctor is held for about four months. Many will say, "It's not four, it's the moon." It's not the moon. I'm saying this on behalf of the Rasin County patients, and that probably applies to other districts and to all of Serbia. What's interesting, you call and tell you – we don't have a list of on callers, we don't have a list of doctors working, come in in 10 days. You pick up in 10 days, and they tell you they don't have a list yet, and that's how it works. When you get your turn, they tell you you're number 184. The patient's not a number. The patient is a man who has his problems and requires simple help. What the Ministry of Health has to do and it's not a legal decision, it's a recommendation from the former ministry, that these checks are scheduled for big crowds. I started working in 1973 when there were 24 doctors in Kruševec, when there was much less diagnostics and no one was scheduled to examine. Then the bile bag was waited a month to be diagnosed. Today, for ultrasound diagnostics, five minutes is enough. So there's something wrong with those appointments. We've also introduced computerization and trust me that the program we're using right now is extremely slow. The Ministry of Health must do something to stop this appointment as soon as possible, at least in primary protection. My proposal, although this is the day for questions, is that when the ministry gentlemen come to the province to see how the health service works, they come unannounced. I'd like them to come to those days when the appointment is reviewed to see what the situation is, say, in pears, royals and other hospitals. One more question from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and regarding the work of the middle medical staff, again I am talking about the Krushevac hospital, where they work 12-12. It's an inhumane relationship with that staff, especially when, say, you have sisters who work in coronary units, where, by law, work hours are cut short, so, man care, part-time, and she works 12 hours. Her official hours are five or six hours. So, the question is the Ministry of Labour and Labour – does anyone have any insight into that they work 12-12 from a year on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18322	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18323	Thank you. Dear MPs, my question concerns a plan to implement the agreement between Belgrade and Pristina. Namely, this is Serbia's most important state business today, and all the capacities of this country have been put forward in implementing this plan in order to obtain conditions for getting a date or green light or a conditional date or date on the date, however, something will be obtained, but it is important that Kosovo surrenders to the end and serves this plan, as we all know. However, even when we follow how it is conducted and what is done in this process, we see what it is like. I will refer to only one detail of this plan and its implementation, and it is about the appointment of the so-called so-called plan. a management team or management team appointed by the Government three or four days ago. We got that information through the media. We also saw the names of a member of the management team through the media. Now a whole series of questions are asked only about this one thing, about this one detail of the application plan. According to the agreement and the plan, the management team should consist of four representatives of four municipalities in northern Kosovo and that they should represent those municipalities, at least it says. First of all, I'd like to know what criteria the government used to run when it named these four or these four people that are now supposed to play on that steering team. I've been asking around the people politically activated in Kosovo and here. It's about people who don't have any representative capacity today, absolutely nothing. None of them are even a councilman in any of these four Sos, or functions, or anything else. Four of them have only one political experience. This is Mr. Jablanovic from Leposavic, who was president of the municipality at the end of the 1990s and then had a certain political career. These other three are people who have not participated in any political activities or in some more serious divisions of these SOs or anything else in Kosovo and Metohija. We see from the media that they're avoiding conversations with journalists. Of course, journalists are interested in what they will do and how they will prepare for it. By the way, if we follow the provisions of this application plan, the task of this management team is neither simple nor easy. They should prepare the statutes of the Serb municipalities community. In the meantime, up to the elections to be held in October, preparations and the elections and the functioning of these municipalities, therefore, their internal reforms to be ready for the elections and to enter the structures of Kosovo's local self-government. They should take over the implementation of points 4 and 6 of the first agreement between Belgrade and Pristina, and they concern the competences and affairs that municipalities will carry out both in this period and later. Therefore, the tasks of this management team are very large. If we compare the delicateness of their tasks, the complexity of their tasks and the composition of these people, we simply see that they cannot carry it out. So there's a place to suspect human and human manipulation. So people have been chosen who will not be able to do such a job, but are not just appointed. On their own, they'll be doing someone else's job, and they just borrowed their names. They are people who have given their human character masks for this manipulation that needs to be done, which is that a step by step completes the preparation for the education of the Serb municipalities community, so that they can easily and lie into Kosovo's self-government system. So, the question for the government, if it has made the appointment, then also for the Prime Minister and for the head of the office who also participated in the selection of these people -- by what criteria are they elected? The second question is actually - were the authorities of Kosovo, therefore, the Albanian authorities of Kosovo consulted on their appointment, because the plan for application said that they would actually, even though the presidents of the municipality were elected, were chosen on the basis of agreements and agreements with Kosovo authorities? (President: Time. ) So we have two questions and I ask a clear and urgent answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18324	Thank you. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18325	Dear colleagues, I have two questions. The first question is for the directors of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr. Vulin - what is the Government of Serbia and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija doing, since we are about to have a religious holiday of Vidovdan, when a huge number of Serbian citizens want to go to Kosovo and Metohija to Gaza to bow down to the shadows of Emperor Lazar and Kosovo martyrs? In fact, we have been witnessing over the past years, that such departures have been a cause for the huge chicing of Serbian citizens who have crossed the administrative border or line and who have been forced to take their shirts off the marks of Serbia, the flags have been torn, the national flags of Serbia have been thrown away, etc. Many ended up in KPS detentions, etc. The question is: has the Office taken all necessary measures to avoid such a manifestation of the past event after the signed agreement, at least this year, and our citizens who show the need to go to Kosovo and Metohija that day not to experience what they experienced in the past years? The second issue is related to the Privatisation Agency and to the director of the Privatisation Agency. The question is – when will the small shareholders of the AIP "His" from Lovcenec be paid? In fact, during the privatisation of the combination, small shareholders were to be paid about five and a half million euros. The money was paid to the privatisation agency as a bankruptcy manager. The money still stands for many years, interest on the accounts of business banks, and workers, former AIP workers "Higos", pensioners and small shareholders, in one word not a single dinar has been paid. I've been asking that question on many occasions. We've never received an adequate answer before. The law is on the side of small shareholders. However, it is definitely about the zeal and haughtiness of the Privatisation Agency that does not want to implement the contract clause when it comes to the privatisation of the AIP "Higos". How much does this mean for a small municipality like Mali Ijish and the Hunter himself, the fact that only two hundred people work there, that of those two hundred people who work most of them work in the state administration, i.e. in local self-government or possibly in state institutions that are gravitating and working there. This is really necessary also in light of what we see happening this morning, when certain representatives of the Privatisation Agency are brought in for talks or how it will be formulated. In any case, I ask an urgent answer – what about the money that stands, which is interest, whose amount is now almost doubled? Will that money be paid in the next period to those to whom it should be and to whom it is intended by the privatisation agreement of AIP "Hiss", which are small shareholders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18326	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18327	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, my question concerns endangering the independence of a state institution, which concerns the Fiscal Council, since the first vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic. By means of the media, Aleksandar Vukic put pressure on this independent institution and on this body that has the law given authority and which is an independent authority in relation to the government. My question concerns the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – what will he do to protect the independent function of the Fiscal Council through the institution of supervision of law enforcement? This issue concerns and I also ask the Prime Minister, Mr Dacic – what he will do at the government level, that government members, including the vice president, are not at risk of independent institutions, because this is not the first time. The fiscal council has a legal definition and tasks. Article 92a states that the Fiscal Council is an independent state body. It was also given powers in Article 92a, where it is said to check the macroeconomic and fiscal assumptions used to produce a report on the government's fiscal strategy, give an independent and credible assessment of the economic policy measures proposed by the government in order to achieve the quantitative fiscal objectives set by the government, assess the underlying fiscal risks and likely that the government will meet its fiscal goals in the future. Not to waste my time, I will not read until the end of the fiscal council's mandate given by law. Therefore, the law clearly laid down the jurisdiction of the Fiscal Council. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, in his statements through the media, pressed the Fiscal Council, jeopardizing its independence, even threatening an implicit reduction of salaries to members of the Fiscal Council, of course, if they are tried again to criticise, or to perform their function, better said. So Mr. Vukic said that the Fiscal Council is giving lectures on everything, and he didn't remember to freeze his wages. In the jurisdiction of the Fiscal Council, there is no freezing of the salary of the Fiscal Council, no increase or reduction of wages. That's what some other organs do. However, what certainly hurt the government, probably all the members, and this is where Mr. Vukic was exhibited, is the fact that the Fiscal Council made it clear that an urgent budget rebalance is necessary to avoid a possible public debt crisis, read – bankruptcy of the state. On the other hand, if a reform of the fiscal system, i.e. the state's economic system is needed, again to avoid bankruptcy. The fiscal council urged the government to try to find a way out of this crisis in contacts with the IMF, namely to re-contract with the IMF and to return to Serbia, which the government has expelled. However, in all of this, the Fiscal Council received only criticism and in this way another body was placed under the bat of the government, which the government in some way demeans and lawfully discredits all independent institutions. First it started with the NBS, then other institutions came. This is also a message to other institutions, possibly also to the Anti-Corruption Agency and other institutions, if they criticise and somehow label someone from the government to break the law, they will be treated as the Fiscal Council. I have very little time left. I wanted to give some very interesting answers to the parliamentary questions that me and my MP group gave in some previous period, but I don't have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18328	Time. Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request notices of the following questions. I have applied to the Catastar of immovableity in India to answer my question – what happened to land plots, i.e. agricultural land in state property with parcels: 1716, 1717, 1718, 1719,1720, 1721, 1722, 1723, 1724, 1725, 1726, 1727, 1728? The plots are located in the territory of the Indji Municipality, in the Katastria Municipality of Krcedin. Also, I asked Katastre for information on parcels: 1710, 1710/2, 1710/3, 1710/5, 1710/6, 1710/7, 1710/8, 1710/9, 1710/10, 1710/11, for parcels 1715, for parcels 1710/12, 1710/13 and plot 1710/14. Namely, the notifications I seek are – to what is all the ownership changes, i.e. what are all the rights holders listed in the Catastrian parcels in the last seven years? There is an indication that 101 hectares of state land were unauthorizedly replaced with the companies "Agrounia", owned by MK Komerc, along the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, that this land was commercially equipped for the cost of citizens of the Republic, the province and the Indji Municipality, that the land was replaced for a less valuable land, illegally, on the territory of the Indji Municipality of Cortanovci Municipality. This, "Agrounia", owned by MK Komerc, has benefited itself from 30m euros. Also, there is an indication that the Indjia Municipality allowed that replacement and that it has been communally equipped for its needs and needs of the regional dump, and later bought land from Agrounia, owned by MK Komerc. I note that the case is heavy somewhere around 30m euros. Since it's already about the person who got everything from this country, since others don't have everything, I'm looking for an urgent answer to these questions. My second question concerns the Regional Fund for Agriculture, i.e. for transfers made for legal and natural persons from the territory of the Indji Municipality on 14 May 2012, to remind you, that was between the two rounds of the province's elections, for the transfer of 19,728,961 dinars, sent to the company Poljotrade, whose headquarters is located on the territory of the Indji Municipality. The second transfer was on May 15, 2012, from 17.529.437 dinars, to the physical face of Radivoja Petrovic, who also owns the first firm to receive the money. The money's supposed to be used for the gulf systems he doesn't have. I'm interested in that. When was the competition? Who took part in the competition because the funds were regressed or irrevocable? Who was in control of the dedicated spending? Was Poljotrade and Radivoje Petrovic a DS donor? Next, who financed a 9,000-pack of groceries in the next election? Did the same account of the company "Sunoko", owned by MK Komerc, in 2012, send funds to sugar-tailed farmers who were never assigned to these farmers, nor did they own a sugar-tailed tail? I'm asking this question about that election campaign and the irregularities that took place in the election. Just to remind myself that such a type of election received even the Romans punished 2077 years ago when two consuls were chosen in a similar way by bribing life-saving packages and the Roman court declared it an election theft and annulled that kind of election. So, I want to know if through the Regional Fund for Agriculture this way the funds have been allocated, that the election campaign has been bribed in this way by voters, that is, whether the funds that were intended for the development of agriculture have not come to farmers but have been spent on an election campaign? The last question – what will the law enforcement authorities do about the privatisation of the company "Centro Srem" from Stara Pazova, where the daughters "Textil", "Grameks" and "Transport", in the centre of Srema, whose price was over 10m euros, and where are the thousands of workers, minority shareholders practically lustrated from these factories, and the property belongs to the persons who should not have belonged to it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18330	Time. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Konstantin Arsenovic and Mladen Grujic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts from items 14 to 18 of the agenda. We move on to a joint single search on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Council on Higher Education; Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Education Council; Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Republic of Election Commission; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in items 14 to 18 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. You've received a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Higher Education; Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Educational Council; Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Republic of Election Commission; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, MP Vladimir Cvian, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 14 to 18 of the agenda. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break. We continue our work at 1600 hours, until we get the government's opinion on amendments to the legislation in the field of education, and until when the committee in charge will report.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18331	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. We move to the first item of the agenda - PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON BASE EDUCATION AND VASSPITANJE You have received amendments to the bill by the MPs Ana Novković, Dusan Obradović, Radoslav Komlenović, Srdjan Šajnović, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Jovana Mechandžić, Gordana Komić, Maja Ristić, Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek, Dusan Petrović, Sanja Čeković, Miodrag Djidić, Boško Ristić, Milovan Marković, Nebojša Zelenović, Milica Banović, Milica Vojić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Zlata Djerić, Mirita Popović, Nata Mić, Nata Mić Mić, Nata Šović, Šovljeljić, Šovljan Žilić, Oštić, Osten Žović, Oštić, Oštić, Ostić, Ostić, Žvić, Žlažilić, Žović, Žalić. National MP Olena Papuga withdrew the amendments she submitted to Article 12(5) in writing. The draft law on 10 June 2013, and MP Jovana Mehandzic, pulled her signature from the amendment to Article 68, which was submitted together with MP Natasa Vukkovic on 11 June 2013. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18332	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 164, I could name a few more members. Chairman, I do not know whether you are aware that the parent committee has not considered amendments to these eight laws and that the Committee's session is still under way, that at that session there are more or less all of them, that is, a good part of the amendment that should defend them here, because the government has accepted a very small number of amendments, so I suggest that this session be held at 1600 hours and 15 minutes, when it is unprepared to work, but that we continue work when the Committee is done with the meeting. He's only half-worked and we can resume tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18333	As far as I'm aware, I'm ready to take a break, and the Committee has considered about 260 amendments of 330. So, most of the amendments have been considered and these first amendments already have the opinion of the Committee. However, I am prepared to include colleagues who are members of the Committee, I have no objection to continuing our work at 17.00 hours, I expect that by then... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Why don't we continue tomorrow? We've got a full day's work, no need to take a break all day and get back to work tomorrow. So, we're setting a break until 5:00 and we're back to work at 5:00. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I have another announcement regarding one of the amendments that I informed you was withdrawn. He was re-sufficient on the same day. It is about the amendment of MP Olena Papuga to Article 12(5). This amendment is another amendment that we will discuss today. So it's not withdrawn, it's in the process, so you have complete information. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18335	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which gives the president the opportunity to terminate the work of the National Assembly in other cases if the National Assembly concludes it. So the president has the opportunity to suspend the work of the National Assembly and postpone its meeting. President, I think all the conditions have been met. We are starting to discuss amendments to eight education laws in a situation where somehow this area is in a state of emergency, 70,000 children, 140 thousand of their parents, not to mention all relatives and all those who are upset with the fact that today's exams have not been conducted, that false tests have occurred, that have been bought on the streets and that they don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. We propose to the President of the National Assembly on behalf of the DS that you interrupt this session, ask the Prime Minister to, on the basis of the supervision of the National Assembly over the work of the Government, schedule an emergency session and to examine this matter urgently at that cabinet session and to submit a report to the National Assembly on this matter. All of this will be a waste of time, because today we cannot in one normal atmosphere discuss a set of very important laws, when basic principles on which every social system rests, which is justice, is law and order. So we're in a specific emergency situation in this area. Please interrupt this session and ask the Prime Minister to schedule an emergency session to discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18336	I am convinced that the competent state authorities, and the National Assembly is not, will examine all the circumstances under which it happened, whether there are grounds for the crime, who are the perpetrators, and who inform the entire public, and thus the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly has the opportunity to look for information and they'll look for it, but unfortunately, the speed that we could get information after the whole process would require that we don't work for two or three weeks. I'm sure that in one day, not everything can be explored and established. We have a set of important laws before us whose amendments have been discussed by MPs. Then the question arises why did the MPs participate in the work of the committee. You know, they've just taken part in the Committee's work that's given an opinion on 330 amendments. If they felt that the situation was irregular, then perhaps those people would not work and would not participate in the work of the committee. They'd say, "We're asking the board to postpone itself." The government gave an opinion and the Committee of the National Assembly gave an opinion. Although we received an opinion for the first 140 amendments, we could have started working at 1400 hours, but I wanted to respect the possibility that the Minister and members of the Committee would attend that session, and that's what's happening now. Every delay I think is irresponsible to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who expect the adoption of these laws. Any further delay in that, I don't think it's in the citizens' interest. As far as this information goes, the same way you do, I'm pushing for the truth of who did it, why it was happening, and I expect it from all the competent state authorities. So, if there were any crimes going on, I assume that the prosecution and the police will work together on it and that we, as MPs, will be informed whether someone has done any crimes with these tests, whether malfeasances have taken place or not. I think that's important. As far as this is concerned, I'm staying here and let's get back to work. The word is by MP Milica Vojić Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18337	Article 107: "The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "That applies to you, too, Mr. President. We are today on two occasions, we, the MPs who came here at 10.00 p.m. to the regular session scheduled, informed that today because of the extraordinary urgency of passing this set of laws in the field of education, the Assembly will be sitting down after 18.00 hours. I can't be ironic to ask what kind of urgency this is, if today at 17.15, instead of 10:30, when the set of questions is over, we're discussing it today? By the way, the government didn't deliver an opinion on the amendments yesterday. I guess the government cared about getting this set of laws passed as soon as possible, and today the Committee couldn't do its job. The dignity of the congregation is at stake by persuading us that this is a matter of urgency, of some importance, and you yourself do not respect these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18338	I absolutely disagree with you. So, I don't think a member of the Rules of Procedure is hurt. I don't agree with you that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. In addition to the urgency to pass laws, there is something called – the costs of the National Assembly. I try to make sure that when we call for meetings, we make sure that as soon as possible we convene, schedule and hold sessions to reduce the costs associated with the work of the National Assembly and all MPs. At the same time, of course, you will have the right and we will have the opportunity to declare this in the voting day when the National Assembly, as so far, will decide whether or not a member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18339	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 217. Rules of Procedure, and I invite you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, to apply Article 217 to stand in defense of democracy, to stand up for all those sacred principles that every normal man stands for right now in Serbia. I am aware that meetings of the National Assembly produce certain material costs, but that is much less than spending our lives. Given that this session has not begun, the resignation of the Minister of Education and Education and the reasoned resignation of his resignation, I call on you to collect 60 signatures from the MPs who can submit a proposal to vote for mistrust or individual member of the government. And be the first to sign that request to defend together the basic principles of democracy in this country. That's what I'm calling you because I want us to live in a normal country where diplomas are not bought, and admission exams are sold at gigs. I want this country to truly be a decent country, as your Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, and SNS President Aleksandar Vukic argues. Show your desire to honor this country. If you don't show that desire, then I will realize that for you from SNS it's normal for diplomas to be bought at the gigs, the president of the state, and then of course only the one who has the money to pay for the exam of his child's school, and that for the other people in this country, decent people, there's no room. This country has the right to have its children, its youth, its future generations living in a normal and decent country. Let's do this country together and apply Article 217. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18340	Of course, Mr Milivojevic, you know that on the basis of Article 217, 60 MPs can seek mistrust from a member of the government or government. Anyone who submits such an initiative is welcome to do so, because he has the right to do so on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and there is nothing controversial. I also ask the MPs, since I did not in any way harm Article 217, because I did not speak of it, nor of others, that they did not use the Rules of Procedure to make a replica or comment on the events that occurred today or at any time. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. I'll use my business powers not to allow the session to be disrupted. The session will continue and we will discuss the amendments on the agenda. The word has a folk emissary, Jovana Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18341	Good afternoon. I'm suggesting a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You owe it to Mr. President to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I point out the fact and also invite everyone in this room to do their job like we did our job on the Education Committee. In my presentation, I ask you not to qualify us and not to insult our will to work. Yesterday's session of this committee was scheduled for 15.00 hours, very well ahead of this session, in time to consider the 366 amendments submitted to this set of laws, which the government has instructed us to remind you, by emergency procedure. The capacity of the president of the Education Committee is to organise the work of the Committee and has been very good as long as the government's opinion for yesterday's session of the Committee has remained. The same thing happened and this morning at 11.00 a committee meeting was scheduled for the government's opinion to be gone. So I don't understand what business you're talking about, that we're not on that board doing the right thing? Look at the stenographic notes you just made. So I ask you and I appeal to you that there are no double arches here in the room for one, the other and the third and the fifth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18342	I'll make sure you get your stenographic notes real quick and you'll be convinced that I said the exact opposite. I said that the board members were working and that the board members were considering all 330 amendments and that they did not want to work they could have missed the board session, but wanted to do what they showed by their participation in the Committee's work that this topic was important and that it is important that they consider it today. That's all I said. I'm still standing by it. As the committee session took place and the board members participated in the session, giving the sitting legitimacy and wanting to try to show that what they were doing today is important at the moment. I'm all for it. My whole idea is to keep working because I think it's important to work. I think it's much better to work today than to go home and anyone who thinks he shouldn't be involved in the work of the National Assembly physically can't stop him, but we're getting paid for this. Mrs. Vojić Markovic, don't throw it out of the bench, pick up the word if you want to say something. So I don't think I've done any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18343	Thank you, Mr. President. So members of 27, 87 and 107, and with every response you give to the MPs here when they advertise the Rules of Procedure, you insult this Parliament's dignity, you insult every MP's dignity. Just before you said it, you violated this House's dignity, because you're keeping one completely banal fact silent, which is that MPs have submitted amendments to the provisions of the proposed laws a week ago. The government did not deliver its opinion, did not find it appropriate to do so until yesterday. We were supposed to start work today at 10.00 hours. When we started here to talk, it was 1700 hours. Can parliament treat the government this way, to the executive government? Remember that there is one equality here between various branches of government, between executive and legislative such as parliament. With each of your answers, you are literally allowing parliament to be humiliated. It is not enough to extend the time of debate under one law or on a set of laws, it is not enough to prove in this way some relationship to laws, to ministers, to parliament, but it is important that these laws really be cleared through one debate and determined what is good in them. (President: Time. ) So far, we have not had a valid debate over a set of these laws of educational matter. We had the Minister's monologues and the special monologues of the MPs. The minister did not find it appropriate to give any answer to the debates of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18344	Mrs Popovic, for two minutes and 10 seconds. First, I have to say, it's not true that the National Assembly didn't start at 10.00 hours. Absolutely not. The National Assembly today considered another part of the agenda. We finished work at 11.00 a.m., so that the committee in charge would consider and give an opinion on the amendments. That's what's done. I don't know why there's a need to point this far to the breach of the Rules of Procedure when we have a set of amendments, government opinions and committees and we can continue to work? If there are MPs who disagree with that and I can understand that, but there are MPs who want to work. I'm asking everyone else to give them a chance to keep working on the amendments, which is now the agenda point. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18345	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, this time I'm advertising Article 108. Rules of Procedure and Rules 27. The president of the National Assembly is taking care of the work at the National Assembly. Deeply respecting you as Parliament's president and all that you have done so far as President of the Assembly at the return of Parliament's authority, don't make us DS deputies feel like we want to obstruct this session. On the contrary, today we do not sit in a regular session. Circumstances are extraordinary. You represent the National Assembly and you're not a government spokesman. Don't defend the defenseless. Support our initiative to get rid of the minister of enlightenment. This is a scandal we can't get past. It takes a lot of courage, so put this item on the agenda today and expect us to act as if the situation in Serbia was absolutely normal and that no extraordinary circumstances have occurred and that hundreds of thousands of students, their parents, as well as professors who were preparing for the entrance exam should behave quite normal today. It's just not a normal situation, it's not possible. We're not asking you, we're asking you to defend Parliament's dignity, to be the real president of the National Assembly, not the spokesman of the government. Don't give us any explanations, because you can't defend undefense. I am absolutely sure and confident that you share our views and that you feel the same way as we, all MPs, are responsible for what happened today in Serbia. But someone has to bear personal responsibility. We really have to courteous and make this country a serious country, where they fail for this kind of thing, they fail, they carry political conconsequences. Otherwise, this will be just another one of the affairs that will cover the dark. Let's not let this situation happen again. Today we can make a cut in this country and never let anything like this happen again. Be a part of the man who will reform this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18346	I am convinced that individual responsibility will be determined for anyone who participated in what has happened today. I also urge the Government to inform us as soon as possible how it was possible to make such abuse of tests, who is responsible and to bear responsibility for it, but our responsibility is also to work. We can't wait for the government, nor can we be someone who's only waiting for what the government will do. We do our job, and other state authorities do their job and let us know. We move on to Article 1. The amendment was brought together by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18347	As regards Article 27, Articles 154 and Article 154 164 and 167. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is the president's duty to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. The fact is that in the ordinary procedure, the draft law drawn up in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure may be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session within no less than 15 days of the date of its submission. The fact is that, in accordance with Article 167, certain laws are proposed to be considered as an emergency procedure, means an emergency procedure, and an emergency procedure can pass a law governing issues and relations arising under circumstances that could not be foreseen. We are in the day when we started on the agenda practically began to discuss this by emergency procedure, and the fact is that the conduct of the Prime Minister is absolutely in contradiction with the proposal to discuss something by emergency procedure. If something needs to be debated by an emergency procedure, then it requires increased responsibility for each individual here, to make an effort to read something faster than 15 days, which is a regular procedure, to prepare, to submit amendments to something that the legislator has significantly greater capacity. The ministry and government certainly have more capacity to propose legislation than the MPs individually to see what is wrong and to make an effort to correct or correct the legal text. It is the government's conduct, where it is not acted in accordance with Article 164 as soon as possible, but much longer than it is necessary to give an answer to individual amendments, shows, I must say, indifference or lack of responsibility in discussing these matters that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18348	Time. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18349	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really tired of hard work, so I have to admit, so my attention has dropped, because today since 10:00, I've been practically sitting around waiting for when we're going to work. In Article 1, which regulates the subject matter of the law, we have an attitude 1 that says what is the subject of the law and what is to be done, we have an attitude 2 that speaks of this law being in conformity with the Constitution, with international conventions, agreements, contracts and other acts. All right, I can understand that you can write it in Section 2, although that's understood. But then comes attitude three, which I really don't think makes sense to be standing here, because it doesn't mean anything. I'll explain why and why I suggested that it be deleted. It says – the terms expressed in this law in grammatical male origin mean the natural female and male gender of the person to which they refer. I must ask you, gentlemen, were the laws that were passed long before this smart provision entered our legislation only applied to men, since there was no grammatical female in them? Of course not. They applied equally to men and women, i.e. the laws of education and boys and girls and students. Now comes what's offensive, and that's an explanation for why you rejected the amendment. I have to read: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that in the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in the overall historical development of the legal system and of the total society, the measures that will contribute to improving the position of part of the population in a more unfavourable position, in this case of female members. In addition, the existence of a provision which has been proposed by the amendment is in line with the methodology for making the rules." Now I ask you - how did you write here, that it applies to both female and male, contribute to improving the position of women, that is, in this case, girls, or pupils? Please explain that to me – in what way? Didn't we know we had students at school by now? Didn't we know we had teachers at school by now? Of course we knew and of course we knew that the laws applied to them as well as to the students. It's completely natural and normal. On the other hand, I remember very well when you, Mr. Minister, and your MP group at the time were opposition, as well as those who now look at me with wonder, as – as it bothers me, we have submitted the same amendments. So we didn't think there was room in the law, it's understood. These are the simplest things that stand out and have no place in the law. If it helps improve the position of women, I'll welcome him, but I can tell you it has nothing to do with that. This is another concession where you're shriveling, and there you won't and you can't stand whatever you think of writing in the law. There is no place in the laws of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18350	The word has been given by MP Sasa Milenić, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18351	On this particular issue, the gender sensitivity of the bill, I discussed in the debate in principle and praised the law exactly from that point of view. It is that the material intervention proposed by the MEP does not change anything in the scope of the law and in the conventions that the law produces, but the attention and respect of the legislator's intensities is worth the fact that we are keeping an eye on that quality and in the legal text, especially before it is an area in which this country has no reason to be ashamed in European terms. Indeed, women did not even have a political right to vote in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but in Europe we belong to a circle of countries that have made such a political right objective. Just to remind you that some cantons in Switzerland have allowed women to vote only at the end of the 20th century with intervention of federal authorities and international authorities. The fact is that in our culture, Svetozar Markovic wrote in the 19th century about women's rights and focused on the need for political sensitivity that this right cannot be a lack of legal text, because the legislator shows the need to take care of the fact, even though it is the fluidity of our culture, in both the normative language and the law-forming act. I think that's the advantage of this law. The URS parliamentary group is in agreement with the government's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18352	Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18353	Wait a minute, I'm looking for a replica. Mild to Serbian Laws Okay. [[President: I did not grant you the right to reply, you are entitled to the amendment]] By amendment. Blessed are the Serbian laws and Serbian schools if these are their advantages. I calculated that the advantages of having 25 students, that teachers have the right to various things, that students have the right to transport, to textbooks, to eat. I was counting on the rights that we need to talk about here today, that they have 20 classes of lower-class students, not to bury them with 30, so we can bridge it with some other forms of teaching. For me, it's the rights we talked about. This can't be the right thing to talk about for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18354	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18355	Thank you. I wanted the amendment to add the words "and disability" before the words "disturbation", because using the term "children with developmental disorders" and "students with developmental disorders" is contrary to Articles 7 and 24. Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Talking About Disabilities Children, as well as Articles 18, 19 and 20. A law to prevent discrimination against persons with disabilities. That's why I thought this word should stand in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18356	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18357	Also after the amendment. The DSS parliamentary group is fully joining this amendment. We will vote in favour of this amendment, because it is in accordance with what it says in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The fact that your law is not in line with that, and Serbia is a signator of that Convention, that's another thing. You say in reason, "It is not according to what you wrote in the law, so that is why we are correcting it." It's in accordance with the Convention you signed, and in Article 1(2), you say that your law is in accordance with the conventions you signed. You're not in line with the conventions. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities clearly states – children with disabilities and developmental disorders. You must make that clear in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18358	The 4th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18359	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. This amendment of ours practically refers to this attitude of the second and separates it into two parts. What we resent in attitude 2 where the following writes – a public school student can use books, school materials, transportation, nutrition, as well as accommodation when necessary, in accordance with the law. What's bothering us is the word "can" be used for free, so here you've listed all these things that you can do for free. But as soon as you use the word "can" – so it can, but it doesn't have to. We suggest that this second attitude be explained in two parts and that it reads like this – that a public school student uses books, school materials and transportation free of charge, in accordance with the law. So there's no way he can, but he's using for free. Then, the third attitude to read – a public school student can be provided with free food, as well as accommodation when necessary, in accordance with the law. I really don't see any reason not to accept this amendment. We have here broken down what by law to a public school student follows to be free of charge and what can be free of charge. Every school, or at least one should know the needs of students who come from social groups, who belong to those so-called endangered, as we call them, but simply know the social map of every family and student, so it can be school or local self-government to provide free food and accommodation when necessary. So this amendment of ours is really fixing this proposal for a member. One more thing. As my colleague said, that today's debate on amendments in particular is really happening the day that a very unpleasant thing happened for all Serbian citizens. I guess it's not easy for the ministry's representatives either. However, they are indeed the ones responsible for what we have today. Seventy students who finished eighth grade today went to school at 10.00 p.m. to take a math test. We're all parents, I guess you know how much stress and anxiety children have, but both parents and the whole family are obsessed with these tests. What would I ask the Minister of Education to use his presence here today, that he, if he can, explain to the citizens of Serbia and to us why this happened today? I'm not saying it was last year, but there were some indications that it happened. There was no further investigation, but there probably wasn't any evidence. There's obviously evidence for this today, as soon as you decided to postpone that test, that's tomorrow at noon. Also, another question for ministry representatives is – how much does all this cost? I have an amendment where I say it can be a free diet or a place for a child who needs it, and how much is this going to cost all the citizens of Serbia and nerves? We know it's all costing, but how much is it going to cost? What happened today, printing new tests for tomorrow? Do they print new ones or how? How are you gonna make sure this doesn't happen again tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18360	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18361	Thank you, colleague Banovic, for asking the question. Today I told the media representatives at 10.00 p.m., as soon as I set foot in this respected space what happened and why the commission dealing with this issue made a decision this morning. I felt that we should explain to the public why the commission made the decision and why it was delayed and shifted the math from today to tomorrow. In fact, a commission in charge of holding a small graduation from the Serbian, or native language and mathematics came into possession yesterday afternoon of a document showing that the math tests were falsified, all three tests. Yesterday afternoon they received different information from parents, by some students and representatives of individual media, and somewhere in the early evening they also received the document at their disposal and then they assessed and made a decision. This morning they had half a dozen meetings and decided to move the maths. There has been no valid evidence for the Serbian, or native language so far that the commission would consider and then bring an appropriate assessment. Of course this is bad. It's bad for all of us in the education system, it's bad for education in the Republic of Serbia. But don't you think the commission's decision is a logical response to the facts? Would it not be logical to say that, yes, the commission has made the only logical decision to move the laying and to ensure the fairness of the exams and to really ensure that all students show exactly what they know and how much they know from the field of mathematics and that they did in the right way. Today we made sure that the tests were printed. They are already travelling to school administrations, certain destinations and will be delivered to schools tomorrow afternoon. The test will be done tomorrow from 12:00 to 14:00 hours. I have to tell you that yesterday when we started getting that first information about the possibility that the tests were falsified, we insisted that anyone with any information to deliver it to the MUP. We immediately called the criminal police department ourselves and reported that there was a reasonable doubt, of course, during the evening that the document was already received, and it was done. The members of the MUP are now conducting an investigation to determine how this happened. We cannot, nor wish, seem to me that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has said what is logical – we have to wait to see who is responsible for it, because once it has to get in the way, it has to be seen who abuses the passing of small graduation, who forges that documentation and, besides money, whether there is another motive. Logically, there is a motive for one such thing and none of us from the ministry, nor the representatives of the commission, nor me as a resolution minister, nor will we, nor want to escape the question of responsibility. Just to determine the facts, let's see where in that chain of preparation tests for passing small graduations, where the tests happened to be forged, stolen and how they got to the public. As for last year, I have to remind you that on the day we passed mathematics, meaning the second day, we got information from two schools, from two anonymous parents and representatives of a newspaper house and that it was then found that the part of the document that was forged, so obviously somewhere during the preparation of that test and that the results, of course the school directors were checked, that document did not appear inside the school, the test unfortunately was worse than the average. So that document wasn't used in any way. Of course, we're not comfortable with this happening, but we think we've done it in a logical way. If we want to show who he knows and how much he's taught, then it's logical to move the math and see what tomorrow's tests show, and to give the Department of Interior's investigative authorities, above all, the opportunity for them to determine who did the crime and who was helping to commit the crime and to process it or you, as much as the persons involved, and the judicial authorities to say their word. We in the ministry are absolutely at our disposal. I want to tell you that the committee is led by my colleague, Assistant Minister Zoran Kostic, and I certainly know that he and other people, who are on the committee, have made the decision absolutely based on the facts that were available to them yesterday, because there are many, as I would say, lightly spoken words and conclusions that do not stand. We, after all, are all we can do and every piece of information we get forward to the MUP with the desire to determine as soon as possible who forged the documents, who stole it, and then we'll come up with other things. When it comes to the law, after the debate began, I did not tell MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia how much the amendment was adopted by the government. I would like to inform you that out of the 366 amendments submitted, the government adopted 51 amendments, from different parliamentary groups, from parliamentary groups that form part of the opposition parties and parliamentary groups that form part of the ruling coalition. Yesterday on the parent board we proposed a committee, the committee accepted and adopted seven amendments, as amendment committees and they would be part of the review. We have accepted all those solutions that, in our opinion, have improved the content of the law. We have accepted suggestions and suggestions from the Committee on the Rights of the Child, regarding inclusions. If you remember the principle debate, we talked about avoiding any ulterior or possible misrepresentation of the existence of special departments or of the abuse of learning distance rights and of the individual educational programme. We have accepted all these amendments that have treated this issue in a way that is in spirit with the content of the law. We have foreseen a wise centre, and we have foreseen a solution because members of minority communities have also asked whether the law is in accordance with the provisions of the law on the issue of the jurisdiction of the council of minority communities. An amendment has been adopted that also gives the Council of National Minorities the right to establish educational institutions. We also predicted that several units of local self-government could establish a common alliance for adult education, that class exams could be passed within the same deadline by students of the final class, so as not to waste time and give them the opportunity to finish school as soon as possible and to move on. We've adopted amendments related to the evaluation of schoolwork. I must say that some solutions are accepted under the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, so we felt that they should not be accepted in legal education and education or the Law on secondary education and education, meaning, in other laws. It was a methodology for the ministry's work. I would like to say one more fact, in the principle debate, which we had a few days ago, last week, which lasted a very long time, I said that it was very high-quality, all parliamentary groups, with the exception of New Serbia, used their right to speak within the time that the National Assembly approved by its decision. I think that's good. I've been resented that I didn't answer until the end, and during the debate, I was resented for speaking a lot at first. One can't agree with the other. On behalf of the promoter, I answered at the scene. I was in a position to see that some MPs understood part of their obligations in a way that asked a question without waiting for the end. You saw, I thanked all those who stayed until the end, realizing that someone had to come sooner, but I tried to answer all the questions on behalf of the promoter. In the light of these amendments that we have rejected, of course, those that are being accepted, and the proposal of the Proposer is being accepted, we have tried to give reasons. I think they're very clear. If there is any need, during the debate, I will also expose the ministry's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18362	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18363	Our minister of education is still an experienced politician. He covered a negative story about what happened today with a math exam, or a math test, with a positive skill, as the ministry accepted 51 amendments. I remind you, it's five very serious system laws. However, two laws are amendments and additions. When I spoke, I didn't think I said I resented the commission's delay or decided not to hold that test at 10.00 today, but to postpone the test for tomorrow at 1200 hours. If that's how you understand it, I apologize. I didn't even know Mr. Kostic was in charge of that commission. Today, he and the members of the Committee spent almost all day in the congregation hall, where we discussed amendments. Also, you mentioned that last year, when the tests were being conducted, I found out from the papers, but you said the school directors called and told you that part of the counterfeit test, not at school, but outside school, was said to be sold in parks around the school, etc. If you'd started an investigation then, that is, if you'd asked the MAP to examine it and see how it's possible that there's a part of a test in the street or in the market, or a complete test, maybe this wouldn't have happened today. So, those who did this last year, so they got away with it without being punished, where the guilty aren't even identified, it's not meant to be, it's nothing, it's like it didn't happen, they're encouraged, so today it's what happened. I think we should postpone the session for tomorrow, so there won't be any further problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18364	By amendment, MP Miljenko Deretta.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18365	Thank you. I, as an amendment promoter and as Mr. Minister, will talk a little bit about the amendment, and more about another accompanying phenomenon. In fact, we will support this amendment, but I would refer to what Mr. Minister said, seemingly unrelated to this whole situation, which is that some MPs have not fulfilled their working obligation, as long as they have not waited for the end and the address of Mr. Minister in the so-called debate. There was no debate, because it's a debate when someone talks, not when someone sits for 17 hours and listens while others talk. But I've informed myself about your exposure remotely, using modern technologies. Both are within the mandate and domain of your ministry's work. It was my free choice, which, as you know, seems to me to be Article 37, allows every parent, including anyone who's been educated for the rest of his life, like me. I don't think it's just us MPs who have been denied your answers, as you yourself have said, very high-quality exhibits and representatives of the position, i.e. The authorities, and the representatives of the opposition. The other parents of 876,222 students and 76,258 teachers and teachers and 27,346 outside school teachers were also deprived. They've all been waiting for important answers from you on the issues we've been opening and they've welcomed the answer they've received today, about what happened to the tests. It's unfortunately the biggest disappointment that's ever happened to us. I am pleased that you have now answered the question which has been opened here in a very dramatic way, but it seems to me, as it has been, and a few amendments have already passed, that this too will not be debated by amendments, but will be the presentation of those who have given and silenced, or should I say a lack of justification from those who have refused those amendments. I have to say that the reasons are most often, I'll be polite, not enough, superficial and wrong, but we'll talk about that when we get to the concrete amendments. I hope we get some answers from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18366	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Komlenović. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Komlenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18367	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we from the JS just want to point out in this amendment and define that this preschool preparatory programme is being done in preschool institutions. We accept extremely in schools, provided that the conditions of the sublegal act or the ministry regulation are extremely defined. We don't want a particular lobby to provide a legal space for getting and implementing a preschool prep program this time. The teachers are most competent to implement this program, which is defined by law as mandatory. Finally, after the programme has been achieved, only preschool institution shall issue a valid document on the completion of the preschool programme. No law mentions any other institution or school that issues this and such document that is a condition for enrolment of children in primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18368	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18369	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Obradovic, a fellow government member, the DSS has submitted this set of 141 amendments, which is about 13.5%. With these amendments, we wanted to fix this set of laws, and also to help you, Mr. Minister, as well as this amendment to Article 8 of this Law. For the sake of the public to read what we wanted to change: "A parent, or guardian of a student, has the right to choose a primary education for his child in a public or private school or distance education that can be chosen for legitimate reasons only with the permission of the ministry. ". So this is how we want to help you first, because we think that the living word is a living word and that we as socialized beings are best taught in society. Even if we have a high-quality lecturer, an educator, we can take that knowledge in a good way. It's very ugly to learn, except in exceptional cases, or to study remotely, because we think that learning through mobile phones, through internet global networks, is a aspect that primarily affects the psychological, social and economic aspects of students. For these reasons, we think that this amendment of ours is of great quality. In this way we want first and foremost some anomalies to be removed, anomalies imposed by parents, guardians, students. I'm aware that if the child is talented, he has to be educated remotely or, God forbid, if the child is sick. For this reason, we want the ministry to select and determine what groups these are, which are cases that can be trained in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18370	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18371	I'll get the amendment, too. So, in Article 8, the promoter is running for public school, i.e. state school, then private school, and then introduces two other models of education – home education and distance education. We all have to agree that public school, or state school costs, that it's not free, even though we like to say it, is free, but it's really free of charge compared to how much private school costs. In order for a child to attend a private school, a parent must separate very many thousands of euros today in Serbia. In order to attract parents and children, to have a child come to study in such a private school, the private owner of the school must also have a very high quality teacher’s staff. Where's he gonna get that very high-quality teacher piece? State schools, public schools. The private won't find it for him to waste money to have 25 students. There are 30 students in public school. Now let's say some other interesting things. So what kind of teachers are gonna stay in these state schools? Will there be any top teachers left who will be well paid? They're not well paid, they're not going to stay here, they're going to go after the bread. Who's going to stay in public schools then? Central and less quality, not to say bad teachers. Now you're introducing your parents' right to choose that his child is not going to school at all, not in private, not in public, but that a parent can educate his child at home, alone, in case a man who is capable, parents who are able to educate their child himself, or otherwise pay the teacher, one at a time, that his child learns it, that he doesn't torture himself, that he doesn't get up early in the morning at school, that he doesn't have 30 students in his class and that child is not tortured today by teachers who are in a mood. That's what parents say. What does this system look like to you now? It's segregation. You already have such schools in America, you have them in other Western countries, a public school that is mediocre and bad and that doesn't have to mean bad children. There are pearls of children and those who work hard, but there is no one who has the means to help him succeed in life. Then our children no longer have equal rights. That's the right I'm talking about earlier when I say there's no male and female right, but it's the right to have equal chances in life. They have no equal chance of being educated one-on-one, of being educated at a private school and of being educated at a state school. We all have to admit that. That's what it's like. That, of course, leads to a serious segregation. It's a serious segregation. I don't think that was your intention, but that's how it happened. That's the way it is. Now let's take a look at all the roles, other than education, there's school? One of those roles is educational, a group of peers. The second of these roles is the socialization of children, an extremely important role. Are we going to have that kind of role when that kid teaches home one at a time? We won't, of course we won't. Does society now have some new concept that we don't need the socialization of students in schools, that we don't need our children to socialize and grow up in another way? I don't think I'd agree with you. When I spoke in principle, I spoke from the point of view of inclusion and what it looks like from the position of a parent who wants to enroll a child in an inclusive school. There's no means to remove construction barriers, for example. Then there's no means of transport. Then there's no funds for local self-government for personal assistants. No funds for pedagogical assistants. I've been to a lot of schools and, believe me, this is a rule. There is no funds for local self-government to regulate the issue and the status of inter-resor committees. With all that gone, there isn't, there isn't, what do you think, are parents going to define themselves that the child is home schooling, if he's counting on it to be in the child's interest? I'm afraid this is very complicated and it's much more complicated than just what it looks like here when we make it look like a possibility for a child to be educated at home and it's not a concept that needs to be pursued by the state. I think every child has the right to an equal chance in life and to equal education in life, and the state really has to give it to him. One more thing. Here's how paradoxes happen in life. I wrote the amendment and stated that I did not want the issue of education to be regulated at home in article 8, and I experienced your response to what I said at an early afternoon hour and what I said on the Child Rights Committee at home, to study at home. There are MPs taking public transports home and these public transports, unfortunately, are leaving in an hour so I have to get to my house. I'm sorry, but I also think there's no discussion if you keep quiet and I'm talking. There's nothing there. I don't even have to be in the O.R., I can read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18372	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18373	Dear colleague, for many years I've been sitting where you sit and I've learned the rules of conduct in this respected home. Whatever the Prime Minister says, the opposition's representative will make a difference. It seems to me that right from your parliamentary group I was criticised for being exposed to the bill's reasoning for a very long time, and you used some more words, you or a colleague, Donka Banovic. I haven't read the stenogram, but remember one of you. I find it quite logical that if I talk to you that I have to take your advice, so find a measure and say something about what's written in these documents. With regard to the amendment you have submitted, if you look at Article 37 paragraph 9, you will see that closer conditions will be prescribed so that there is no abuse or use of this right, or, firstly, the way to use this right, and then, of course, prevent abuse. When it comes to schools, we have 1,263 elementary schools with out-of-state schools and we have eight certified private schools. These private schools were founded in the 1990s. Don't pour crocodile tears now that someone has defined that his child is going to private school and that has been defined to meet the conditions of the private school he attends. I guess that's his right and his own decision. If you think this way of learning wasn't a place, then you should have suggested eradicating that member in general, it's not controversial, but just to say, because apriori can't be concluded that the right will be used in an illegal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18374	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18375	Mr. Minister, what you're reading to us is what the five laws say, it's not an explanation that we can react to, we've read. That's what we read at home, preparing for the law, and we don't think it's important that you read it to us now, because we read it. Secondly, you're saying you've been taking advice from my parliamentary group, so accept the amendment, that's the simplest thing, that's your advice. Third, about prescribing special conditions, what is the rule or are the conditions for this exam being passed today, which was both last year and last year and that year? Since you're a minister, it's game rules. Now, this is the most drastic thing, but if last year's parents really wanted to take down that deposit system by the end, they could have done it, they had every right. Mr. Minister, the kids on Facebook showed it on Sunday, believe me. So, the fact that we're adults less informed, we don't watch what it says and where it can be bought, that's our right, but it's not your right, Mr. Minister, you need to know that, including your advisors.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18376	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18377	Thank you. I have the right to a replica, the minister called me by my name. It is true, when the debate was in principle, I was the authorised representative of the DSS on this set of eight laws. As an authorised representative, I had 20 minutes for eight laws. It seemed like I didn't get half the stuff, even though I've been thinking about how to even analyze eight laws for a long time, so I was talking, if you remember, about the objectives of the strategy, how it's being discussed through the laws. I only mentioned you and your time as an illustration that you needed it, I looked at the clock, about 80 minutes for that opening exhibition, 60, and I was only 20. It was just that comparison, and I didn't blame you. So, I think your exposure may have taken two hours, because it's eight laws. As for the time you've spent and the memories at all, I didn't mind, but I just showed that I have 20 minutes for all of those laws, and you've had unlimited time and you've used the clock. I don't think it's been long for this many laws that are very serious and big laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18378	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18379	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, involvement is precisely for the defense of this kind of description in a member of the possibility, which is only indicated and opened to the possibility of learning from a distance, i.e. learning at home. Let's make a joke, this is also important from the point of view of how the congregation was doing today. Since there was a break, I turned on the TV so I saw a change in the show so some farm goes there and a certain lady, I don't know what it's called, they warn it has to be sheep, whatever there is water, to replace water, because sheep don't drink hot water, they drink cold water. Like any expert who appears on that farm, she answers: "Please, modern tendencies are in both Thailand and Japan and America to drink hot water all the time. "The fact that our sheep don't know it, that's the problem. So this is a subject relating to the essence of the law, and it is extremely important that an option is created that essentially changes what these laws are dealing with. It is not the essence of these laws of preservation for social reasons, traditional reasons, with a whole series of frustrations and economical existing models and ways of education, but openness to those who care about how to gain knowledge, not diplomas, because in the society for which they prepare their knowledge will be checked, not diplomas. Therefore, the opening of this possibility, in a way very discreet, as it exists in the law, is very welcome. At this point, it would really be counterproductive to adopt such an amendment, and it was proposed by two great MPs, and for the first time I disagree with some of their amendments, which is hard for me because of you. The adoption of such an amendment would deprive us of these possibilities and would lead us into a situation that simply deprive us of entire generations of something, a matter of their choice and their parents and which does not necessarily have to be caused by certain tragic conditions, disease or any kind of prevention of students or parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18380	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18381	I'm not quite sure I understood Mr. Markovic, so I would ask him to explain his exposure. He, I don't know, asked for the National Assembly, a meeting, at home today, so he found the Farm. I'm going to help him, so the Assembly didn't sit because we didn't have the government's opinion that we've been waiting for for for two days, and today was a big problem, and you could have found it on all the news, Mr. Markovic, you didn't have to look at the Farm, context. So, there was a big affair with the fact that, according to the media, the tests that were guarded by long weapons were broken down. It is another affair of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which will not just become old so easily, although another affair is coming. I don't get it -- hot water, cold water for sheep, what does it have to do with today's theme, Mr. Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18382	Replica, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18383	Mr. Veselinović, I am at your disposal to explain to you, as in other cases, everything that is unclear to you, but there is no reason to burden the session that is under way, quite certain. By the way, as far as there's something on the news, I'm too serious to be informed on the news. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18384	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Anna Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18385	Thank you. In the principle debate, I also talked about learning remotely and at home. I think education laws should look somewhere at the future and catch up with technological development and modern information technologies. I then stressed that this kind of education should be by clearly defined rules. I really advocate that you can simply choose how knowledge is acquired, even knowledge should not be obtained in the same way, methods and means can be chosen. It is important that children acquire functional knowledge in a quality way. I just have a dilemma here whether the application of this member will lead to, for example, children with disabilities and developmental disorders being unable to exercise their rights in some way. For example, it may happen that those in charge of removing barriers in schools, providing personal assistants, teaching assistants and different kinds of support to these children, that this is simply an alibi for them not to do so and to say - you have this option and, well, it's better to choose. I think that would somehow lead to further discrimination and segregation of these children. Also, we need to make sure that maybe even parents don't abuse this. I've almost read some research where we haven't had a percentage of children forced to work or to have their parents force them to beg and, simply, we have to be very careful here. So, I support the inclusion of this kind of education, but to be by clearly defined rules, simply to protect children with developmental disturbances and to prevent abuses by parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18386	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18387	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, respected Ministry experts, I'd like to have a word with you first of all about your argument, which I absolutely disagree with. I accept the explanation the minister gave a moment ago, that it is already stated in one member of the law that there will be closer conditions under which this is possible and I would agree that you have cited this as an explanation of the rejection of this amendment. Already, colleagues have discussed the need for caution in this area. We all know, of course, that learning at a distance is necessary, that what is now and possible and necessary. But I think you all understand our caution, what our caution is really about. As I said, I accept, in part, the explanation the minister gave. However, your argument, since I know that this is usually done by the services, I do not accept because it is unacceptable to argue that this amendment is rejected because the child's best interest determines the parent. I have to ask you -- why is there a Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Children, if parents everywhere and always determine the best interests of the child? I have to ask you-- why is there a family law that suspends under certain circumstances parental rights, precisely because parents don't always determine what the best interest of a child is? Because of situations in which parents do not do so, it is necessary to do so by the state. Such mechanisms exist everywhere in the world, and they exist with us. We think that in this case it is necessary to activate such a mechanism because it is possible to find a situation in which a parent will misjudge that the best interest of a child or his best interest to keep the child at home, even if it would be better for the child to be at school, in a situation where he can socialise, in a situation where he can develop not only his knowledge and intellectual potentials, but also emotional and all others that develop in this particular situation. That's why we felt it was necessary for this situation to be exceptional. If you accept the amendment, you will only have this highlighted in the law, that is only in exceptional cases that will, of course, be determined by the member you have already cited. It's my contribution to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18388	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18389	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would ask you to listen carefully to the amendment submitted by Dusan Obradovic of the DS, which says - in Article 9(1), paragraph 1 - is amended and reads: "The primary task of the school is to enable quality education and education for every child and student, adapted to the conditions where the school is located, i.e. where education and education takes place". It is explained that the amendment is not accepted because there are certain principles, and one of these principles says that the education and education system must be provided for all children and students and that this principle implies equal rights and availability of education and education without any distinction on any basis. Now I ask all of you, and in particular I ask the parents of Serbia, who are facing this scandal today – do those who can pay for the math test have a more equal right and greater availability of education or not? Then you can see how far this argument hasn't gone, and it's not good, especially not appropriate today. You know, if someone has a more equal right to the availability of education, by the fact that they can buy a entrance exam test, what kind of equality are we talking about? He says there will be no separation on any basis. I don't know how long it's been for Tomislav Nikolic to get an academic title. Does anyone know how much a diploma is costing to Tomislav Nikolic, and was that diploma a fruit of separation? (President: Mr Milivojevic, the President of the Republic is not really the subject of this amendment. But it is his education.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18390	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18391	Let's get things back on this track so we understand each other better. As we say today in this day when some have a more equal right to education, the police will investigate all relevant facts relating to today's scandal whether these facts will be published by the police in tabloids and party votes or delivered to the prosecutor. And how do we react to this information from the police, when Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic today says he doesn't trust the police. I have a solution to this situation. In order for the right to education to be truly the right to education equally for all citizens, someone has to resign because of today's affair and scandal. Right now, in front of the cameras, you will be the first minister in Serbia's history to tell the president of the assembly today -- I feel responsible for this, and here I am resigning. Look, there's going to be a government reconstruction soon, he promised. You may be elected to another office on June 28th, but now resign. Especially since I see you've already found a solution to today's problem from the SNS. You say it's DS's fault, so at least it says on Twitter your high-ranking official. You say it's our fault from the DS. I understand that argument, but I don't accept it. I'd like to really take care of today's children's education day. Let's make sure there's a big coup going on in the world. Serbia does not need either Turkey, Brazil, or any riots or riots. We need a stable country that rests on the right. We need a country where my amendment to criminal law when I say - I propose a new criminal act of purchasing academic titles to raise participants in the election process, so that we don't get this kind of thing going on. When we have a suspicion that the President of the Republic bought a diploma, why wouldn't parents buy admission tests for their children in primary and high school? This can get in the way of very simple and simple, as in "Miss Minister" at Branislav Nusic, with the resignation and shift of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18392	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18393	It's June 18th, 2013. (President: I'm just asking you to say for the record, member of the Rules of Procedure. )107. Position 1. The speaker at your session must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Today is June 18th, the election is over a year and a few days ago. Please, I implore those who did not wake up on 21 May 2012 to do so both for their sake and for the political options they represent and for the neglect of this high house, because everything most disgusting, most suspiciously said, was said in the 2012 presidential and parliamentary elections. Anything that could have been thought of in some media magog kitchens that the SNS and presidential candidate and current president of the state could have gotten away from that position was done, but the campaign was over. The election's over. Serbian citizens said -- no more terror to the former government, the former regime. Serbia said we want Tomislav Nikolic as president of the state. Tomislav Nikolic, however much that hurt, is the president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Wake up and step out of that nightmare of election campaigns and tell lies and move forward. I don't get it. It doesn't fit if it's ten o'clock in the morning. He's not answering if it's working today. It doesn't answer if it doesn't work. You want to tell me what's right for you? What do we have to do? But you know what the problem is? Not if Article 184 will be respected. The rules of procedure are that some parliamentary groups are getting smaller and smaller, so they can't even collect so many signatures.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18394	Is anyone answering the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18395	I'm advertising Article 103. I think the abuse of the Rules of Procedure by the previous speaker was committed here because he was replicating me, and he didn't point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The only thing he said exactly without looking at the clock is that he hit today's date. I woke up a long time ago and you can't believe every day you don't know what worse news wakes me up in Serbia since Tomislav Nikolic is president. Is it a bigger budget deficit? Are the territory of the Republic of Serbia more traded? Is there more to be traded with admission exams and reception exams? Indeed, when I wake up in such a Serbia, I cannot sleep. But not because I can't go to sleep because one of my friends is going to leave the DS parliamentary group, but because this peacemaker who makes peace with the world as Oliver Antic says, this president who's going to make peace with the world, I guess he's going to make peace with his best man, Vojislav Seselj. I hear he will honor him with six MPs so the SRS can return to parliament again, and some will return the badges and finally be their calm conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18396	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the People's MP Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18397	I'm advertising Article 106. This is a private time to report to the Rules of Procedure because it seems to me that the abuse of reporting by the Rules of Procedure is at the expense of the subject that is really being discussed has gone beyond the measure of good taste. I must say that we are all awake here, Mr. Babic, we are all awake and we know what the date is, and the topic is not to prove that you know what the date is, but the theme of youth education in Serbia. (President: Don't rephrase to Mr. Babic either because it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I personally have no experience, I'm new, unlike those who have experience talking to each other. So, I apologize if I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, Mr. President, to return this debate to an extremely important topic, and that is the question of the law at this point in basic education. The one who won the election, we know, looks like the only ones who have to keep reminding themselves of it are the ones who won as if they still don't believe it themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18398	Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? The first line was held by Mr. Milenic as the head of the URS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18399	Thank you, Mr. President, just as an authorised representative of the URS parliamentary group, I must replicate although the subject we are discussing is more important, but it is a rudely injured view of the political views of the URS and the president of the party and the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, in the statement that he is allegedly, i.e., an inclusive and political party of the URS, dissatisfied with the work of the police and that there is no trust in this state service and the authorities. That's just not true. The fact is that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic explicitly expressed his suspicion that there are individuals who abuse information and knowledge from the professional work of this service or position in that service and through the tabloitisation of political speech and life are actually violating the reputation that it would have to enjoy. Before Mr Dinkic went public with that attitude, I will remind you of similar events in Kragujevac, we reiterated that the largest number of police officers are doing this extremely difficult duty. We see our neighbors in them, but that is no reason to overlook the abuses of their duties and obligations by non-secure individuals. As a reform political party, we are always underlining that we expect police reform, and everyone who enters these affairs can count on our political support but we are not any anarchist organisation that would support the general suspicion of the police as a state body, but rather the opposite as a member of the European People's Party and as a political party of the moderate right and how we can appreciate both the necessity and importance of the quality of the work of this state body.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18400	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18401	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have repeatedly listened to these stories about buying a diploma. So whenever someone graduates from college or some school, when it wasn't time, and it wasn't time for a hard life, because it's very easy when you're educated by your parents, and you don't have to fight for a naked life and a naked survival, so later you finish college. That is, according to my colleague in DS, the purchase of a diploma. So, if nothing else, I'd like to ask you not to mention it just because of that part about hard life. As far as that same degree is concerned, the question is now being raised, Mr Nikolic, the President of the Republic, graduated from college when you were in power. So now you can choose, or you're a corrupt government if you could buy a diploma or really graduate. One of those two, you have to admit it. You can't deny each other. So please leave those stories. As for these alleged abuses of admission exams and tests in mathematics and Serbian language, as you ask us not to investigate here, so leave it to the competent authorities to examine it. The same rules apply to us and to you, but obviously, in the heat, to get cheap political points, it doesn't matter the price someone will pay and that is the difference between you and us, because of the cheap political points you ruined the 2012 budget. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the city: I report to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18402	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18403	I would ask the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the Ministry's representatives, just advertising the Rules of Procedure in this way to get back on the subject, given that the entire debate has been going far from the topic for a long time, that individual committees are trying to obstruct us from the agenda point of discussion, given that we have a huge number of amendments to which we need to conduct a discussion, certainly a quality discussion, to improve the quality of the law. It is logical that these discussions should be sanctioned, because calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure which imply the abuse of procedural powers and misreading of the Rules of Procedure also deserve attention from your side, Mr President, or President, I apologize, in order to respond again and at least to warn the MP that Parliament should continue to act. I thank you and appeal to all MPs that we really return to the topic and spend this item on the agenda and realize it to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18404	I agree with Mr Jovanovic, I think we spent a lot of time calling for replicas. I apologize to all the applicants and Mr. Babic, Mr. Veselinović, but at this point we are moving on to the next amendment, I think we have discussed enough. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18405	I don't know why, Mr. President, you're denying us by Article 104 right to replication. There's no need to avoid any topic. No topic facing Serbian citizens, which is directly current and very current during today's day, should be hidden in a cheap and transparent manner from the public's eyes. As unpleasant as it may be, no matter how much it hurts, it hurts a lot less to argue on a day when it hurts, than if we leave what hurts to hurt for the next months, the years, and leave some of the misunderstandings behind. So, there's no need to diversify the discussion, but there's no need to run away from the unpleasant associations today, conclusions, and some things that obviously some MP groups are not comfortable with, and they don't know how to avoid them, so they're trying to avoid them by not talking about them. So, you should have given me the replica, because I signed up for the replica based on exposure and MPs from the URS and SNS, and we'd have something to say. This way I will have to report again to the other amendments and use my right to tell you again what I wanted and again we will not move on from the beginning, there is no need to prevent the MPs from speaking to the public in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18406	I have to say, it's not about prevention, because we've been having a discussion for almost 40 minutes that's a long way from the topic. I have allowed this debate to be discussed both on topical issues and on what today burdens Serbia and we have all highlighted our commitment to resolve this problem, but I do not think an infinite repeat of this requirement will contribute to the solution. So the solution is when someone directs the authorities to their knowledge and we wait for the prosecution and the police to give their answer. By reporting to thousands of MPs and repeating the same thing, we are not going one step closer to the solution, or we are moving away from the agenda, and it is my discretionary right to close the circle of replicas in such a way. Also, some MPs directly mention other people's messengers, and these people's messengers have the right to receive a replica. Some MPs mention parliamentary groups and have the right to receive a replica. If the MP does not mention any of the MPs or other MPs in his presentation, these MPs will not be entitled to a replica, because there is simply no business consideration, or if they have not been declared about their previous discussion to which they have been called. Also, I agreed with Mr Jovanovic about the abuses of the Rules of Procedure. Almost no one here was involved in the abuse, or violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was done by the chairman, or the President of the Assembly, but after the first sentence of a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured, everyone spoke in replicas of someone else who spoke at a session or whatever occurred to them at that time, it was the same injury of the Rules of Procedure. If we were to run the National Assembly like that, then I'd be in a situation where we can theoretically injure the Rules of Procedure for at least another year, so we can never get out of this room and make progress with any law. In my opinion, the point today is to discuss the amendments tabled by the MPs, which should fix the text of this law. That's why I'm asking you to go back to the law, because that's why we're here. The injuries of the Rules of Procedure, the replicas, we'll have plenty of time, we've had at least in this conference, I mean, enough debate on these grounds. The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18407	I wouldn't be entitled to the Rules of Procedure, I advertise. In 103 and 107, if you'd given me the word that you were in some way obliged to do, it was your turn. Namely, you gave a word to two representatives of the headquarters party, now I will not mention the explicit name of the headquarters party to this ruling coalition, which in an implicit way referred to our party, and you did not give the party a word. I just wanted to say that today's agenda is one topic that has coincided with today's daily event, when there's been a situation where the reputation of this government has been violated, that the legal order has been violated, and that it's not right that the headquarters party doesn't declare it, there's no position on this type of crime, but it's talking about a period of 10-15 years ago as well as when it comes to them. We just wanted to connect two topics that are exactly identical, that is, which are from the same area, but before that we asked that we do not come into this situation, to postpone the session, to propose to the Prime Minister to convene a cabinet session and to urgently discuss this matter, so that citizens in some way do not question the legal certainty and equality of all before the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18408	I just have to say about the SNS statement, I assume you meant that party, even though you didn't say that, but as far as the SNS is concerned, I made clear on behalf of the party what we think of these crimes and requested an emergency reaction from the authorities. As far as I'm concerned... (Janko Veselinović, from the post: You are the President of the Assembly. That's right, but I'm also the MP elected from the SNS list. So, I'm not elected here as a member of a volunteer society, I've been elected from the SNS list and as such an MP and today many have resented me when I debated, so they said I'm also a member of the SNS, president of the Assembly which is true, absolutely correct. As for the call, I think you'll also see by the stenogram that SNS and DS MPs almost identically had the right to replicas during the previous process. Some MPs appeared a little more, more people spoke from another group, but in numbers you will see that your MPs had more. So I don't think that's how I made a mistake, because I think the point is done. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18409	I think they should have accepted this amendment. The amendment refers to the position of the 2nd member. The title above article 9 is the school's task, so the promoter says in point 2. that persons who perform educational-experienced work and other persons employed at school will especially promote equality among all students and actively oppose all kinds of discrimination and violence. With the content of this attitude, I don't mind, but I suggested that it be reshape and that it reads: "Faces who perform educational and educational work and other persons employed at school will promote equality among students in accordance with the Law on Prohibit of Discrimination. "I believe that the words "actively oppose discrimination and violence" can have different meanings for different people. I'd like to ask the minister what it means to the minister that someone actively opposes violence or that someone passively opposes violence? It's something you can't tell if someone's opposed or if someone's passively opposed. I don't think it should stand in the law, especially since we have a director who can probably determine it and say that the school's employees have not actively opposed discrimination and violence and that it can have other consequences, whether it can be treated as a minor or more serious breach of labour obligations. So it's just not good that there's something in the law that you can't define. One person is an active opposition, and one would be passive opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18410	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18411	And I would like to say something about this amendment, Mr. President, especially what the law says: persons who perform educational-experienced work and other persons employed at school are obliged to treat all students equally and to actively oppose any kind of discrimination. Now we can add violence by promoting and raising the highest degree of tolerance and humanity, as our colleague Zlata Djeric said in her amendment, and now I ask teachers who will come to school tomorrow to return to the math exam whether they will treat all students equally, both those who have bought solutions and those who have not bought solutions or will not treat all students equally? How, say, will they act if a single president of a country who is suspected of having bought a diploma, treat him differently from other parents, or, in accordance with his profession they have to defend, have dignity to guard, say – it is not good that the tests are sold on the street, so that they are organised within the union and that they seek the resignation of the minister, because this situation is not sustainable? So, if someone wants and wants to do educational-experienced work and is actively treating all students, to actively oppose any kind of discrimination and violence, to promote the highest degree of tolerance and humanity, then they cannot close their eyes to the fact that in this country, tests for admission tests have been sold back in years. There is no educational worker who can defend the dignity of the profession in front of that fact and there is no MP of the ruling party who can come out and give us a lecture that we have not woken up and there is no member of the ruling party who can tell us – you are wrong to call one president of a country and question his academic calling. Here, there's the Minister of Education, so let him answer us. Ask him how someone got an academic title, don't ask DS MPs. They didn't sell their diplomas in the government. Ask this guy who bought the diploma, don't ask us that. But there's no defense of professional dignity. There is really no way to treat all students equally if some are more equal before the law, if their parents are rich enough to buy them tests to solve math problems and math tests, and others are poor and can only rely on their efforts, elan, on what they learn. If some are more equal before the law and others are less equal then there will be nothing there from that job. Of course, I have to ask the question again -- how are we going to believe that equality will defend the police if they find out who's guilty when the finance minister says I don't trust the police today on the B92 news? He says I don't trust the police. I wouldn't want the tabloids to reveal the name of the culprit first. I want the defendant's name in front of the D.A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18412	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18413	I'm advertising Article 106: "The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. "I respect when the MP is preparing for a item on the agenda, whether it is a debate in principle or a debate in particular, but I also cannot accept and cannot stand to see someone today, even though amendments to the Law on Fundamental Education are being discussed, speak of the Law on Higher Education. Miss again. Now it's not a failure of the year, it's a failure of the law. Please, President, in future warning, be some people to talk about the agenda point, about the law on the agenda. True, we live in a country where one mayor of the largest city can buy, buy the whole media space, lead to the edge of the existence of people who work and live and feed their families out of it and nothing. We live in such a country, unfortunately. I ask you at this session, for the importance of the laws on the agenda, to warn the MPs who have failed the laws that are being discussed today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18414	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18415	The replica because a colleague who spoke from the DS obviously didn't learn how the state works. He doesn't know we have several branches of power. One is the legislative authority, that's us here in the Assembly. The second is the judicial authority, which we're trying to reform, afraid of making the mistakes they've made. The third branch of government is executive power. This is where the executive government controlled the DS. Now there's one question -- when you question the credibility of your diploma, why didn't you check it while you were in power? To make things worse, you've been checking, turning upside down, shaking out, looking for where the cartoons, the marks, checking the birth numbers, checking the exams, and you couldn't find any illegality, but the easiest thing to do is to go out for this pay phone because you know you have immunity and to tell lies and to know that they're lies. Even during the campaign, your coalition partners waved that degree. As early as the campaign, the educational inspection established the credibility of the same degree. So please, if the only problem in implementing this law is the diploma of the President of the Republic of Serbia, then we are on a good path, and what you have been leading us – we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18416	Mrs. Kolundjia, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18417	Mr. President, I think you've violated Article 107 in the most brutal way possible. You are truly responsible for disrupting the dignity of the National Assembly. If, above all, you, as president of the National Assembly, not as an MP and someone who defends SNS positions, if you want to defend attitudes, step down from that place, sit down on the parliamentary benches and defend your party's views. You can't do that from the president's post. It is quite clear to us that it is impossible to defend what happened today and that this is why you are trying to cloud everything that is the subject of today. If we're talking about a set of education laws today, and if there's been serious corruption in the education system today, because it's corruption, it can't be anything else, then you, first of all, would have to come forward, as the biggest fighters in the fight against corruption and say this is corruption that can't be tolerated. No, you defend corruption in higher education and you think it's legitimate and it's not to be talked about because the subject is basic education, to cover the fact that if there is corruption in education and the possibility of buying tests and diplomas, then it doesn't matter whether we're discussing the Law on Fundamental Education or an education system in which there is serious corruption, where even the president of the state has a suspicious degree.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18418	Unfortunately, since there is no vice president to repudiate me, I am forced to answer from here. I have no choice. You mentioned a violation of the Rules of Procedure relating to my work. So, the moment I spoke, I didn't want to talk about myself in the third person. But on the question of MPs from your MP group about what I said, I said it was an incorrect interpretation that there was no SNS position, because it was said in a direct transmission. I couldn't let something that wasn't true be said. So there was a SNS reaction, as one of the parties in this House. Not wanting to talk about myself in the third person, I said it was me. I think that's the only difference. As far as activity is concerned, I think we've talked enough about it and that this ruling majority has also shown that the fight against corruption should not be just in words. I think you're up for it, too. So those who have done some corrupt work, should be brought to justice, should be investigated, should be arrested. But I don't think we're going to change anything about the laws that are on the agenda tonight. We need to finish the amendments that have been submitted to five or six laws that are on the agenda today, two of which are not subject to amendments. We have 360 amendments to process. So I think we should get back to the agenda because it's in the best interest of these kids who are in schools and these parents and those teachers. Is there anyone else registered under the Rules of Procedure? (No) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18419	Mr. President, I'm really sorry, but you had to know the Rules of Procedure and your rights and obligations. Now you've violated in the worst possible way Article 103. Article 103 of you, as president, obliges that when a MP points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, your only job is to explain why you feel that the injury has not been done and that is the only thing you can do from that place, not to defend the views of any political party. You have the head of the parliamentary group, although I see that neither two are enough to explain the position, and then you have to get involved. But what you can't do is you can't explain from that place the views of the party you represent. I only expect from you that if you feel that the injury has not been done, explain why you think it is, and if the MP who pointed out the injury is not satisfied with your explanation, rather than with the explanation of the position of your political party, because it was not our topic, then the MP has the right to ask in the Parliament's vote day to declare it. I ask you to safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly by first learning the Rules of Procedure and second, by truly respecting it consistently.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18420	You didn't understand me very well. When I was talking about it, I did not explain the position, I just said that the attitude was out, because it was a violation of the material right or of the fact that something was said in the congregation and it was claimed that it was not spoken. I was just explaining that something like that happened at the session. Otherwise, if I had gotten involved in explaining my party’s position, I could have talked much longer and much more substanceically about everything that was going on and how some things had happened. But I didn't do it because I'm in this place. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. In addition, Article 90 gives me the right to provide specific explanations and notifications regarding work on session and other issues so that, using this right in Article 90, I have given all Members of Parliament notices concerning all the issues raised in the sitting that are under way. Of course, in voting day, we'll get to the bottom of it. Mr. Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18421	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Whether we are enough to explain to a fellow member of parliament or not, we are not here to explain to her, we are here to represent the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are here to be trusted by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This shows not research but the results of all the choices that have been going on lately, so we don't really fight for the favor of the previous speaker. Are we defending something that happened today? No, I don't. Are we proud of what happened today? No, I don't. Is this room supposed to be a courtroom and we're all prosecutors, lawyers and judges? I'm surprised someone in his prefix has "democratic", represents such ideas. Against what happened today, they need to fight, and they call their own court the competent state authorities. Whoever did this day, but even these years, that kind of thing, has to fit, and there's no one here that's protected. Whether it will help in this fight and in all that the congregation does not work today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow – no. Will it help that we are discussing today in particular the Law on Fundamental Education and Connecting the Law and the President of the Republic, although the only link between the President of the Republic and that law is the constitutionally guaranteed category that this law will be signed by the President of the Republic if it is voted in this highest, legislative House? Then it's okay to insinuate for some things. Then it's democracy. A reminder of the agenda and a reminder of the law on the agenda is considered to defend corruption. There are some things very mixed up here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18422	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He's got the word of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18423	I am sorry, Madam Chairman, the president who has just left this assembly, because he obviously admits that he is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, has injured the Rules of Procedure again because the previous MP has called for Article 104 which explicitly speaks about the right to replication and the President of the National Assembly can only give him the word as a right to replica if he estimates that there is a reason, if someone was insulting to the parliamentary group, individuals, he was presenting personality data, etc., which has not happened. If you really want this session to have a current that is important for the points on the agenda, respect the Rules of Procedure and do not allow your parliamentary majority representatives of the parliamentary majority to, in fact, withdraw their own debate from what is today's topic. If you look at who actually dragged the debate, then you will see that the MPs of the ruling majority have done so, and the MPs of the opposition have talked about the law and the problems that are related to education, which is our subject, and they have returned to some topics that have nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18424	Thank you. Mrs. Kolundjia, you spoke for a minute and 19 seconds. I remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure under Rule 103, at the beginning of your statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, you are required to make known a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. Since you didn't do it, I have no obligation to give you an explanation. This time you've been saying, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have to subtract from your MP group. Is anyone still reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18425	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the previous speaker insists on the agenda, respect for the Rules of Procedure. I didn't know the president's diploma was on the agenda. That's your MP first started that topic. Are there any grounds for doubt that someone has misused the right to pass math tests? If there are, I call on all state authorities to act on this, based on these doubts, and if anyone has a responsibility, to bear legal consequences. Also, when someone mentions the fight against corruption, there are also reasonable doubts in the Agrobank case when 350m euros were robbed. There are also reasonable doubts in the Vojvodina Development Bank that someone also robbed some 150m euros there and that it is the head of the province's government, Bojan Pajtic. Also, there are reasonable doubts that the privatisation of "Luke Belgrade" has led to abuse. Also, there are reasonable doubts that Azotara was involved in the work of the then agriculture minister and that he robbed several hundred million dinars. Also, there are reasonable suspicions that the Adi bridge cost 300m euros more and that the money was put by the current mayor, otherwise the president of the DS, in his pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18426	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18427	Honored Chairman, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110 and 111. You have abused this Rules of Procedure in the most cruel way possible. You've allowed the speaker to injure the Rules of Procedure... (President: Mr. Veselinovic, you did not listen to me. I gave Mr. Arsic my word based on the replica. You let him speak... . (President: Yes, I let him speak, I didn't allow him to get hurt by the Rules of Procedure, but by the replica on behalf of the SNS). Whatever. That's not the point. You've allowed Mr. Arsic, the head of the parliamentary group, the headquarters party, to speak in an offensive way about people who aren't here, the most disgusting lies. That is what he himself knows, opening up now in this congregation unlimited number of replicas and reporting to the Rules of Procedure. So you're making a circus out of this assembly. You don't do it by accident. You want to distract yourself from what happened today. But it cannot go unpunished, gentlemen, above all by the chairman. How can the head of the parliamentary group in this way, as you tolerate such behaviour as the head of the parliamentary group, speak beyond the subject and speak offensively, insulting this home, about people who are not present here with the most disgusting lies? You should have given Mr. Arsic a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18428	Thank you. Mr. Veseinovic, I would like all members of all the parliamentary groups to speak on the agenda. Unfortunately, from all the parliamentary groups today, there was a theme wider than what it is. I really believe that the president of a parliamentary group who wants to replicate has the right to replicate. I really don't think that hurt the Rules of Procedure. You, if you think so, have the right to state that in the day to vote on the injury. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. ) All right, in the voting day, there will be a vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else picking up after the Rules of Procedure's injury? Yeah. Mrs. Kolundjia. Just to remind you, there aren't many members of the Rules of Procedure left to call.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18429	If you knew the Rules of Procedure, then you would know that this is not about the fact that the MP cannot point to the injury of the same member of the Rules of Procedure, but cannot point to the same breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, if you've hurt the Rules of Procedure again in the meantime...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18430	Mrs. Kolundji, it's your interpretation, but I'll let you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18431	That, Madam Chairman, is not my interpretation. It's literally in the Rules of Procedure. If you read the Rules of Procedure a little bit, you'd know that. So it is that the MP cannot point to the same injury, not to the same member. That's unequivocal in the Rules of Procedure. So, you've injured Article 107, and you've really hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, because you've allowed a replica to be given to the head of the parliamentary group, and even though there were no offensive expressions about it, about individuals, about individuals or about a party in the previous speech, and not only have you given him the right to a replica without any basis, you've allowed him to represent things in his presentation that have nothing to do with anything, except that they've formed a suspicion of anyone who's from the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18432	Mrs. Kolundjia, for the second time, you're not talking to a member of the Rules of Procedure that I've hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18433	Article 107. Please listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18434	You mentioned Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18435	Please, there's a stenogram and, please, listen. If you don't already know the Rules of Procedure, at least listen to what the MP says. So I unequivocally said that you had injured a member of 107 and that you had compromised the dignity of the National Assembly. I even explained why I think you hurt article 107. I really ask you, if you want this session to continue as it should go, do not allow it to be allowed, by advocacy to MPs of the parliamentary majority, to what is the most severe violation of the Rules of Procedure and to insult people who are not present and to whom this topic absolutely does not apply. If we need to talk about the subject and what's the problem, there are people here and there are people who are really talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18436	Thank you. I've already explained to Mr. Veselinović. You could hear it. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 104 has now been violated in the presentation of the previous MP, because the chairman did not warn him. It's a real replication use. It says nicely in the position of the 3rd of that same Article 104. - the use of the rights referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly. It was at a time when the previous speaker, this provision was introduced into the Rules of Procedure, which he voted for with both hands, and it is called the discretionary right of the chairman, with the discretionary rights of the chairman who she supported. Therefore, the same rules apply to both the SNS and the DSS and all other parliamentary groups and political parties that are in this parliament. Don't deny us that right. As I said at the beginning of my previous presentation, the subject of the agenda was not a diploma of the President of the Republic. There was a suspicion of her credibility. I've raised other doubts. The right to replica allows me to do so. You can't ask for the right to replica to be on the agenda. It is those who know nothing about the MPs, nothing about the National Assembly and nothing about parliamentaryism. Let them learn once, because it seems to me that the entire previous term has sat here voting for laws that didn't even know what it says, but that's their problem, it's not ours. Slowly, you have time, 13 years of parliamentary standing in the opposition, you need to get to that level of parliamentary democracy that we now have.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18438	Thank you. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word is a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18439	Madam Chairman, you've injured Article 103. Article 103 makes it clear that the breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be manifested by pointing to the injury now committed by the president, or chair of the National Assembly. The previous speaker pointed out that the MP of another MP group, which does not matter, had been injured by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure cannot be harmed by the MP, who may be the chairman, who has allowed the MP to speak things that are not on the agenda or which any other member has broken. Please listen to what the Messengers say. If you do not draw attention to the MP who says that the previous MP has injured Article 104 and you let it pass, then you are the most gravely in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, if we're going to sum up the results of previous governments here, then I think it's a good thing we survived your rule in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18440	Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't think I've hurt a member of the Rules of Procedure, and you've used part of your exposure for replication. I ask the MPs to continue to talk about the subject of the agenda, which is really very important. Mrs. Kolundjia, if you'd like to make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day, would you plead? (Hope Kolundji, from the city: I want to. Do you want to? Yeah. All right. Thank you. Please continue on the amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18441	Madam Chairman, risking the risk of being answered by all three heads of the SNS parliamentary group and this gentleman who threatens to survive the SNS rule, I am always ready to use language of accumulated pride and primitives to oppose the language of arguments and facts. The language of arguments and fact is very understandable, even for those who would defend democracy. I can imagine what would happen to democracy if it wasn't for you to defend it. I remember that time with you when we were in a democracy up to our necks. Here's what the law and amendment says - persons who perform educational and probationary work and other persons employed at school, are obliged to treat all students equally and actively oppose any kind of discrimination and violence, that is something I would suggest as my amendment, promoting and raising the highest degree of tolerance and humanity. I ask again – do you really underestimate us in today's day, or do you underestimate us from the DS, or do you overestimate your strength? Today, people who voted for both the SNS and the SPS and the DS and the URS and the white ballots and those who did not vote and those who voted for Boris Tadic and those who voted for Tomislav Nikolic in the presidential elections and those who voted for LDP. Today, in this country, the basic principle that education is available to all and not to those who are willing to pay. Today, teachers must defend the reputation of their profession. Today, students have to defend their schools. Today, the DS must defend the foundations of the postulates on which every democratic society rests. You might realize that, maybe you don't understand. You may understand the seriousness of the situation, and maybe it's all a joke to you. Maybe this is a principle for you that was proclaimed by one of the presidents of a state when he bought his diploma. Maybe that principle for you is the basic principle of education. Perhaps for you, the principle of education that a president in this country said -- I didn't graduate from college at the time because it was not a good university law, so when he was last in government and passed the most embarrassing law on the university in Serbia's history, but today we can't discuss the law on basic education and pretend that nothing happened in the entrance exams. If you expect us here to be dead nature, and some want us to be dead nature, to tell us you haven't survived the rule of SNS, proudly raising your hand, threatening us, so we weren't afraid of that finger... (President: Mr. Milivojevic, please let us go back to the topic of the agenda, so that we do not go back into the circle of replicas. I thank you. I'm just finishing up. We weren't afraid of that finger when it was pulling the trigger, we're not afraid now that it's empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18442	Thank you. I just have to tell you, Mr. Milivoevich, that you've read the next amendment. So it's not on our agenda yet, but I let you talk. Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18443	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not answer any more replicas. Apparently, some of the things about that people's "free is a deaf whisper and a stalemate" don't apply. I'm asking the DS not to defend us against organized crime and corruption. I'm really asking you that. While you were in power, that was so blooming. As for those threats, I don't know who threatened you and whose fingers were on the trigger. I think you should be in parliament, especially some MPs. It would be so boring without them. They would have passed laws here without a single smile. It's obvious, and it seems to me that today is a very strong sun, so someone is mixing a difficult life with the law. Take some, when this sun goes down, think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18444	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18445	Chairman, I'm advertising article 107. The speaker is obliged to have the dignity of the National Assembly. For the second time, the chairman, i.e. the head of the SNS parliamentary group, refers in an offensive way, or talks about MPs in this assembly. I believe that by not doing anything from the authority given to you by this Rules of Procedure, you are humiliating this assembly and returning it to a period of the '90s, when they were really burning and burning and threatening, as a colleague said, and pulling the triggers. If you're listening to some testimony these days, you can hear it. The chairman, please. I once again use this word, please, to warn the MPs of the ruling coalition, or the main parties not to bring here a speech in the '90s, hate in the way we thought was behind us. Alert, abort this session, call the heads of the parliamentary groups for a deal. Chairman, this isn't really funny. Please warn the head of the parliamentary group, who, for the second time, is insulting and talking about the MPs of the opposition, because otherwise we will have to get out of the room and consult whether we will continue to participate in the work, with your presidency.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18446	Mr. Vesenovic, the previous speaker who caused the replica, was just talking about something that wasn't about the agenda of the session. Mr. Arsic replicated his exposure. I ask all MPs, not only MPs of the position but also MPs of the opposition, to take care of the topic of the agenda in their presentations, so that we all together respect the dignity of this house. I think we all have that responsibility, not just the chairman. Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic, on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18447	Dear Chairman, I am simply shocked by this debate when it comes to Article 9. The law on basic education and education, for the reason it speaks of the primary task of school. The primary task of the school, as stated in this article of the law, is to enable quality education and education for every child and student under equal conditions. I believe that both our parents and our viewers are amazed at what we're talking about, instead of Article 9 about the task of raising, of education, not some kind of conclusion. We've been using it for an hour outside of this law. Please, gentlemen, let's take three things off the agenda in this assembly. First, you opposition gentlemen, whether you agree with it or not, Tomislav Nikolic is the president of the state and he is for you and for the president and let's take it off the agenda. Secondly, also don't mention Mr. Vojislav Seselj anymore, let's take it off today for centuries and for amen. He is for you who he is, for me personally he is a Serbian hero. Let's leave it to history, let her say it. Third, I'm going back to this basic task now. As you can see, the basic task here is education and education. Perhaps, gentlemen of the ministry, we should reform, perhaps, these amendments to these MPs that have submitted, that it is not the primary task of education and education, but of raising and education, to give more emphasis on the word "request". We thus prove and define our relationship to education and education. If we had done so in the past 15 years, some MPs would not have burned this assembly, which is an expression of disquieting, and had not burned it, we would never have been MPs here today. It is also a reflection of the lack of questioning to force its president into The Hague. If they hadn't done that, we wouldn't be talking here today. Furthermore, let me say that this Article 9 is very acceptable by the Minister and the Ministry of Education and there is no reason to accept these amendments, because amendments by Members of Parliament essentially do not change the essence and essence of Article 9, which is the mission of primary school. It is very good that the amendment highlights the fight against discrimination. It's big things to regulate the law for the first time. Teachers in elementary schools will work out specific tasks in this basic task, both class communities, schools and overall plans. To finish, I support this Article 9, and I'm not for these amendments, and I don't think they really make sense, because they don't change the essence and the core of Article 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18448	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. The government and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18449	Ladies and gentlemen, in a rather distant discussion, we are still on Article 9th and 12th of the amendment. Article 9 deals with basic tasks of the school and has only two positions. I suggested that my amendment amend Article 2. The amendment was rejected with an explanation that he did not change the essence of the members. I really didn't want to change the essence of a member, I wanted to make it applicable. I hope that Mr. Minister will now change his mind and I will just try to prove to him, because Article 2 of the bill says: "Faces who perform educational and probationary work and other persons employed at school will especially promote equality among all students and actively oppose all kinds of discrimination and violence". "especially" is a relative term. You know what that is? This is something that can be interpreted in various ways, does not specify the law, must be imperative, and therefore, in my amendment, I say that persons who perform educational work and other persons employed at school are obliged to treat all students equally and to actively oppose any kind of discrimination. And you've predicted it here to actively oppose, but active opposition, if it's not specified, implies something that is unauthorized by other laws to teachers. Then we question some other forms of problem solving at school. That is why I am making further clarifications in this proposal. Therefore, they actively oppose any kind of discrimination and violence by promoting and raising the highest degree of tolerance and humanity. That's what they can do and what they're obliged to do and that's the only thing they're allowed to do. That's what the amendment would suggest changes to this attitude. I really hope the minister changes his mind and accepts it. In light of this, these discussions that specifically focused on the problem we have today, I have a duty to educational workers, to parents and children, to someone who has worked for years and prepared students for this exam, or a small graduation, as we have called it. I must remind the Serbian public that the problem has not arisen today. It's just the result of something that's been going on for a long time, when, as a society, we treat something that needs to be important and what should be the result of maturity. The first exams in 1993, 1994, 1995, were conducted as open questions, i.e. the students were preparing for exams and only on the day they attended the exam, they received tests they had seen for the first time. Then it's under the pressure of the public and the desire to do our children a bear service, so they don't have to prepare so much, by the way, that someone's doing their work well, they've made ready collections with finished solutions. The students prepared ready questions and answers. It's really a shame, I'm signing it, like someone who's been doing it for a long time, so someone can't handle it. The most average student, with a minimum number of lessons, can prepare it, and then they dared to move on. You know, the market is interesting, forging documents can bring back extra profits to some others. They dared to sell it, to sell that information and that kind of devalued exam. This is a culmination today, and she's a disgrace to all of us. Of course, the Ministry of Education specifically. We expect the Ministry to enlighten the names in the shortest time of those people not only discovers, it can be discovered by a police officer, it doesn't need this great extensive investigation, it's known that it's going and there's a way where it goes, that these people are absolutely out of work, everyone involved, because it's embarrassing. But I'm telling you again, it's a shame to the whole society as long as we've come to do a little graduation and wanting to devalue it as a serious test of maturity. It has long been a test of maturity, but a test in which we try to unquestionably teach our young generation that a serious test can actually be passed in the easiest and most irresponsible way. We're all responsible here. All the company. That's what we need to think about. I don't want to amnesty, not the Ministry, not the ones who did, just so we all don't get to look at each other, not to politicize it too much. That's our big problem. It is a problem that contains many of the problems of this society. This is just one page, one page piece in the picture of all of us and all of society and all of the problems we have now. That's what I'm obliged to say for both educational workers and parents and for the Ministry. We're all supposed to be blushing together. Those who did it directly, of course should bear any kind of responsibility, because it is forging documents and transparently to lose their jobs. Publicly, that we all know who these people really are. It's not always advisable, but in this case, precisely because of this young generation, of which it happens, the Ministry is obliged to implement it. The rest is already going by the hand of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18450	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18451	I speak for this amendment, less because it can be critically pleaded against or for, because essentially the proposal of the Government and the amendment are identical. It's possibly a finesse that can decide the difference. For me, personally, it is perfectly whatever form this position will be proposed in, but I think that the subject discussed by both the member of the bill and the amendment is too important for our Parliament, and for our society, to let it pass without contributing to our discussion to play a little longer and more significant, even in this parliamentary debate. The theme of equality, prohibitions of discrimination and the duties of public addresses and institutions, before all schools, to insist on implementing these values and resisting their endangerment. More specifically, the central value that is spoken of here, which is, in a long time, unsupervised, neglected, insulted, is what the poet Walt Whitman calls – the magnificent pride of a man in his personality. This magnificent pride of man is in the personality of every individual, regardless of age, religion, race, sex, or any other belonging. This magnificent pride of man is also found in individuals who sin. So procedures can be incorrect, even punishable. This magnificent pride of man is also in the personalities of those individuals who have committed a crime. They may be criminal proceedings, but this magnificent pride in the personality of every man is what must not defile and harm any institution, no political act, no public statement. That's why I think this topic is of exceptional educational importance, not just for young people, which we are preparing by passing this law, but for our public in general. Around it is actually the whole reform policy and the intention of raising the quality of life and understanding a clearer path to the future of the country and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18452	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? MP Srdjan Shane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18453	Ladies and gentlemen, I can accept this argument you've given, that it should not be complemented by this attitude that the school has the task of ensuring the safety of the students all the time in school, since it's defined by another law, but then it raises one question that has brought confusion to me. Is the primary objective of this member to define the tasks of the school or is it the primary objective of this member to define the school's task in the process of protection against discrimination? So if we're talking about school assignments, and there's another amendment here, then there's a confusion. We have school assignments here, so then we have goals, so we still have what's going on, what's the education goal, and then in a few places we're talking about things that are similar, but there are shades. In that sense, I would ask the minister just to see if we really wanted this member to define the school's tasks as it stands out in law, or if we were to define the school's tasks to protect against discrimination. In that sense, I can understand that protecting against discrimination is something much more important than some other school assignments, so here we wanted to focus on just that question and in that sense it is not disputed to accept it. If not, then the question arises – why do we take some parts from the Anti- Discrimination Act, so we bring them in here, and we don't bring some down from other laws here? Just for the sake of seeing what the basic message is here. In that sense, I can accept an explanation, if that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18454	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic and the joint MPs, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic, submitted together. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Maja Vidinović. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18455	Thank you. This amendment proposes a different definition, so that the student with disabilities and developmental disturbances, within the meaning of this law, is a child with consequences of mental, sensory or physical damage which, due to different barriers, does not have equal opportunities for equal participation in the educational-experienced process. The definition given here is obviously deeply rooted in the medical model of access to disability and is contrary to the definition of persons with disabilities from the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities and the Strategy for Improving the Position of Persons with Disabilities in Serbia. A few more of my amendments are similar and I won't talk about them because they're the same termologically. In Article 2, the word "when" is added to the word "extremely". I felt that this is how it should be defined because it is necessary to explicitly prescribe and stress that education in specialised schools is an exception to the rules and all in line with inclusive education. In item 3, after the word "plan", the words "and all appropriate forms of support and reasonable adaptations" are added. I felt that it was necessary to provide explicitly for reasonable adjustments and appropriate support for such children in the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18456	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18457	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would support my colleague Dusan Obradovic's amendment, as it applies primarily to young talents. Practice has shown that these things are not taken care of. I will again, precisely because of the present minister, mention student Theodore Von Burg, who unfortunately did not continue schooling in Serbia. If worthy athletes could get an apartment, why couldn't Von Burg get an apartment and a proper scholarship? As far as young talent is concerned about music school, I think the amendment is meaningful and that it is necessary to reconsider its acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18458	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18459	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you immediately that I will use the time of the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group. We've had a lot going on these days since we've had five laws in the field of education on the agenda. In the debate in principle and as an authorised representative and later in the debate, I stressed that the SVM parliamentary club was extremely constructively approached by these laws, and not once, if you look at the stenographic notes, I never said whether or not we would vote in favour of or against these laws, precisely because our decision depends on what position the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will take on our amendments. We have submitted 19 amendments from five draft laws to four. The good news is that the most significant amendment has been accepted. The bad news is there are more good and significant amendments that have not been accepted. I do not want to repeat myself, more colleagues today stressed what has been happening over the past few days and I am sorry that Mr. President is not in the room right now, but today, when we started the debate after several hours of competition, he said that we cannot wait for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We, as MPs, have been humiliated for two days, because that is exactly what we are doing, we are waiting for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday we came to the Education Committee, no matter how much savings are spared, because we didn't have the government's opinion. We've been waiting for someone's opinion to be signed today for it to arrive, to be copied, so we can work. Then on the Committee on Education, it's an extremely good practice, I'm not a member of that committee, but I was called as an applicant for the amendment, and we were racing over whether or not we were going to vote in the package, that all this was going faster, and then some suggested it, so they didn't know how to vote, but I don't want to do it. I want to take the rest of my time to say that I really haven't reported in to the Rules of Procedure, although there have been a number of reasons for that. We all insist on how important these laws are, a new school year is coming up, they need to be adopted as soon as possible and then we start the debate, instead at 10.00 hours, at 17.00 hours, and from that a minimum hour and a half to two discussions, i.e. in prime time, are led by the battle of two parties and perhaps one more. So, we, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone else was following this debate, we needed 366 amendments, 50 of which were adopted, to discuss at least a few, if we were in such a hurry, and we are currently at 19 amendments. You're going to let me start now a little bit, and I'm going to commend the Ministry, and then I'm going to point out what else should be done. First of all, Mr. Minister, I also spoke in the debate about the problems of education of members of national minorities. One of the big problems I've been talking about on the board before and here is the publishing of textbooks, or the lack of so-called. low circulation textbooks, including textbooks in the languages of national minorities. I got information last night that you signed what you were supposed to sign and that the question seems to be being resolved in a positive direction, so thank you. On the other hand, as Mr. Minister said in his opening statement, the amendment of the SVM parliamentary group, which actually aims to bring the law into line with the existing National Minority Councils Act, which adopted this high house in 2009, is indeed the most significant amendment relating to the founding rights that the national councils of the national minorities can also be founders of educational and probationary institutions. However, the amendment is on top of the law, not on this law, and we had a similar amendment to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, but it is important that it entered into the roof law and we hope that it will indeed in practice lead to the improvement of these procedures, because, and I have talked about it, they are already in the process of transferring founding rights from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Council of National Minorities. As for the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, if we are talking about primary schools, the procedure includes the transfer of founding rights to twenty primary schools. This is going very slowly, regardless of the fact that the national councils and the ministry are really nice. Realisation is extremely slow, and at least something should end before the start of the new school year. We really didn't get many answers. The debate in principle was long, exhausting. I have to admit, I couldn't be here at 22.55 p.m. when you guys finished your presentation. In my stenographic notes, I read what you replied. You said then that you would really try to keep all the education laws in line with the National Minority Councils Act. Unfortunately, we didn't have a proper debate on the board today, because you didn't respond to all the objections, regardless of what I was really trying to do to defend our amendments. What's not good and what else is important to think about and if it could be adopted within these few hours or a few days how long will we be discussing it? It is extremely important that members of national minorities have the right to education, both in primary and secondary schools, in their own language and in their letter, and this is indeed the case under the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in these laws. What is problematic is bilingual education, and as it is formulated here would be a disseminating of the rights of members of national minorities if in the proposal -- either bilingually or in its own language. So we suggested an old formulation, that it should remain as it was. In one part of our amendment, we have proposed to delete bilingual education, i.e. to allow bilingual education, and if it is in accordance with the roof law on the foundations of education and education systems and in accordance with the Law on the Rights and Freedoms of Members of National Minorities. Unfortunately, you refused this amendment. We think you should think about it because, in addition to the founding rights, this is really the most significant of all the amendments that we have submitted. You'd wonder why? You have the right to the Constitution. That's how it's gonna happen. But believe me, there are a lot of problems in practice. When something in one law is regulated like this, in the second place, it really takes a huge fight to get rid of it later on in the field and that no one really loses already acquired rights, because that's how it stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that once the rights acquired can't be lost. What you've actually responded to, but what you need to think about, and now I'm going to commend you, not to say I don't, is about the department where students are members of national minorities, which are less than 15 students. I really must say that in a huge percentage of cases where consent is sought for the approval of these departments with students less than 15, it is generally that consent and gain. Of course, it's not simple every year, because, unfortunately, demographic change is what it is. We're not just dealing with it, we're all dealing with it. The kids are getting smaller and smaller. We asked that if in the first grade we were already approved and agreed to this department, that this consent applies until the end of the first period of primary school learning, which means from the beginning of the first to the end of the fourth grade. However, we did not come to an understanding here. We don't think there'd be that many kids to move away from, that would go away. We believe that if that class already exists as special, if that department has received consent, that it should indeed be valid until these children have passed to the fifth grade, or to the class in question. What else is significant, what has been debated a lot, and what clearly do we not have an understanding of the Ministry? That's the difference between college and election cases. Or, if members of national minorities, this applies more to secondary education, but still learn in Serbian, attend classes in Serbian, to have the right to learn the native language with elements of national culture as an electoral subject. Why the electoral object? You'll agree that a high school kid of 15 and over won't be motivated, he probably doesn't understand how much later in life this will be significant, to learn his native language with elements of national culture if it's an object that isn't rated, which doesn't affect his average. We even asked that members of national minorities, if they had the opportunity to learn their native language as an electoral object, still have the right to two electoral subjects. I see that the amendment has also been rejected, so I ask you to really think about it in the next few days, and most of all about bilingual education or not reducing already acquired rights, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise it so, but in a way that members of national minorities have the right to learn in their own language and letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18460	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18461	Thank you. Today on the board I told my esteemed colleague Kovac that we together with the Council of the Hungarian Minority Community, as well as with the regional secretaries, as before with Mr Jegis and now with Mr Derri, have resolved almost all the questions that the advice before us has raised regarding the education of members of the Hungarian minority community in its own language and that we have not had any problems, nor any kind of interpretation of the laws that would be to the detriment of members of the Hungarian minority community. On the contrary, I think that we have found solutions that gave every member of the Hungarian minority community the opportunity to learn in their native language and that we went out to meet also about the number of students, or approval of the number of students associated with departments with less than 15 students. You know that this issue regulates the Law on Fundamental Education and Education in the part in which minority members are said to exercise the right in the native language to educational educational work and can exceptionally be achieved bilingually or in Serbian in accordance with a special law. This law clearly states – for members of national minorities educational and probationary work is achieved in the language and letter of the national minority, i.e. bilingually if at least 15 students are defined for it when enroling. I think we're in the basic education and education system here we have eight minority languages, in the secondary education and education system we have five minority languages. In addition to this issue of language use, we have an open question, and now we have resolved the question of the right to set up education institutions and we will address the issue of covering costs for low-cost textbooks and then we will fully close that circle of our obligations. It seems to me that we will find ourselves together in the future to consider the question – what is the concept of founding rights and what it means. Whether it's just a right without obligation or a right with certain obligations, but I'll allow you to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18462	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18463	Thank you, Vice President. We have submitted this amendment because we think there is a misunderstanding in it that can open or lead to a double interpretation and to the harm of those who want to open a class with less than 15 students in minority language. In fact, the bill states that if the National Council of National Minorities does not respond to the request within 15 days, the opinion shall be deemed to have been given. In your explanation, you're calling for roof law and you're saying that this refusal is in line with the roof law, and I think that's the key problem. In fact, there are certain annexes in the roof law that explain the matter. The roof law says - with previous consent. The opinion is one thing, it can be one way or another and it's undefined and consent is positive regardless of how the word "positive" is not used in the law as you keep teaching me. It is a very clear view, therefore, without the prior consent of the National Council of National Minorities. So, approval of a national council to open this department, not based on an opinion. An opinion that is not defined can be interpreted on an arbitrary basis and can, given the incorrectly arbitrary interpretation, cause unnecessary tensions in a very delicate thing such as minority education. Education in minority language is a test of one society and its willingness to understand diversity and to accept it and to make all students equal by the rights they have, which is to study in the native language. So, in the hope that something that helps to avoid possible misunderstandings will be accepted by this amendment, and you can adapt it by making sure that the one who copied the entire text from the roof law, not just those parts where the issue of consent skips, will adapt this amendment and bring it into line with the roof law to a full extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-18-0.u18464	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) If no one wants a word of this amendment, for today we'll be done with the work and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Konstantin Arsenovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the motions, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, has also called for the meetings to be attended by: Muhedin Fijuljanin and Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr. Zoran Kostic, Ljubisa Antonijević, Vesna Fila, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Stupar and Prof. Dr. Ivica Radović, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Nevenka Novaković, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We continue the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on basic education and education. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
