ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27874	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Cedomir Protic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Stefana Miladanovic, Vuk Jeremic, Mladen Grujic, Gordana Comic. We move to a decision on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that -126, v - 37, abstentions - did not, six of the 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, and before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to Articles 3, 4, 13, 14 and 19. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did 167 of the 171 MPs present vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -18, against - none of the abstentions - did 155 of the 173 MPs present vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 2, the same text was submitted by MP Mujo Mukovic, joint MPs Bajro Gegic and Enis Imamovic and MP Srdjan Dragojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3rd of the amendment, MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3rd of the amendment, MP Miodrag Djidic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -34, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment with the correction, MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Nevena Stojanovic, Vojislav Vujic, Zoran Vasic and Mr Djordje Kosanic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic and Mladen Grujic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 154 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Please colleagues who are not in the room to get their cards out of the electronic system. We're going back to work. The electronic system shows that 128 MPs are present in the hall right now. People's MPs are getting out of place. Where do you see the card without the MP being here? We can determine the quorum to avoid. I ask the MPs to once again insert the cards into the electronic system to determine the quorum. At this point, I can determine that there is a quorum of 127 MPs. We're going ahead with the decision-making. The People's MP, Arpad Fremond, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 163 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Antic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 158 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 164 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic and together by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Zvonimir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -59, against – no one, with abstention – voted 119 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić and together the MPs of the people Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Živojin Stankovic and Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -75, against – no one, with abstention – voted 104 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -40, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Krekic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 174 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Vesna Jovicki, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -42, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 137 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -27, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 165 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov and Rajko Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 171 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov and MPs Slavoljub Vlajkovic, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 126 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cikiriz and Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against – no one, with abstention – voted 163 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Cedomir Protic, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -48, no one, with abstentions, voted 131 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic submitted the 3rd amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Milica Dronjak, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Zoltan Peck, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Karolj Chizik. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Elvira Kovac submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenovic and together the MPs of the doc. Dr Zoran Radovanovic and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Slavica Saveljic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Radoslav Komlenović, Vesna Kovac and Milos Aligrudic. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 49 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Bojana Djordjevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Mirjana Dragas and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, no one, with abstentions, voted 147 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 164 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 148 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Dujovic and Ivana Dinic and MP Nenad Kitanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Mujo Mukovic, joint MPs Bajro Gegic and Enis Imamovic and MP Srdjan Dragojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 178 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Balint Pastor, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Judita Popovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -33, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Prof. Dr. Petar Škundric, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić and Branislav Mitrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 51 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -29, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 149 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Lasslo Varg, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Mirna Kosanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -28, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Siniša Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -35, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir J. Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 60 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Stepic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tanja Radovanovic and Milan Kovacevic. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 52 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 171 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Petar Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did 173 vote out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -29, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic and Mladen Grujic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -21, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 179 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Prim. Dr Nikola Girić and together the MPs of the people Snezana Stojanović Plassic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Zivojin Stankovic and Prof. Miodrag Stojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 70, no one, with abstentions, voted 110 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the doc submitted. Dr Zoran Radovanovic and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, with abstention – voted 145 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bajro Gegic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – did vote 177 of the 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 168 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Zvonimir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 152 of the 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 170 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Mirna Kosanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Milica Dronjak, submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, no one, with abstentions, voted 155 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 179 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 173 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 167 out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 175 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic, joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Teodora Vlahovic and joint MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted the 8th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 172 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic, joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Teodora Vlahovic and joint MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, no one, with abstentions, voted 140 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 174 out of the 178 MPs for - four against - none of the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 out of the 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 174 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 out of the 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 174 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Nevena Stojanovic, Vojislav Vujic, Zoran Vasic and Mr Djordje Kosanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Stojcic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 152 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić and together the MPs of the people Snezana Stojanović Plavsic, Zivojin Stankovic and Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 126 out of the 173 MPs, for – 47 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 168 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -24, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 149 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Dusica Morcheva, submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Milica Dronjak, submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenovic and together the MPs doc. Dr. Zoran Radovnaović and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -18, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 163 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bajro Gegic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total attendance of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Vladimir Ilic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 163 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic and together by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Zvonimir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that for -47, against -no one, with abstentions, voted 126 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dejan Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -29, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -30, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Mirna Kosanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -31, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic and Mladen Grujic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 of the total attendance of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Dragojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, with abstentions, voted 107, out of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir J. Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153, out of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by MP Riza Halimi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Milutinović, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 136, out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140, out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move on to a decision by the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, v – 38, the abstentions, did not vote nine, of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, v – 44, the abstentions were not voted by six, of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – 39, the abstentions, did not vote five, of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Judite Popović, Radmile Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Đurić and Kenan Hajdarevic to Article 1, Zlata Đerić and Dubravka Filipovski to Article 2, Srdjan Miković to Article 7, Nenad Konstantinović and Slobodan Homen to Article 7 and to Article 9 and Jovan Palalić to Article 21, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 21. 2, 8, 22, 31 and 33. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned, voted 164, out of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 163 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -22, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 167 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none of the abstentions - has voted 161 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one with abstentions - voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 25th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the international MPs Olgica Batic and Ana Novkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 33 has become an integral part of the bill, which provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, v – 36, abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided, in particular, that there are particularly reasonable reasons for this law to take effect earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of courts, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 35, abstentions – there is no vote, six of the total of 168 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judges Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 35 abstentions – there are no votes, six of the 169 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments which, under Article 157(6) of the Treaty, have become amendments. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Members 6,19 and 36. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 166 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Nenad Konstantinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Nenad Konstantinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs in the same text: Olgica Batic, with correction, and together Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micicic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Nenad Konstantinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to Article 36. The bill, which provides for this law to enter into force the next day since its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, v - 29, with abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that - 127, v - 30, abstentions - did not, nine of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular in the fourth part of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, v – 33, abstentions – there is no vote, eight of the total of 167 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the draft law has become an amendment submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 6 and the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Articles 13 and 20. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Boyan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Olgica Batic and MP Mr Vladimir Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Boyan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - one, abstention - no, 162 of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 160 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the MP, Mr Vladimir Ilic, to article 18. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 19th amendment with the correction, MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -21, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become an amendment to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on Article 20, which provides for this law to enter into force the next day since its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: -122, v - 30, abstention - one, was not voted by nine of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, v - 29, the abstentions - no, nine of the 162 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and CRIMINAL LAW You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Ljuban Panić, Teodora Vlahović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Srdjan Miković, Srdjan Milivojevic, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Nenad Konstanović and Ranka Savivić. You have received the Report (with correction) of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Report of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Ljuban Panic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27875	I suggest that until the crowd is cleared you take a break, then we continue in some decent atmosphere to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27876	I ask all MPs to ensure that we can continue our work under normal conditions. Please continue to work on the amendments to this point of the bill. Does anyone respond to the amendment to article 3 submitted by MP Ljuban Panic? (No) The People's MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27877	This amendment shall apply to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, we have put an amendment on the grounds that we consider it...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27878	Of course we won't be counting on you this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27879	Thank you, Mr. President. The President-in-Office, the Commissioner-in-Office, shall be the President-in-Office of Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, co-worker Biljana Hasanovic and I have made an amendment since we believe that an unwarranted act has been taken out of effect from this part. We can understand and respect all the reasons, the need for that part of supplementing the Criminal Code relating to a qualified act when it comes to damage, to stealing, to destroy the essential devices of a public or traffic part of our lives, but we simply cannot accept that such acts cannot happen out of absence. It just happens every day. Life is much more complex always, than the law is and practically not only in this part, but also in the whole of the law and in this part of the law, all kinds of criminal acts have a work of inadequacy. It can't happen that someone falls down and breaks something or gets over a shaft and breaks down, and that's the only reason someone has to go to jail. It's just not right and it's not adequately measured responsibility for all kinds of work. Otherwise, I'm very sorry that this law was passed in a reduced procedure and by emergency procedure because there was more proposal for a supplement in this section. One of these additions was a request for protection against the city for the simple reason that from many local self - administrations, it was damage with great amounts and the same consequences. However, the chairman of the Justice Committee had no understanding of our proposal to supplement this part on the committee itself. If the law had gone to regular procedures, there would have been more time for including MPs to consider this law, but also for the public with certain interests. Apparently, in this part, soon the same member of the law will have to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27880	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27881	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that the ruling majority, especially the party that proposed this amendment, has no desire to hear the reasons and criticisms of the opposition on its own draft law. This speaks of their surface in work, pride and passion, the way they bring amendments, and on the other hand, the reasons why some amendments are accepted are really valid. There's so much I know about SNS and some lawyers. Lawyers understand best what life imposes as a theme on these amendments. It's unacceptable to make a lack of clarity about these amendments, especially knowing the state of our municipal infrastructure, and I simply cannot understand that the ruling majority of such a well-founded fact, the arguments, the reasons why we propose this amendment does not want to accept it but does not want to hear it. Everyone has the right to their own dose of haughtiness and passion and incomprehension requires the opposition, but also Serbian citizens have the legitimate right to punish it in the next election, because it is unacceptable for me to cross a car over a shaft that was placed in that place 25 years ago, a sluice that co-ordinated and that sink, shaht or any other similar object to crack due to it, or parks a vehicle in such a place, to be a responsible person, a citizen who ran over a shaht and a slubnik and is not responsible to be held, so I think there should be absolutely strong reasons to accept negligentness in this situation because there are people who will not deliberately damage the communal infrastructure, but can be damaged when crossing the car, and then it is appropriate to stop adopting the reasons in this legislative proposal that you do not quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27882	The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27883	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens and citizens, I was a little late when my amendment was. I would like to thank my colleagues Theodore and Biljani for having submitted almost identical with small differences, and I would like to support their amendment to keep the work done out of neglect in these amendments to the Criminal Code and to bare the language of the citizens. Between Banatski Karlovac and Vladimirovac - a spring crossing, installation, crossing with a trailer and transporting wood, and it happens to you that due to mechanical failure, that trailer is off and that wood is falling apart and damages certain installation. Is that intention or is that stop? That's all it's about. What message we as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as a legislative body, send to the citizens of Serbia if anyone has not done it on purpose. Certainly, this work that I have cited as an example now, or a colleague of Milivojevic, or before that, Col. Vlahovic, is certainly a stop. If the neighbor decides to return the shaht or repair the door from the electrical installation and happens to damage that installation, he must in court have the right to prove that he has done so out of trouble. It's a bad message to remove the malpractice, when it comes to these crimes, from the Criminal Code. It is bad that for obvious and possible situations, where there is no premeditation, something happens, citizens are meant to be judged as if premeditation exists. It is particularly bad for us to send such a message today, when there are days of speculation about who and how it talks to certain people convicted of the most terrible crimes of pardon, and it is in the cabinet of the President of the Republic. Our job today is the Criminal Code. Please accept one of these DS amendments. It's really stupid that we, as MPs, don't make a solution that tomorrow someone who carries wood across a spring crossing and thus accidentally damages the installation, is meant to have done so with premeditation. That's all it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27884	Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The representatives of the promoters and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27885	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. When I tell two minutes, I'll continue to use the time of my authorised representative. I must point out, first of all, that this law proposes a parliamentary group, proposed by the MPs, that is good, extremely good in terms of the parliamentary initiative. But that's bad, because it shows that the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, like those who have to propose law first of all, and especially laws concerning the establishment of criminal acts, criminal responsibility, that either has no resources for such a thing, or does not do their job. When we look at the government's legislative plan, we saw that there were certain obligations of the ministry, or government, to propose amendments to the Criminal Code. It was in that fat book, I brought it here last time and explained, by the end of March to do it. It wasn't done until the end of March. Here, we arrived in the second half of November, over half a year ago, 7.5 months, if I'm not mistaken, the ministry hasn't done its part of the job. Then what will the MPs do, let's do that job that the Ministry of Justice has not done and what the Government, the executive power in the Republic of Serbia has not done, although they have shown us here, brought the book to us, on the four and on some side it says that the Ministry of Justice will propose an act that will bring the National Assembly, and these are amendments to the Criminal Code. It's April 1st. I saw it as a first-prime joke. What the Prime Minister signed, in terms of the legislative plan, but no one slipped what the fat book they gave us and didn't do. True, they later sought some justifications, a few months after the deadline – here is a strategy that has not yet been adopted, will be done. When will it be? The deadline's over. The first three months expire on March 31st. The ministry has nothing to do with it, the government has nothing to do with it, and then the martyrs of the MPs are trying to propose what I think we should do in a normal country, that the government has more resources, that we understand more. We have only just now, we have been informed on the Justice Committee today, only now the government has declared itself on the issue of the bill itself. It's not the moment that we arrived in the procedure, it's not the moment when the debate was in principle. And then the government kept quiet, and the ministry kept quiet, and they didn't say anything. They said for today, come on, that's good. They said what? That it works in principle and that it works in general. How in general, when we still don't know what will be adopted from the amendment? And that's what the government said. Apparently, they either don't know their job or they're doing it all dirty. They can't do that. I think it's an insult to both the National Assembly and the People's MPs. We tried in a certain way to fix this situation. Today, on the Committee on Justice, I tried to shape Mr Milivojevic's good initiative in some way, and to propose as a Committee an amendment to Article 1, that the punishment of Article 1 of this article be punished by the perpetrator of a part of the theft, regardless of the value of the stolen property, if the stolen thing is culturally good, or good that enjoys previous protection or natural well-being, or if the theft is done in the cemetery. We have a grave deforestation situation, a small material value of stealing, when stealing parts of a monument or something. Since these are places of special pitet, why not protect it in a way that is suggested to protect and cultural goods? I think any citizen of Serbia would support that punishment be allowed for such acts, since these are places of special pitet, that regardless of the value, we do not allow there to be theft. It's not old material value, but it's an injury. Names are being removed from the tombstones because of that little metal, and for the family who suffered the accident it's a huge injury. It was silenced, and if we had more time, if this law hadn't been a stop-pani, since it had been seen that the government hadn't done its part of the job as long as seven months after the deadline, if it hadn't been for – let's go right now, all MPs would have been able to present their proposals and fix this law. Secondly, it is very bad that this bill, as regards intervention to Article 279, is treated by Article 3. The bill, something that existed now, does not exist and is not defined, although it could now be defined, which means a disturbance in the lives of citizens and the functioning of the economy. I, in my amendment, no matter what my amendment has been interpreted as two amendments, it is one amendment that I have proposed to amend in paragraph 2 and to add item 3, and I have suggested that in Article 2, which is defined that anyone who destroys, damages, alterations, renders unusable or removes a public water, sewerage, heat, gas, electrical or other energy or public transport systems and connections, or parts of those devices, and thereby causes a disturbance in the lives of citizens or the functioning of the economy, i.e. public traffic, that this disorder be defined as a significant disorder. If we don't define it, there is a possibility of volunteerism in interpreting disorders. Is it really a significant disorder or any kind of disorder if I had to go around the shaft or go around anything, something that was damaged, so it fell, so I had to go three feet away? And it's a movement disorder or anything. There's no definition of the significance of that disorder. Does any damage to these large systems, water, gas, sewers cause any kind of disturbance? We can interpret, but it depends on who decides how this rubber standard, harmonica norm, will interpret - is it or is it not? Today, on the Justice Committee, I asked, is he responsible for the suspension or is he not responsible for the suspension? That's how we get out of a system that exists in a group of crimes against the general security of people and property. In the event of a crime of general danger, it is particularly isolated if the act is committed out of default and a certain punishment is envisaged. The destruction and destruction of public devices will be scheduled by today, or tomorrow, so it is now deleted. In the event of a threat to the security of work protection measures, there is also a shortage and it is not touched. In improper and incorrect construction work, even if something was done out of trouble. With dam damage, embezzlement and water facilities, too. Also in the second group of crimes against public traffic security, because this is also about public traffic systems. When public traffic is threatened, the same treatment is immediately different. In endangering traffic by a dangerous action or a dangerous means, too. In endangering the safety of air traffic, the same thing. We are now removing what was in KZ, without serious analysis. We will come to the situation that those who judge are absolutely volunteering, because everything that happens can be interpreted with attitude 1 and attitude 2, and it is not particularly defined on point 3. I think this shows enough that this is not how laws should be proposed, especially as regards the Criminal Code. These are the things that require special analysis. The result of inadequate application can be inadequate protection of protected objects, and especially if this is not clear enough, every able lawyer will try to interpret all those inconsistencies, because all that is unclear is a regulation to interpret for the benefit of the accused. Our proposal is to define it in a way that makes it clear to everyone and that there is no volunteering in one direction or another. I repeat once again, that the government has done its job right, that the government has done it in the time itself, the government has said -- we will do it by March 31st, but it hasn't done it, and now we have a situation where we have these laws, which I don't think are done enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27886	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27887	The amendment that my colleague Biljana Hasanovic Korać and I submitted to Article 4. The bill refers to Article 288 of the Basic Code and is at the same time directly related to our amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law, but relating to Article 279. Criminal code. Article 3 of the proposal is proposed to be suspended from the basic Code of Fundamental Crime. So whoever destroys, damages, alters or makes it unusable or removes a public device for water, sewerage, heat, gas, electrical or other energy or public transport and communications systems, or parts of those devices, will be punished by a prison of three months to five years. Then, the bill added Article 2 to the same article, which added the qualified criminal offence, which will be punished by prison from one to eight years. At the same time, this article was left out of neglect, which I spoke about in the interpretation of the amendments to Article 3. Since I also think once again I would like to think about exactly the situations in which citizens come every day, in which this work may happen out of trouble, we have suggested that this work remain. For that, normally, a milder penalty is proposed, which can be cashed. It was usually more difficult here than in other cases, because it's either cash or a prison sentence for up to one year. As we tried to propose to return the act of indemnity, then, in Article 4 of the amendment, we tried to return the part that was deleted from Article 288, which is – if more severe consequences happen, that, in proportion to the corresponding consequences, it might increase the penalty. In the end, I would ask the promoter once again, these are not the concessions that appear to be the proposings of this amendment, this would be very good if we thought about it one more time and did something very important to our citizens, that we understood that life is much more complex than the law, and that the acts of negligentness are unfortunately very common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27888	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27889	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I really don't understand the torment and silence of the bill's promoter. You can at least say -- wait, we won't accept what the opposition proposes, that evil opposition that hates us, that doesn't love us, that's jealous of our successes. You can say, "We will," and if you don't, you can say, "I'm sorry, we have a reason not to do something." You're acting here like someone who came into this hall with a prewritten law somewhere else, someone planted it on you, and now you have no idea what we're talking about, and you're not going to say a single reason why you don't accept malpractice in these criminal laws. I must tell you that your laws become mass graves of dead letters on paper. This is going to be a dead letter on paper, and this law will be his mass grave if you don't take no for an answer. In fact, you don't care that you enlarge this law, that you improve it, that you arrange it in some other way, that you accept not what the DS tells you, that you accept what life tells you, as the citizens of this country tell you, because you must be bringing this law because of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to improve the quality of life. If you do so for these reasons, for these moral initiatives, for these extremely well - meaning reasons, accept the existence of suspension. But no. You're just making this law for this Article 290, and this is just a mask, a facade, and an oblanda in which you're going to pack these provisions of the law. Because it would be a little inappropriate to say that you're making this whole law because you want to make it impossible for citizens to block the roads and the lines when we have scandals in Tristenik where a nickel is being investigated, when we have protests of FAP workers in Priboj, and then you say, "No, no, first they protested, so we handed this law to the office." It's a farce. You came up with this as a farce on party organs. As soon as you saw the FAP protest, you wrote this bill, waited for the strike to pass, and then you handed it over to the office, so since it can't just go through, let's pack it up a little bit, let's fill it up, add some provisions, we're, like, taking care of the state. Please don't worry about the state like this. If you really care about the citizens of this country, accept the DS amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27890	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have listened carefully and carefully to the debate in principle and debate in particular and to all the amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm grateful for the amendments, because I think it's democratic fluid. But I reserve the right to my opinion and to defend my opinion. I heard three kinds of grudges today. Formal objections are – why emergency procedure? Until this call to the National Assembly, 89% of all legal proposals were under emergency procedure. Rapidly increased since 2001 when there were about 17, 18% of the emergency procedure, up to 89% of all the laws that entered the assembly procedure by emergency procedure, in conclusion with the previous assembly. I'm not saying that's good. Chuck, I think that's really bad. We try to pass all the system laws in a regular procedure, and so it was with the Public Procurement Act, and so it was with the Law on Measures to Encourage Agriculture and Rural Development, and so it was with the two most important laws, that is, the most important law that comes into the assembly procedure of one year, which is the Budget Act. I find it a little strange when the objections – which is why the urgent procedure – come from a parliamentary group that has not respected the budget calendar for years, but the Budget Law has come to us in time, to say the storm, and adopted in minutes to 12 and seconds before some extraordinary financing, and now you see hair in the egg. I would like to have a National Assembly in the future that will bring all the laws into regular procedure. I think this conference is going towards it, because we've passed all the system laws in the regular procedure, because the budget as the most important law of one year came in time, respecting the budget calendar, because it will also be adopted, I'm sure, as before, by December 15th, as the law requires. Because of this, I find it strange to think that these concerns are of a technical nature – why the urgent procedure? What is this concern about an emergency procedure? You've had a chance, gentlemen, in the past to target this problem, that all these damages that have occurred on the facilities to reduce as much as possible. If this law were to be passed by regular procedure, to look for a public debate, would we give an opportunity to some new people who may even be measuring a rail at this point, some copper cable, which may even be coming off at this point, and we're wasting our time this way, thinking that we're shooting and making some small points. This law will fully enliven at the moment when we all gather around it and say – we will prevent theft on infrastructure facilities. We will prevent damage both material and immaterial. In this way we send a message to those who are now doing it or thinking about doing it in the future, they will think – yes, there is someone in this country who will protect us. We don't need voices like that, not to you, not to us, not to anyone, to trade like that. That's bad. The wish of the promoter, the wish of the SNS, I am the first among the equals currently in this parliamentary group and I have no greater right than other fellow MPs from my parliamentary group, it is a desire to animate our society, because only in this way can this law fully revive and preserve our infrastructure facilities and from these thefts, but also from the future, and I agree with a colleague who used the term "white collars" where the damages are less visible but much greater. A formal group of objections – why the promoter is a National MP. You know, I think we should all wonder why the role of the National Assembly in our society is so minor. We don't need to look at it through the personal name and last name of any of us 250. I think we should think about the National Assembly that we're going to leave to some future generations tomorrow, some better people who are going to sit in these benches. In what way? I'm sure you also feel that the public, unfortunately, looks at the National Assembly and all of us, regardless of whether we're from power or opposition and when we cross that line, looks at it as 250, don't blame me because I'm picking myself up on all of this, "lezilebovica" who eat free food in a congregation restaurant, who don't do anything, who receive fat wages and who can only tell the difference between red and green buttons, just "for" or "agains". Is it a sin to take a legislative and control role into your hands in full capacity? Is that a sin? Don't we have to do that? Should we just be robots who vote yes and against, by order? I don't think so. I think we should show creativity. Only through such creativity, through the writing of the law will we be able to show that we are better quality. We can leave this House of the National Assembly and the National Assembly to future generations much better. It's frustrating, gentlemen, if all you want to do is look at it the right way. In 2009 and 2010, I do not believe that a more significant step is now, only 3% of people in Serbia believed that the National Assembly was not corrupt, 33% believed that it was extremely corrupt. It's a frustrating fact when you go to work in the morning and you meet and you see that every third neighbor thinks you're corrupt or thinks I'm corrupt. How can we do that? By writing the law, Mr. Srdjan. By writing the law as you have written, and I am very grateful to you for it and write it still and it should be, and not that it should be, which is why the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Code is an initiative within, an initiative of the Assembly, an initiative of MPs. I don't understand. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned. I think that in the past year and a few days, the Ministry of Justice has shown great engagement, the presence here, the essential laws that we have passed or which in the future, I believe, we will bring, and that we will propose to be the Ministry of Justice. It's a little strange when these objections go to the Ministry of Justice, the previous government didn't remember, it wasn't even important to adopt the Anti-Corruption Strategy, so between 2010 and 2013, we didn't have that document. For what? They didn't have time. A time when you ask a question, when you say someone is uninterested to answer, then your answers don't respond, you don't like to hear it, when that time machine turns around and often goes beyond 2000, so we can turn it over in the last three, four years. I think these questions of formal character are really minor to what we wanted to achieve by this law. Practical group of questions, disturbances, or significant disturbances, what's the limit? How to define what is significant and what is only a disorder, and what is a significant disorder, what is a disorder? What's the limit? What's the limit? Is it a disorder to take a fiber, and to cut the entire pillar of the power line, so then he makes an ecological disaster or someone gets hurt, then it's a significant disorder, and it's not a significant disorder if one, two or three, or five of those diagonals, and the damage from stealing steel L profiles, the diagonals in M are 90 million for the last four years. So today you steal one, so it's a disorder, so tomorrow you steal another and it's a disorder. So 10 days after a slight disorder, then 11 days a pillar falls. Is that a significant disorder or a disorder? It's not defined. It has not been defined, therefore it did not correspond to this change in a significant disorder. Stop. The interpretations are different at first sight, yes. But we're all drivers, we're all involved in traffic. How many times have we happened to get in the car and go somewhere, thinking about other things and not fastening our seat belts? Stop us cop we say – you know, I didn't intentionally tie my seat belt, I was thinking about other things out of trouble I didn't tie my seat belt. You'll pay the fine. They'll write you a report, no matter what. I think the things that are happening, or potentially they can happen that someone like that, who was cooking wood, came down at the track crossing, got a flat tire, wood fell on the track, were in doubt over what might happen, and what someone could hide in the future tomorrow and avoid punishment and come back to do that sort of thing again. I agree with Mr Milivojevic's initiative, as far as the sanctity of every country is concerned, and these are the places where our dead are. I'm willing to work together on such a legal proposal. I'm willing to be more than just a matter of amendments, but maybe it's a matter of some new amendment and an addition to the law. I think we should protect everyone and for that reason, I'm really publicly saying that I'm ready to work on it and not just be the subject of an amendment. The political group of questions, which is one question, I think it's been proven since we talked about this law in principle, which is that this law was made to prevent strikes. I don't think that this math that's proven to be adequate to the truth, unless you claim that the bill promoter is psychic. That, say, October 20, 21st, when we passed this law in the procedure, we knew what would happen in Priboj 25, 26, 28. It's like we knew this was gonna happen in advance. I guess when there's such a bad intention, it's done to prevent some of the things that have already happened. So that, math and those petty political points to do all this to get over the workers you left unfortunately in the unfortunate privatisations of the previous government without a job and without a future, really seem malicious. The purpose of this law proposed by the SNS is to preserve what is the property of all of us. To preserve infrastructure facilities, to try to minimize the damage caused by the theft of cables, diagonals, rails and everything that I have shown you in the financial sense in principle, I am willing to show you, to print out that every MP, before the vote itself, is what it is and in the practical sense of what is happening. Are you ready to do what you're going to do a political story and say -- no, it's directed against some workers, you might want to withdraw this law. Maybe you want another train to jump off the rails. Maybe you want someone else to get hurt over a two-foot piece of copper cable. When you look at these photos, you might still want someone to hide in their form tomorrow, peopleally get away with it, and keep doing all this stuff. Our proposal is a life proposal. I am now asking you to receive a full support proposal because only with the full support and conviction of our society for such anomalies can we only minimise them and preserve both human lives and the environment and material goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27892	According to Businessman Bojan Đuric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27893	Vice President, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm not going to go into it now whether it was premeditated or not, we'll discuss it later. I've also called for an amendment debate, so I'm asking you to record it, because this is an emergency intervention. Mr Babic said that citizens, MPs of the National Assembly, all of us 250 view us as "lezilebovićs", who only know how to distinguish red from green taster and I think it was your obligation to interrupt it at that time, and to warn him that it was political intent, and I understand what the idea was and I can agree that there was one kind of negative belief in the citizens, but I don't think that we should contribute to it ourselves, and I think that's underestimating citizens. Citizens have such or such a relationship with the Assembly, but I am sure they can assess who is who in this Parliament and know how to distinguish between the political differences between the representatives of citizens, political parties, effusion and the behaviour of the "legilebovic" and the distinctions only red from the green taster. I don't think it's right that you've allowed Mr. Babic's basic idea to continue to consider, to move on, so that the question of whether or not someone is "lezilebovic" relates to what kind of relationship he has to the concrete law. I think the laws can and must be discussed, that the debate on whether it should be, a punishable suspension is a legitimate political and professional debate and that because of the plot of one or another solution, no one can be called a "lezilebovic" or a person who wishes someone to suffer from the theft of two metres of cable. If we argue like that, we won't get anywhere, and that's my intervention with respect to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for the debate on the amendment on what is negligent and what is not, I will talk about it later, but once again I warn you that I think you have violated the Rules of Procedure, by not intervened, when such a construction by Mr Babic was used.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27894	I have to admit you're right, in that sense. I support everything you've said. We shouldn't use such epithets against the MPs. I did notice, and I thought I'd intervene, but that's over, but I accept your objection in that sense, and I'm asking all the MPs, it's really not nice to say that they're MPs, although at one point I thought they were in a portable sense, but no matter what, we deserve a certain level of dignity and respect. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, he has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27895	Article 104, 106, 107, whatever, and as a proposing, I have the right to report to you, Mr. Chairman, see Rules of Procedure. I put myself in that formulation first, but if that was too strong, I apologize to the MPs and to the Serbian public, but I know as well as you know that the role of the National Assembly in our society is not satisfactory and that it is not at the level at which we would all want it to be. I apologize once again for the stronger formulation, but I don't think my wish was to offend anyone, because first I came from myself, but it's simply what and how citizens look at us unfortunately isn't what this home deserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27896	I can only accept the part where you listed as an apology. You have the right to say whatever you want in that sense. I have to admit that I felt that way, too, so I'm begging you, I really don't need applause, right now I want to be really serious. I don't even think Babic was so mean, but I just want to try to introduce a dialogue that's at the very level of our role. Please, there's no need to applaud me, and you can criticize me well. We're moving on. The replica has Srdjan Milivojevic. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: Talk to me directly. ) You can by amendment, he did not mention you, said – Srdjan. Now that you have the same name, I apologize, but he didn't say, I realized that Srdjan Milivojevic had spoken, he was discussing. You have time to report by amendment. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27897	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really like your optimism that you will do something good and useful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for your term of office. That really reminds me of the optimism of a failed businessman who fell completely into business and then for the last money he's got goes and buys a wallet, and then borrows money to put a rabbit's paw and a four-listed deteline in his wallet, and then he'll go for it. So, I understand your anxiety, today is a special day, you're no longer president of the Water polo Union, you have some extenuating circumstances when it comes to discussion, and yet I can't understand certain words when it comes to qualifications stop. Nehat is one of the most important criminal and legal institutes in every law, in every country. There you must know, there is a conscious indiscretion and unconsciousness. This conscious inadequacy has some extenuating and difficult circumstances when a man trusts in self-esteem and says, "I am a good driver and I can drive 120," or he says, "No one will come to the crossroads when I pass and do not respect the "stop" sign." You know, there's something called unconscious neglect. It's like when a woman keeps acid in a bottle and someone walks into the house, sees a bottle, thinks there's water, drinks, it's not a woman's fault she drank acid. That defines our criminal-legislative legislation as unconscious inadequacy. You have to, when you're proposing amendments to the criminal code to consult a little with the people of the profession. I remember the words of Alexander Vukic that you have no experts for Belgrade or many other things. Ask us, we have experts on many things and on Belgrade, on criminal legislation and on other areas. In the end, when you honor us that we've passed the laws by emergency procedure, don't ever look back again, because you said you were better, more advanced, smarter, more intelligent... (Chairman, from place: time.) I'm done. Do not compare yourself to us because you said in the election campaign that you were 100 times better than us and that you would never do what we did and that you learned from our mistakes, and I am telling you – learn from colleges and do not buy diplomas when you are studying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27898	The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27899	I graduated from my university, Mr. Milivojevic, in 1995. There's a lead at Engineering College. You can do very nicely whenever you check out the University of Belgrade, and that's what I really admire. As far as experts are concerned, you have them, I admit, but you have experts who have in charge of the City of Belgrade, poored, and, on the other hand, from the moment they became ministers in the government and mayors, anonymous firms, and according to the Agency for Business Registers, as one of the ten companies of your president and former mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas has received 38 billion 938 million dinars, so how is it not that he applied to his company he did not apply to both public service and public enterprises and to the City of Belgrade, but only to his company and to his own interests and his own pocket? As far as I'm concerned, you're an expert. An expert, you get into power, you form a company, that firm gets 38, almost 39 billion dinars in six years, that's expertise. It must be, from anonymous to tycoon in six years and only on state resources, it needs expertise, it really needs sorcery, and I admit that you have that kind of expertise. As for what I just said, let's look at things straight. At this point, according to research, the Assembly has 53 negative and 13 positive points. Unlike a year and a half ago, two days ago, these positive ones were below 10. There are shifts, but these shifts require an entire assembly. To restore the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly, you cannot answer the facts with insults. Am I nervous that I resigned as president of the Water polo Union, where I am fortunate that today Dragan Gilas is nervous because he resigned as president of the basketball union. It's not and it won't do it, it's the difference between you and us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27900	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27901	Mr. Chairman, we have now heard from Mr. Zoran, the previous period, Babic, apart from the proverbial ignorance of grammar, and a violation of procedures, discipline, civilization and fine conduct in the Assembly. I know that his brown color is his favorite and green color, which he knows in Vranjska Banja, but he should also know when he talks about companies, so I asked you last time so you didn't answer me, the company "Profijler" where Mr. Vukic worked until the election had a 45.3-fold jump after the election. She's been doing all your campaigns with a certain Mr. Veselinović, whom every firm and every media in Serbia know today. Not Zvonko Vesenović, but one another. He's a man's name, I think his name is Goran Veselinovic. The company called “Profijler”, so it changed its name to “block and connect” d.o.o., and now it changed its name to “Reit” d.o.o., thinking it was misleading the trail. Forty-five points have increased revenue three times. Mr. Sinisa Mali received the fourth chair yesterday, respected citizens, adviser to Mr. Vukic, chairman of the Management Board of the Commercial Bank, a member of the Management Board of KCS for the purchase of medicines and now the manager of the emergency administration of the City of Belgrade. That's not the problem. He's a great Sinisha, in terms of the number of functions. He didn't report to the Anti-Corruption Agency, nor did he get his approval. He didn't publish the property card, Mr. Granny. Mr. Zoran, the previous period of Babic, is a man who in this Assembly personifies a party that destroys the economy and Serbia as a society and deals absolutely with all structures, where you are in power, illicit actions, and one day someone will investigate. Make sure no one gets scared of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27902	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you continue to discuss this beyond the agenda, I really must take action. I understand your need, but to go from the Water polo Alliance of Serbia to the firm, and we are discussing amendments to the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedures. I'm sorry, please, as much as I want to be tolerated, I can't stand it. You have to understand me. Please, if you want to work in tolerance, don't get angry afterwards. I don't mind, I just, as a man, can't do it. You have to understand me. I can't tolerate you going so far away from the agenda, in fact you're discussing in principle, the amendment isn't said anything. Where are we here? The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27903	Old and tried recipe - lack of arguments, excess insult. I don't know what law, Mr. Chairman, and if you hadn't warned someone, I lost my last name yesterday? By what law? By what rule? Are those nice, smooth, good Democrats, culture? Serbia is Leskovac with less declines, Serbia is and Vranje, Serbia are also parts where words are spoken differently, but it is good to understand each other. If it's a lack of culture, and if you leave someone without a last name, which is said by an esteemed colleague, I am grateful to him, come on without a last name, but leaving people without a job for the previous four or five years of government, that's another problem already. Somehow here you've been doing this, you've been criminalizing, you don't know what you've been doing since the '90s, as you've been doing now. I've said it many times and I'll repeat it again and now – for everything we've done you've had a period, you've had enough time, you've had all the power of this world and this country to prosecute, to accuse, to condemn. You didn't do it because it wasn't, and now with statements that something's been done against the law and that sometimes someone will investigate it, if you know it's against the law, and you're hiding it, you're committing a crime. If there's anything against the law, there's the prosecution, there's the court, there's the police, report it, file charges. No one's going to tell you anything, but you can't wave an empty gun and think you're a hunter all the time. Serbia should not be hunting, hunting, or hunting. About what our society is about, I think we should make communication, I think we should make a common language, and if every debate like this is going to get into a pool that plays any water polo selection or goes back to the order of personal insults, then I think we're going to need a lot more energy, at least to those who want and see Serbia, see a political scene that way, we're going to invest it. No problem, but when it comes to paying the Czech people, such irresponsible behavior comes at the turn of the elections, and you will see it in Vozdovac, Belgrade and all future elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27904	We're done with the replicas. We're going after the amendments. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27905	I'm really sorry, Mr. Chairman. Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. In this case, Mr Babic, who performed as an authorised representative, spoke for over three minutes which you violated the Rules of Procedure because you allowed him to have a replica in the work relating to the matter he proposed as a proposer. So you made a mistake, and I think you had to react for two minutes, if you've already given him a reply. If you let him as an authorised representative, then he must not speak out of the question. He was talking, I don't know what he was talking about. All I know is he wasn't talking about the subject. Do you understand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27906	I'm sorry I laughed. I didn't want to laugh, but you put me in a position not to know how to answer. Why? I know it's being broken here, but Mr. Babic is an authorised representative, and now I have a dilemma when I give him my word, because I always think of him as a promoter. So that's how you have to understand me. If it was a replica, then you're right, but as an authorised promoter, I'm not giving it right on the line, I'm giving it as a bill promoter. Would you like us to make a statement in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has a People's MP Bojan Djuric, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27907	I remember what the amendment is and what occasion I called in, but I just don't know if after the last 15 minutes it makes any sense to talk about it. I have come forward after some interventions by the motionor, or by an authorised representative, because I think, I repeat, it is not good that we are having this debate on such large issues, what are the changes to criminal legislation, and in particular to criminal and legal institutes that are older than us and from this country several dozen times. It's so easy to talk about what it is to imagine, what it is to stop, what it is to mean. It's not my intention to intervene as a lawyer. Maybe I'll do it out of trouble. I think it is a really wrong perception that after the citizens of Serbia, after seeing this expressed our common intention to severely punish certain crimes or crimes, they will really begin to respect the law more. I mean, Mr. Granny, you're wrong about one thing. Not entering now particularly into whether to punish or not to be punished for indemnity, assessment of indemnity or withdrawal of a line between one and another kind of inadequacy, between inadequacy on the one hand and imagination on the other, or possibly a line between two different types of imaginations, is not an unorthodox thing. In criminal law theory, in judicial practice there are very precisely built criteria how this is done. Therefore, the argument that something that is not clearly defined or because someone once did not tie the belt, it is not a stop, cannot be a convincing enough argument that anyone in this Assembly is accused of being held responsible for one or another form of responsibility or irresponsibility as someone who politically defends the theft of infrastructure facilities or parts of objects. That's what I'm talking about. I think you were thinking about me today when you interviewed last week's debate. You raised that question yourself, Mr. Granny. You know, the question of social danger is a very important question. It's especially important for what you're talking about. You're talking about public perception, you're talking about prevention and you're talking about supporting a stronger criminal policy. Criminal policy is a neutral term, so it's not negative. That's why it's dangerous to leave those other interventions, which we talked about, about much more dangerous forms of crime for a second chance. Why did I think it was better to regulate it now? I belong, too, to those who think that this law was better placed by the government. Because then you wouldn't get involved in these discussions that you've been having with each other for half an hour, because then these discussions would have gone stronger on the ground of criminal law, criminal proceedings, and perhaps once in this assembly, the new government wouldn't have accused the last one, and past the current one, whose hands are more in the jam, not to mention the jam. There's no end to that. And then, you saw, in five minutes, everyone gets into it -- and why didn't you chase when you were in power? I'm warning you again - he can't prosecute the government. That rule is older than all of us. If we don't establish that rule, then there's no point in changing the law like this. You're saying that better effects will be achieved by us all showing the will to vote together, I assume you mean it for a law like this, but the law in practice will not be implemented by us. If you make a vague law, those who enforce it will have a problem. When you say, "Who will judge whether it is greater or less significant?" These are built legal standards with all the faults and criticisms we can direct. Serbian prosecutors, Serbian judges, even in this state, with all the problems we've had, can handle these problems relatively successfully. What's the matter, Mr. Granny? When they feel that a political difference is being handled or supported or denied, let's say, some event that implies a public traffic blockade, depending on where it happens. Then it has nothing to do with indifference and imagination, nor will it help the political will of parliament to pass such a law. The judges and those who go into criminal proceedings before them, preparing the case that comes before the court, will not look into the law. They'll listen to what happens in public space, in the media, politicians' behavior, whether they're equal in any situation, whether it suits them or doesn't suit them. That's why I think this debate, which lasted half an hour here, has convinced everyone that political discourse hasn't changed much. Then there's no longer any matter of intent, no more imagination or imagination. I mean political intentions. The consequences that are produced are important. I also intervened this way because of my colleague Savic, who is very patiently waiting here to talk about something that was her attempt to intervene in the legislation. If we poison everything this much every day with this same debate, we won't get anywhere. The argument that it's not good to put up with something in an emergency procedure is an argument. It's not just formal. You're absolutely right when you say that past power has also passed an enormous number of laws by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27908	Mr. Djuric, please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27909	Mr. Chairman, I am responding to what the motionary's representative said about this amendment. I listened very carefully. From that began Mr. Babic when he spoke on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27910	Respect my request. Please, at least talk a little more after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27911	For me, it's the difference between the work of Parliament and what is not to be done. I don't think we should use those words that I just used, and I think political arguments should discuss whether it's right as a remark that after 2000, the number of laws that are passed by emergency procedure has increased drastically. Yes, Mr. Babice, but you know that half of the 90 congregations almost didn't work, and that's when it was first reduced to a red and green key. Then don't make that an argument, because I don't think it's good. It can't be an argument that it's always good if it's something of a regular procedure, and it's never good if it's urgent. Budget law is a good example. I'm deeply convinced it's not. We passed the Budget Law last year, neatly, within the legal deadline and the budget was not good. That's why we went into budget rebalance. That's the point. If you chose the way to say that the formal argument is something of an emergency procedure, then your argument about the budget is also formal, and it's not essential. I'm sorry, these last two minutes, you're right, Mr. Arsenovic, were not about the essence of the amendment. That's why I'm sorry, and at this point, I'm gonna hang up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27912	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27913	Replication and it'll take up to two minutes. Mr. Djuric, I think we agree with most of the things that you and I have said. I don't want anyone to get me wrong, but the period for which there is an analysis of the urgency and regularity of the procedure is from 2001 to 2012. So neither was it ideal before, so now it's all broken, but I wanted to say that in the years between 2001 and 2012, this imbalance of urgency and regular procedure has shifted to the side of urgency, which is basically not good, because it is a much better and better law that passes the regular procedure, public debate and all that this regular procedure and implies. I think we agree on that. I didn't mean to demean anyone, but just point to that imbalance that started in those 11 years. Of course I don't think this is a place and the Assembly isn't where anyone will be tried, nor will we be tried, because we are not judges, nor lawyers, nor participants in this procedure. But I think as people, and hopefully there are 250 very prominent people sitting here, we're going to show one strong support if we say together -- that's the problem, here's the solution proposal. We may not have seen him in the previous period, but let's now support him and thus send a message not to those who need that law to apply and judge, but to those who will do so in the future because of such a message not to execute and not to plan such an execution. On the other hand, what do you call the procedure when you give a hand, smile and say, "Let's work on this together, and on the other hand you get a slap?" (President: Time.) ) I think it shows a lot more about what's across the street than about the hand that, unfortunately, is important and important in our society on the other hand remains in the air.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27914	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27915	Just 30 seconds. I don't accept this final argument. We're talking about criminal law today. Civilization was created by abolishing the colony, so when someone cuts off someone's hand, then the government's reaction isn't to cut off his arm too. That's progress. I think that goes for politics. I don't want to judge who gave who his hand to, and who the other side backs his slap. I'm not getting into it at all. But for me, it's no argument to fight back with the same measure. That's the end of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27916	According to the amendment, MP Srdjan Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27917	In the light of the amendments, Article 4 is provided for in Article 279(2) of Regulation (EU) No 279/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards malignancies. I think the amendment to that article is absolutely justified. Besides, I have more to say, the amendment would have been better if the law hadn't arrived in procedure 23. We know when the session started. We were able to propose amendments at the end of last month, and on the law of the Government, which was required by the rule not less than five days before the beginning of the session to give an opinion on the law, she did so today. It's November 20th. We submitted the amendments in October of the month. The government was supposed to give an opinion before that. The government did not do that at the end of March, and the untruth here said that Mr. Milivojevic's intervention in law could not be correct. On the Justice Committee today, I suggested such an intervention. Of all the Committee members present, how many voted for this proposal? One. Everyone else wasn't for, or against, or abstentions, they were silent because they didn't get a political order. It's nice what we're getting from the representatives of the legislator of this law now that it's going to take... But what do we wait for if it could be done today? We're all waiting for something. Until when, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27918	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, I have a request for you. Now that we're moving on to Article 5, and there are more of them, Mrs. Ranka has asked me, and it's the same article, if we'd like to make that one, let me say, a violation to give her our first word, to explain our amendment. Do you agree? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Yes. ) The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27919	I thank you, Mr. President. Finally, someone should start talking a little bit in the interest of both workers and citizens. Without any pulsism, I would really like this discussion of my amendment to Article 5 to be understood just as well. With this amendment, I suggested that the words be deleted: “by setting up roadblocks or other similar means. ” I think at least all those who have looked at the law know clearly what this is about. I suggested adding a new position, item 2, which would read: "If it puts an obstacle on road and rail roads without prior marking and warning citizens and users of road and rail cars to set up obstacles, it will be punished by a prison of up to three years. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Therefore, setting obstacles to road and rail routes can only be a criminal offence if it has been carried out without prior marking of these obstacles, without prior announcement that obstacles have been set up. This isn't a meaningless question at all. In fact, this amendment to Article 290 of the applicable law, in my deep conviction, may have convinced me otherwise, wanted to prevent the blocking of railways and traffic by dissatisfied workers. This, in my deep confidence, represents a kind of retribution and punishment of the state, all those workers who have tried to fight for their threatened right in this way, to show their dissatisfaction and to turn to the public, in the extreme line and to point out the many problems they face. Now, to be clear, I'm not at all someone who's going from this pay phone and who's even representing and supporting roadblocking. I did several times, doing my job, just preventing such blockades, but unfortunately, very often I gave up on that attitude, and then at the end, when I saw that absolutely nothing else was possible, that there was no room, that there was no institution in which to talk, solve the problem, that hope or express the attitude that something should change, then I agreed to support and blockages and roads. Namely, this is about no one having the right to, fighting for their right, endangering the rights of others, but if you have no other options, if you do, you have a permanent employee status, and you don't get a profit, if you retire or prepare to retire, and then you realize that your internship hasn't been paid for decades or years, and you don't have an institution and place where you can solve it, then there's nothing left for you to do, but to show you your problem by blocking the right of another. I sincerely hope so, and I would like to hear it from the promoter if this wasn't the cause and cause of the change in Article 290, because it would be much better if we weren't always treating the consequences, but sometimes we would go the other way and start solving the causes. There are a lot of causes for this kind of consequences in our country. The institutions aren't working. There's no social dialogue in this country. The Social-Economic Council does not work as one place where problems are answered unconflictly. At the very least, in our country many other institutions have failed. That's why it's possible that some companies exist and don't go into bankruptcy and liquidation without paying off their profits for years. We cannot even allow a partial solution to these problems by individual officials, prime ministers, first vice president or others to leave and put out fires on individual tracks. That was almost in the FAP of Priboj, so I'm now asking the question of how those others who are taught this example, in the end line, seeing the result of some roadblocking, are now able to fight for their right when we change the provisions of the criminal law and the others prevent that, without any discrimination, if they can, and others, they solve their problems the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27920	Just for the public's sake, to find out that Mrs. Ranka Savic spoke on her amendment to Article 5. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Mr. Bozidar Djelic and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27921	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with this proposal, I think we see the true nature of this regime. The parliamentary group of the largest parties in this House, i.e. In this ruling coalition, it proposed a law that essentially sends a message to all people who are having difficulty living in Serbia today. It is very clear in this bill, which the Government did not have the slightest courage to adopt and propose and cowardly avoid to this day to give its opinion because it knows very well what is actually written here, she did this, the SNS, to send a message to those in Priboj, to those in the King, to those in Kruševec, to Kovin, to Leskovec, to Vranje – if you fight for your rights, we will declare you a criminal. That's the proposal of this law. To speak Serbian and openly, instead of proposing something to avoid consequences, it is proposed to criminalise families of those who come out of despair on the railway track. The Democratic Party opposes this. Our amendment deletes this proposal. I absolutely don't understand how parties that are nominally social-democratic orientations, such as the SPS and the SDPS, can propose one of these laws, that is to support it here in the Assembly, because this is going towards the path we've been warning us about for several months now. For citizens who have wondered if what the DS is saying is true, and to go towards narrowing down freedom, to go towards an authoritative regime, let me remind you all of what happened in Priboj. People who haven't even gotten paid in months, when they saw they couldn't treat their own children, that they couldn't verify their books, then they went out on the track to get attention. Then what happened? The first vice president said, state, i.e. I'll come if you get off that track. Because they don't trust anyone anymore, they said, "We want to see a solution." While this was happening, the President of Pruboj Municipality, Mr. Lazar Rvovic, unfortunately he's a law firm lawyer, he's at a public service service, so there's a video, thundering, said – you won't go off the rails, you'll fly into a company and have big arrests going on in Priboj. Now you'll see what you see. What happened? The first vice president has arrived. There's been someone, a very temporary solution, that doesn't actually solve anything, but that people can heal themselves. Look at the surprises, no shifts, no arrests. Now, that's your justice. It's your judicial system, and it's your principles and values. If you stand up to me, you're a criminal. If you listen to me, do whatever you want. Just as in the previously passed law, whose only goal was to abolish the court in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, so that negotiations could begin to enter the EU, not to lie, this law has as its sole goal of preparing itself safely, if I may say so, the adoption of the budget for next year, your $500m from the World Bank, to fire people and 200m euros for hopelessness and layoff. You're preparing Serbia for mass layoffs. Tens of thousands of people in the most sensitive environments will lose their bread, but you can't say that. You're preparing your police, preparing squads, so those who want to show for all rationally reasoned anger because you're not offering them anything, here's what the SNS Group here is offering. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS is offering you a pendrek. That's the policy. The Democratic Party is against it and we will fight in the field, you will see how, and here in the Assembly in all ways, that people who find it difficult not to be treated like criminals, but to find them a solution and someone better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27922	Mr. Djelic, I let you speak. I have to say, at least you talked about the amendment, that's all I'm saying. You said a lot of things offensively, but I let you talk. That's why I'm just saying you don't advertise later and react when you're properly answered. Please in that sense. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27923	When the previous speaker spoke of the pendrets, I believe he meant those Pendreks of Dragan Gilas and his security, when an ordinary citizen of Voždovac, who approached to point to an irregularity, to injustice, immediately jumped by bodyguards, immediately there were Pendreds, immediately there was detention, there was nothing there. I believe he was talking about those pins. There's one thing I can agree on. People in Serbia have a hard time living. There's little work, there's little money, there's hard life in Serbia. And that's true. But I can't even close my eyes in front of these announcements, and there's been a lot of pompous announcements from both this House of the National Assembly and that hall in King Milan. We remember the previous speaker jumping out announcing that we will be a member of the EU, that we will not be you, that we are statistically out of the crisis, but citizens will not feel it. You know, Serbian citizens remember and believe as much as they're told in the past. The previous speaker was the same in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2007, when he made such promises and such announcements. On the other hand, these catastrophic layoffs, Mr. Djelic was already at the time of the government where you were an integral part, during the time of the government where you inherited 13.2% of the unemployed and left more than 26% of the unemployed in this Serbia. You touched Boris Tadic when he announced 200,000 new jobs. There are 14% of Serbia's population left. You've made genocide with layoffs, and you can say that someone will fire and you can honor someone, and you can look into a glass ball.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27924	Mr. Djelic, I give you a warning. Please, the Rules of Procedure are forbidden to throw away. You've reacted to a man for five seconds, and I've allowed all of you to exceed the line for at least 20 seconds. You guys keep going like that, we're gonna have a real fight. I'm trying to be tolerated. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27925	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. Why? The gentleman, the previous speaker, relaxed and used one word extremely offensive. He used the word for DS to commit genocide. So that's why I apologize to you for reacting worse, because you'll agree when someone says for one political group that she committed genocide, it's not exactly a everyday phenomenon, it's not something to stay silent about. I think you have to react in these situations. You're not. Mr. Babic deserves a warning about a dictionary like this. He may stand up now to apologize, but I ask him if he stands up to apologize not to say – if I am, since it is not questionably found that he is. You can't put DS in the context of genocide, the Aryans as Ivica Dacic did, and that you think we're all gonna sit here like white tulips and be quiet. Imagine what we might say about them. The problem is that the consequences of their authorities have left cancers in Serbia and the region. That's the difference, and that's why it's wrong for someone to say that we committed genocide, because it is an insult to those peoples, including the Serb survivors of genocide. It's a shame, it's a disgrace, and it's the face of their parliament that's so vigorously defending, doing research on public opinion, not what's really going on here, and what's been happening to us since last night, because we know what happened to him, so he can't come to the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27926	Mr. Stefanovic, I must admit that in terms of using words in any context, genocide is not a bit of a pretty word. She's heavy and dangerous. I'm not gonna say anything about that. Please, when you are discussing any law to choose words and to maintain a dignity in this assembly. The word can be in a portable sense, the other can understand it differently, maybe that's what someone wanted. I don't want to get into it, but I agree that the word genocide here shouldn't be used, because I don't think anyone in this country has done genocide here. The Serbian people are not prone to genocide and therefore I support you in this regard. You may request that we plead in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll take it. I'm withdrawing Djelic's warning. I realized that your reaction was in terms of time overruns, and that's why I reacted. If this is why it was a reaction, I understand, and in that sense I withdraw the warning. There's more to be reported. The first reported was Borislav Stefanovic, Janko Veselinovic, Srdjan Milivojevic and Bozidar Djelic. I'll delete the list, and you guys can figure out who's gonna go first. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27927	I don't know who jumped, but the citizens who remember everything know who was then against joining the European Union. We know that well. They remember well what you were saying back then, how you threatened to welcome President Tadic and me back from Luxembourg. We remember. But it doesn't matter what we remember. We remember what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember. That's why we say today - during the first half of your term, you're almost half your mandate, investments have fallen, prices are rising, you've raised, i.e. In a few days, you'll raise VAT on zeythin, on bread, on sugar, on communals, on medications. This morning we saw you won't listen to what the print media is looking for, which is not to increase VAT - and you'll do it. Basically, these changes proposed by the SNS are actually the right preparations and, Mr. Chairman, I've been talking about the amendment all along, if I have to remind you, this is about an amendment that needs to be deleted by Article 5 where SNS says it should become a criminal offence to stop a means of transport in rail traffic against regulations. I talked about it all the time. And everyone in Serbia knows very well that this law, by the most urgent procedure, came to the Assembly after what happened in Priboj. Everybody knows that. This is FAP law. This is against all those people who don't know what to do with themselves and their families. That is why our amendment is very clear - we are erasing this provision. We can't solve people's suffering by declaring them all and their families criminals. We need to find the right solution. That's why we, and that's where I'm going to stop this replica, in the weeks that come we're going to draw up a plan to get out of the crisis and for the most difficult cases, such as Pribo, Kings, Kruševac, Leskovec, Vranja, and so also Kikinda, Somboro, New Pazar. This is what our citizens expect and where the SNS provides 600m euros in next year's budget just to fire people, and this law means that if they rebel then all criminals, DS says – we don't want it, we refuse this, and we want to find a solution and programmes to hire you and find the right solution for your future and for the future of your families. It's the right solution and it'll be our policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27928	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27929	What do you say after this? New suit, new hair, loose beard, and everything else, it's all forgotten. People's MPs are getting out of town. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27930	Please, gentlemen, you can't hear yourself. Don't act like that, I don't see that being so offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27931	I'm asking you not to count me this time. I wanted to say that I'm not into double standards, that at the moment when a colleague, a previous speaker, reminds me of things, then it's legitimate, then it's okay, then it's right. When it is done on this side, for all irregularities and for everything that has been done in Serbia, then it is bad, then it must not, then there should be shut up in front of such things. Now he complains about the evil fate of just over 24% of the unemployed people in Serbia. Who left them out of work? During which governments did they run out of work? And it's said, as unfortunately the party to which the previous speaker belongs, can't get out of a pre-election campaign, out of a fear campaign, out of a threat campaign, out of an inflation campaign, shortages, no fuel, no oil, no bread, no life in Serbia, only life with them, with this continuation and unemployment and everything else. Is that what happened? No, it's not. Now it's looking at the glass ball again, and now it's back to a law that's come a long way before all the problems our society and these people in Priboj have, and it honors that it's actually a solution to some future things that are going to happen. All in the future, leaving people without a job in Serbia doesn't matter. Forget it. They paid the political price, that's enough. It's not enough. On the other hand, they say this government is about to create a disaster. And so for two years. And so on in the campaign, and so on in the formation of government, and so on every day. I admit one thing – it is harder for you. No boasting, no kidnapping, no car, no cabinets, no all that, but it's important that Serbian citizens are better off.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27932	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27933	Article 27, I have to tell Mr. Arsenovic. I answered the moment he started speaking Mr. Babic. I could have picked up the phone a minute before that. It's the same situation. You dropped this out of some line. I agree, today you're trying to sort of warn, but post-festum, speakers. If the budget debate has started, then the others in this room want to talk about the budget, Mr. Arsenovic. It's really not funny. I think time is an important resource. If the budget debate hasn't started, then don't let anyone talk about the budget, someone answer to it, then there's a new circle, and there's no end. It won't solve the problem if you take a break at 2:00. It's going to continue the same thing in three because it's a deep problem. Please stop this. Please don't everyone go into the debate here. How great is it in 2013 to have someone on the track and in 2001 not and almost lynching ministers at the factory in Kragujevac? I think it's wrong both in 2013 and 2001, that no one should be on the track. Don't get into it for a discussion about this. Then came the word: genocide, which is terrible. That's really inadmissible. Then you explain that no one in this country committed genocide and now I remind you of the judgments of international courts on that. We're just sinking deeper. That's why there are Rules of Procedure and rules so we don't go into such discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27934	Mr. Djuric, as far as this debate is concerned, I fully support you. I've been begging a few times and trying to avoid and trying to be understood. One moment my patience will come out, and then I will bring this to an end, this session will end, be sure, in any way. I agree, one side says they speak according to the amendment, and essentially speak in principle or go into political matters. You're absolutely right. It doesn't matter either budget, VAT, sugar or milk. I agree with you. It's all about everything, and at least it's about the amendment. In that sense, I won't allow it from now on, and I will interrupt everyone and warn anyone who tries to move on to a principle debate beyond the amendment. I accept your position. It's not a threat, but it really doesn't make sense. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours, but no longer until the search is completed in detail on the fifth agenda of the session. Now I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 15.05 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. There's only one thing I have to say. I don't have the opportunity to replicate, but before I open the debate, I have to say, when there were words from Đuric about genocide. He believes that, as I understand it, the Hague court has confirmed genocide. I disagree with that and I still stand at the point of view, which is what I am obliged to say as a man, that Serbs are not a genocide people and to add that, when it was a resolution on Srebrenica, I was one of the few MPs from a position that did not vote for that resolution. It's right to think what he wants, but I do it for the public and for my personal opinion, that's what I want to say. The scene now includes an attempt to revise and the First World War, you've seen, now that Gabriel Principle has declared, some will, etc., not to spread the subject. I simply want to confirm my position that the Serbian people are not a genocide people. We're moving on with our work. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27936	Thank you, Chairman. I'll also use part of the time of the parliamentary group. So, for a reminder, the amendment that we have submitted together, Srdjan Milivojevic, Borislav Stefanovic, Bozidar Djelic and Nenad Konstantinovic, concerns Article 5 in amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, in which SNS MPs proposed that in Article 290, paragraph 1, following the word "traffickery", he added, and said "a halting the transport means in railway traffic contrary to the regulations". What does this mean? This means incriminating rail traffic in any way. The reason for this proposal is nothing caused, because the essence of these amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure is primarily to allow sanctioning criminal acts relating to infrastructure damage, shah theft, lids, fences around highways, etc. This, like a few times before, lays cowardly eggs in a bill that doesn't deserve it. No one argues that it is necessary in the Criminal Code to better regulate the punishment of those who damage infrastructure for small profits and threaten the way life, the health of citizens and cause great damage to the communal system. In this regard, there is no problem, nor is there any problem in the matter of this Criminal Code that we are talking about, nor is the Code of Criminal Procedure, that this matter be settled in an adequate manner, that the perpetrators may be punished and that they may be severely punished. Of course, it is also necessary to respect those amendments that talk about failure, so that some cases do not come out of the proposal's intention, which is that the perpetrators of such criminal acts are punished. However, the state of application of the Criminal Code and the application of the Criminal Code does not give the right to a parliamentary group that also has a minister of justice to discuss and explain the law in this way, very often accusing the previous rule of justice. Why? Because there's no paper in the courts that loggers type the record or verdict. Because in a court in Novi Sad, again today, no detector is working to check whether the persons entering the court have metals on them, and today a bomb has been reported in a court in Novi Sad and today no hearings have been held on numerous cases, in all courts that are located in one building. It's happening more and more often. We asked the minister the other day what he did according to that plan. I don't know how much that deal costs, but imagine all the consequences of postponing the debate from day to day because the Ministry of Justice can't find a solution to that question. I therefore believe that this amendment of the Code gives one picture, as the main party in the coalition, of the SNS makes something revolutionary in the amendments to the Criminal Code. Unfortunately, the existing Criminal Code, nor the Criminal Procedure Act, are applied in the right way for several reasons – for the reason that certain legal acts may not have occurred earlier in the procedure, so they may have changed some of the shortcomings observed through the application of system law in the area of justice. It was only the other day that we discussed them, and today we voted on an emergency procedure beyond all other laws. Why? To abolish the court in Kosovo, Mitrovica, and thus meet some obligations towards the EU. However, a concrete proposal to amend the Criminal Code refers to the blockade of rail traffic by stopping the means of transport in railways against regulations. Why has this amendment been found in this proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code? Because the ruling coalition, headed by the SNS, has no other way to stop social unrest because of the growing social situation of citizens. Honorable proposing representative, Serbian families are having a hard time living. We have families where five, six members, none of them work. Some of them finished colleges and waited for work for a year, two days. They expected you to bring foreign investors, to allow domestic entrepreneurs to create new jobs. They didn't expect you to fire the workers, but for those who protest the prison. Why are you doing this? You're doing what's going to happen next. The 2014 Republika Srpska budget for the amendment envisions 600m euros in severance payments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27937	Please, Veselinović, come back to the agenda after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27938	Mr. Chairman, I'm talking about the blockade.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27939	Please don't, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27940	Let me finish the sentence, you'll see it does.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27941	You can say there is, but I'm telling you there isn't and I'm asking you to get back to the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27942	I'm going back to the dark. In the budget, the government of the Republic of Serbia for next year, 600m euros are scheduled for severances. Sixty thousand people, according to this plan, will be out of a job. They can potentially block some tracks. These are the people you're afraid of, you're afraid they'll go out into the streets, that they'll block the tracks. Not only that, but another 40,000 people will be out of work, because firing these 60,000 people will lead to a decline in consumption. It's a total of 100,000 people who can protest even on the tracks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27943	Mr. Veselinović, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27944	What doesn't make sense?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27945	You can't convince me that your discussion in the last three or four minutes is about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27946	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'll read you the amendment one more time. The amendment reads that Article 290, paragraph 1, after the words "cars" add to the words, "by stopping the means of transport in railways against the regulations". These people can stop traffic like they did in Priboj. What's the matter with my interpretation of the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27947	It's just your assumptions. Please, if you don't come back to the agenda and talk about this amendment, I'll give you a heads-up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27948	This is violence, the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27949	It's your right to think so, but I think I'm right to demand that you stick to the agenda, and you argue in principle all the time. I mean, not all the time, but most of the debate is being conducted in principle and in conjecture. I'm not gonna let that happen, as much as you guys are mad at me. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. And you too, Mr. Granny, please stick to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27950	I'm reporting for the amendment, and it could be a replica, since it's been mentioned several times by the SNS. Anyway, but very cultural, like everything that's happened so far. I'm sorry that here in the House of the People's Assembly we're promoting some values that are bordering on psychicism and what's going to be, what's going to be. I wish that this psychicism was used two or three years ago when they were participating and being the main party of power, so that he could see then what kind of political fate these parties would be with hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people who were out of work, but measured by 13.1 and over 26% in just four years, and during one government, they were out of work. Then you should have been psychic so that you could predict measures and prevent something like that, not now some new fears and some new announcements. Besides, if the SNS were doing something bad, she wouldn't have won, and she wouldn't have won all the elections wherever we showed up. And today, according to a public opinion survey, the advantage and trust that citizens have in SNS is 46.1%. That no fear, no untrue, no announcement of cataclysm in Serbia can change because it is dishonest. This amendment is unacceptable for the SNS as a legislator. It's unacceptable because it's mixing terms, petty politics, because there's a clear strike law. If everyone in Serbia is willing and has reason to strike, the provisions of the Strike Act apply, and where it will be maintained, how it will be maintained and what will be done, and by these rules both now and in the future, if necessary, people in Serbia will be able to express their opinion and their demands. Target of these changes to the Criminal Code were those people who in 11,000 attacks, I am free to say attacks, on "Serb Railways" caused direct material damage of a billion and a half dinar, caused the derailment of freight trains, and that before that the freighter with mere luck passed a passenger train without damage. I admit, we're not psychics. I wish I could see things coming in the future, it would be easier for us to decide some things and do more for the citizens of Serbia. I am not psychic to predict what will be in the future and whether we will succeed in this law to bring down zero damage to the public sector and our telecommunications systems and energy and traffic sufferings because of this, but do not call on the drought, do not call on bad in our society. Because if it's bad for Serbian citizens, it's for free that one political option or two or I don't know how much to jump. Let's not look at the political party's interests if the citizens of Serbia drown. I guess we should work, not just verbally to work in their interest and not to predict cataclysms, not to send messages – citizens, buy bread, oil, it's over, the end of the world. Don't do that. You've been doing this for two years, and you've been punished by your citizens for two years, and you continue. The same thing has to be repeated over and over again. You want to see what the effects of the railroad theft are? Is this what strikers do? This was done by those who were not punished by law for stealing rails and couplings. Look at the railroad. Is this the railroad Serbia deserves in the 21st century? It's not. They are meant for this law, for those who have done these things. Look at the thresholds without any track fixation. What do we do with them? Are we going to let that be done any further? I don't think so. You will have every right to this world, you will have this Assembly, and in the future, if someone in Serbia fits this law because of the strike on the track, you will be able to come out and say—e, it happened. But don't in advance sow fear and terror. Don't sow anything that's not in Serbia. Give us creativity. What came as creativity, I said, I'm ready to do, as I'm prepared to support what you said earlier, that the court in Novi Sad doesn't have security doors. That's scandalous, I admit. And we need to do things like that to point out things like that. It's okay, but don't be afraid, don't be false. It's a lot of cheap political points if they're made by fear and if they're made by false.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27951	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27952	Chairman, I just don't know what tone to speak and what to say. Mr. Babic spoke six minutes past the topic, and you didn't warn him. If it was a replica, it could have been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27953	Mr. Vesenovicu, Mr. Babic has also used the time of replication and the proposed authority. Please, I was careful, his whole story was the answer to your questions. I have no reason to protect Babic, but everything he said was in the context of what you've been up to. So you can't ask me to let you tell one story without allowing another to answer those questions. I'll cancel this time, it won't be included, and you call back. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27954	Thank you. Therefore, there is no need to be a psychic and to see people living in Serbia for the last year and a half and to see that wages are lower and that there is less and less in their consumer basket. Shouldn't be a psychic if we've heard that will be amended laws that will increase VAT to zeytin, as my colleague says, on sugar, on bread, on all food products, some products to 10%, and some to 20%. You don't need to be psychic and see that the standard is falling, that the prices are increasing every day, that there are no new investments, that people with completed college are looking for jobs abroad, because this government isn't capable of providing new jobs, there are no new jobs, there are no investments, it shouldn't be a psychic for that. It should not be a psychic and read the law, i.e. the 2014 budget laws, where 600 million are scheduled for severances. Six million euros. Who will these severances be intended for? For employment? No, someone to fire. According to our calculations, it's for 60,000 people and another 40,000 people who are going to lose their jobs as a result of these people's layoffs. That's 100,000 people. You don't need to be a psychic for that. That's not why you should be happy. No one's happy about it. We do not have a government that is able to provide new jobs, but also responsibilities and in other ways provides funds for severance or for temporary care of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27955	Please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll really finish the debate if you keep this up. Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27956	It'll be less than two minutes because I'm going to ask two simple questions that I'd like to get an answer to. The first question is, if the previous regime and the previous government worked so great, so good, everything was like a thread in Serbia, everything worked out, everything was fantastic, why did you lose the election? Why did the citizens of Serbia not trust you to lead them forward so prosperously and so well? And the second question is also simple -- if everything is so catastrophic for the last year and a half and only the last year and a half, and if it's all so black, why is SNS the biggest and most responsible party in the government of the Republic of Serbia won all the elections that have been so far and won trust with the citizens of Serbia? How come only you see something that Serbian citizens do not see? How is something like that possible? I'd like to just get an answer to those two very simple questions?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27957	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27958	Replica, because DS has been mentioned multiple times, and it's also time to answer two questions, which is actually one. So, you're getting elections for now, they're being won by Slobodan Milosevic, and his ratings grew as citizens fought for bread here in the Student Square, while young people went and died in the wars, he grew up to be free Milosevic under full media control, and particularly state-run, which is what you're doing. That's part one answer. The second part of the answer is, you know how, look forward to it here and, like, a dying voice with a lot of false self-esteem as your legs kneel, you know how much you fall more, you say here, so laugh. Laugh about how your ratings are growing, and Serbian citizens are down. Their standard of living is dropping, the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia has been down record since you've been in power, and I wouldn't laugh at this if I were you. Because there's nothing to laugh about, except laughing at that helium of yours that you've filled up with, only you don't crack, gentlemen. Let me tell you one thing. We have enough strength and capacity to persistently show Serbian citizens what they already see every day how wrong you are and how missing you are. It's not enough, we have to give them a proposal and we're making a proposal. You make fun of these suggestions. You're showing that railroad. Show that railroad to Simi, your director at the Railways. You show him what he needs to do instead of doing what he does. Don't show us the rails, show him the rails. Show the man who hired half his birthplace at the Railways. Show your directors who don't know anyone but people from the advances in public enterprises. Show the Minister of Foreign Affairs who's received an advance without a competition, and then we'll talk about saving for the screws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27959	Please give up the replica. I don't think that leads to anything. To follow the amendments, someone has to give up. You'll have plenty of time. So we're going according to the amendments. First Srdjan Milivojevic signed up, then Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27960	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS has submitted an amendment to Article 290, and that has been done by several of us MPs from the DS with a request to delete this disgraceful member of the law. This is a classic example of the introduction of dictatorship into one country, strengthening repression. This amendment that we are submitting is solely to defend the democratic flows of this society. We are submitting an amendment to request that this disgraceful member be deleted. It's not the first time in this country. But, Karadjordjevic Aleksandar, when he introduced the dictatorship on January 6, 1929, he went out to the people of Yugoslavia at the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and said – today I am introducing a dictatorship, disbanding the Assembly, and today it will be as I say. If you have such a rating to which you are calling, go out and tell it to the citizens. Tell us our intention is to take absolute power and prevent every protest of the citizens, every social protest. Here, if your intentions are really as good as you say, why is there no delay in this article? What are we going to do the other day, you heard the announcement by Ivica Dacic that the trains will go 200 kilometers an hour. Right after that, the train between Majdanpek and Zajech set fire. I guess from the friction, from the high speed. But let me ask you a question now. Since that train remained so set on fire on the track, is it a roadblock from indiscretion or intentional? Does it take an engineer to fit eight years of prison to go because he blocked the tracks because the train was on fire? Come answer me those who have such a big rating. Well, you had a higher rating in the '90s when we claimed that Serbia should go to the EU, and you called us traitors. Well, we're all in the same position today. There's no problem for me that you understand some things after 20 years of politics, but don't introduce dictatorship. Why are you passing an emergency law like this? For good intentions towards the citizens. Why don't you explain to me what business, human, political motives you've been under when you refused, say, to accept that we vote and plead and discuss the additions of the Arms and Ammunition Act? If we had discussed this law here in the National Assembly, adopted here, there would not have been many crimes after that. We'd prevent some tragedies. Where did you care about the citizens back then? Why didn't you accept him, too, to put in an emergency procedure? Do they not remove any irregularities? Of course it does. So, what tomorrow if the citizens of Triestenik who announced roadblocks due to nickel exploration in Triestenik territory block the track. One of my colleagues said that train tracks don't go long ago. But in law, we don't say that when you block a rail that trains don't go to, there won't be any eight-year-old slaves, they're said to go to jail for eight years. I'm undermining again, you've passed this law and you've brought and written it only when you've heard that the FAP workers from Pryce will block the track. In Krushevec, right now, a social time bomb is ticking. The four-way workers are on the street, my Krushevians, the Chicago Red Star, the Rubin Hotel, every day. You want to put them in jail when they're in protest looking for their rights. Now, we don't let it just go wrapped up in spite of that fantastic ratings that caused such a catastrophic economic situation, we don't let it go through in silence. But we tell you, when you intend to introduce a dictatorship, say, we are dictators, it's innate to us, we love to rule and want dictatorial laws. We're going to defend democracy, to barricades to oppose the introduction of dictatorship in the country. And that's not the first time. We survived it last time from you in the 1990s. That's what you were doing. The University Act, the most embarrassing in Serbia's history, the Information Act by Aleksandar Vukic, the most shameful. It was also dictatorial law. We fought against it. And then you had a high rating, so you went out and said, "We have a 50% rating and we want a bill like this." We said we have a 10% rating and we don't want a bill like this. And it turns out that we at 10% of the ratings were right. Not everything can be measured by ratings, you know, it's not smart. And finally let me tell you a few more things. I just now understand why your officials, party, SNS, are parading Serbia these days with as much security. They're not guarded by security. Security keeps Serbian citizens away from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27961	Let me just say the order, 'cause it's full of leaves. So, the order is this: Šormaz, Mikovic, Gojkovic Maja, Vladeta Toskovic Stefanovic. This is the order I mentioned. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27962	It is a strange dictatorship in which the ambassador of one of the world's largest and most powerful states says he does not see that dictatorship, and in that country there is much more developed democracy. It is a strange dictatorship in which today and yesterday, but in all the days to come, we can see in all the daily newspapers the same pictures and statements and the treatment of all the political options. But you can't look at that paper, you can see it backwards. They are watched from the "Pres" visa until it has been lifted, until Dragan Gilas has withdrawn from it because he has seen that he will have no more interest, interest through "Pres". It's a strange dictatorship that is now being conducted and, let's say, on tomorrow's show, on one appreciated show where I will be a guest, there will be three other MPs and all three from the opposition. Is that a dictatorship, gentlemen People's MPs? Whose heads are those dictatorships? Who makes that dictatorship? If the dictatorship is that someone can no longer boast in Serbia, that they can no longer use state resources, that they can no longer use official cars and cabinets and, I don't know, how many functions, maybe. But what a dictatorship in certain political options shows more and more MPs at the edge of this hall that came from this political party of freedoms, so when they really think about it, they end up at the edge of this hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27963	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27964	I'd like to ask an authorised representative, i.e. Proposer of the law to talk, to try to answer questions that we are completely in a clear, legitimate way in this assembly. And to realize that they are in power half of the mandate, that they have done nothing, that they are dealing with DS, that they leave the DS to try in these constraint frameworks that the law allows, that little remnants of legality in Serbia, and that we finally stand by their necks. If they can't do that, and if they're dealing with their own nonsense, reading their own research of public opinion and looking at their mirrors, where they're the most beautiful in the world, let them keep working. Please, don't harass the National Assembly with the nonsense you bring here. Don't shout, you're terrible, and you're yelling about double functions. Don't talk about the rich. Take care of it. Don't. I remind you of the words of your president – be calm, be patient, be patient. Soon one of you will be in jail. That's what the man said. So don't get excited. The person who yells at me now knows she'll be locked up soon enough. Then why are you yelling? I'm listening to what the first Deputy Prime Minister said, and I need you to do it. You may understand him better, at last. So the unbearable thing is, Madam Chairman, which is constantly when someone asks them something concrete, and that some proposal, they respond in a way that is completely inappropriate to this assembly. Either you introduce order to talk about the agenda point, or this will turn absolutely into a verbal war between a proper, working Serbia and those who break it up every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27965	Mr. Granny, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27966	In one thing, I'll agree, we can't talk about wealth, because my party's leader didn't build a company, as Dragan Gilas did, and he wasn't incometing it, but Dragan Gilas 38 billion dinars, and according to official data, the Agency for Business Registers, 38 billion dinars, only one firm, and only from the moment he became minister and only from the moment he became mayor of Belgrade. I'm sure in wealth, and we saw it last night boasting in one show with our wealth, as we learned that this firm had not changed its owner at all, but might be thinking about changing owners, and all the bells were announced that Mr. Dragan Gilas had sold all his companies, and now, last night, we saw and that it wasn't, so much about consistency, and what SNS was talking about and what we're going to talk about, and I'm sure, with the will of most of the MPs in this House of People's Assembly, these things have nothing to do with strikers. You can turn your head on the other side, and you can grumble over it, because you've mumbled years and decades ago. These things, look at these power lines, look at this, what this has to do with the strikes, do you want this to happen or not happening in Serbia? This is the SNS theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27967	The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27968	For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must say, first of all, let me give you a free advice, take these pictures, a respected colleague, and take them to Minister of Interior Ivica Dacic, if you're still talking to him, and tell him, "Here, Mr Dacic, according to the current law, not to what you're changing now, but according to the present crime, you're going to jail for up to 5 years, so I'm going to teach you, because you're an engineer, you're going to jail for those pictures you've shown. That's all you have to do to Dacic, not us, the Minister of the Interior in your government, in charge of half your term, Mr. Babic, you're in power, and you're telling us something. The problem is that you have nothing to talk about, so you're saying something, because you don't have results, something, you're talking. I asked you nicely, the company was called Professor, so it was called Block End Connect, so it has a third name, and Mr. Vukic worked in the company. Look at the leap of income, ever since you came to power, that's hundreds of millions and billions, and don't look at someone's thorn in the eye, and you don't look at them in yours. Who are you to tell us who we will deal with for years what you left behind in Serbia? We will deal with your companies, your wealth, your lying to Serbian citizens, the ruin you make every day in every city in Serbia, they know what you're doing. Don't talk to us, people are looking at you and laughing at you, more and more braver and I'm overjoyed about it, and you're just laughing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27969	Please close the lines. All right, one more round of replicas, here you go, and then please, we're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27970	In the sports jargon, they say – zicer. I'm grateful to the previous speaker for just allowing me such a bun. I purposely use those terms from the basketball union that is still burdened with politics, because Dragan Gilas is the president of the basketball union of Serbia. Politics and sports, incompatible, but when it comes to others, and when it comes to Dragan Gilas, then it can. I hope he has both the courage and the political wisdom to resign. But does this zicer mean – is Aleksandar Vukic the owner of some firm in Serbia or anywhere? Is he the owner? Dragan Gilas owns it. It bothers you that someone was working somewhere. Before that, you accused that no one ever worked anywhere and knew nothing about it. Now it bothers you when it works, now you don't mind when it works, but what it is definitely, a company that, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, owned by Dragan Gilas, has been incometing from the Agency for Business Registers according to what the owner of that company, Dragan Gilas, has reported, for the years when he was the minister, when he was mayor of Belgrade, 38 billion 938 million dinars. Imagine how many lives Serbian citizens have to work to see that kind of money at all. They can't even see that kind of money on TV, something that, in just years' time in power, Dragan Gilas as the owner has earned, and what we've been doing is being respected. What's owned? Which media are owned? Which company is owned? What's owned, except it's... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to you insinuated what we do and how we do. That's the difference between you and me. That you worked for your pockets, and we worked for the state and for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27971	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27972	I think the answer is simple. All media today in Serbia, except for a few islands of freedom, are owned directly or indirectly. Under control, absolutely everything is decided, and not only in the media, but also in the companies, all the ways of corruption have been elaborated, mostly from procurement in the clinical center and beyond. So, you're a party that not only has it put into what you're accusing others of, not you personally, but those people you've delegated, that it's immoral for me to think that this is the kind of thing that you bring up for a man who's registered, paid taxes in this country and worked before politics, and that's immoral what you're doing. It's okay for someone to work somewhere, but to work at a company that, in that way, looked wonders when you came to power so much increased revenues. You can't explain that to me. You can't possibly understand that, and instead of putting that thing aside and going back to the law and seeing why you want someone not to block the track, you're talking again about Dragan Gilas who's not here to defend himself, and you are like that, otherwise you do. You like to throw out from the wakes, which did not resell the burial place at Vranjska Banja, Mr. Babiæ. It wasn't Dragan Gilas, and there's no hotel in Vranjska Banja. Do you understand? No, we're being watched by people at Vranjska Banja and Dule Klisar who beat you to the punch. At least be honest with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27973	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: Replica, please. We end the replicas. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You'll get your word on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27974	Madam Chairman, I understand the dual arches, but do not prevent anyone from being in a lack of arguments, because of weakness, because of an unculture, because of his malice, he does not look himself in the mirror and two jobs where he is both in the National Assembly and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the coat of arms of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27975	Mr. Babico, please stick to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27976	... I stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that you should have prevented this kind of thing in time, I'm prepared for any kind of political struggle. I'm ready for every kind of expression, but this is impotence, Madam Chairman. Thirty-eight billion...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27977	My impotence, Mr. Granny, or what? Hold on to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's introduce this, you're the legislator and please try to...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27978	You're the chairman who needs to be on time...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27979	So I'm asking you to step out of the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27980	... which should sanction some things in time, which should warn people that they can't be here and at the Foreign Ministry, who can't get two jobs...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27981	Mr. Granny, second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27982	... And they keep two jobs while respecting other people's principles and not respecting other people's principles. Injury of the Rules of Procedure to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27983	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Janko Veselinović. I have to turn off the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27984	Please, Chairman, I think you should have warned Mr Babic in time. Article 106, and Article 107, injured both dignity and the fact that it was spoken beyond the agenda. However, I respect your way of holding a session and the fact that you are tolerated both by the opposition and by the position, but the simple words he has spoken are incorrect. Mr. Borko Stefanovic has one job and receives one salary. (President, from the post: Mr. Veselinović, please do not replicate when you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yes, but this is false at least. So Borko Stefanovic never received two salaries or worked in two jobs. It's a lie that was taken from the tabloids, entered into the congregation as a lie. Instead of talking about the subject on the agenda today, how to change very much for us the controversial provision that it is forbidden to stop the train and thus prevent people from protesting. We are not to prohibit stopping trains, but we are to say it in another way, giving jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27985	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? (No) Now, according to the order of words, Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27986	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course this amendment should not be accepted. The bill is clear, he deals with criminals, he deals with pests and he deals with those who do damage to rail traffic, and not those, of course I understand the explanation, I understand that he has the right to opposition, especially those who are in a drastic downturn of trust with citizens, to seek some way to draw attention to what he's doing and to blur out using day-to-day political situations, so when it comes to something about rail or railway, let's immediately do something that happened a few days ago, block one rail, let's talk about strikers, etc., as if there's no strike law that regulates it, labour law and all the other laws, but it just shows the weakness of the applicant and the ways in which they do it. I won't talk about anyone's house, though I might. I have an aunt in Golubic at Knin's, I could talk about how someone and how he renovated his house, and many people living here and refugees from that neighborhood couldn't make it to that kind of renovation of their house. Maybe once there's a theme, but since it's not the subject of this amendment, of course I won't talk about it. I understand when DS deputies expand the subject, you weren't there, you weren't having a session, the way they explained this amendment, and then they say, so I'm talking about this law, and they're talking about companies in restructuring, and they don't say when these companies went into restructuring and why. Because of failed privatisations or failed privatisations when they led the state. Then they talk about increasing the number of unemployed which is untrue, reducing the number of unemployed since the government's work, but not mentioning that the number of unemployed has doubled in four years of their work. So when they expand, when they say, I don't think they have any right to challenge us to remind them of what they've been doing and why there's been such a situation. You know, it's impossible to say now that we're in this law trying to stop people from being right to strike. They know very well that it does not include the right to strike to sit on the track or the road. They know it very well, even though I say it's not about this law, but they're saying it. They know very well that it doesn't exist because they sent the gendarmes to the people of Lapov, because they sent the gendarmes to the people on the Duke's roads when they were executives in the country. That's why it's their rating problem, as well as ours with a SNS rating. We have to solve problems, among other things, and solve them by this bill in this way, which created one incompetent government, one incompetent regime in the previous time. Of course, the problem is that we have so much rating that we can make after the next election, if we were these days, the government itself. You know, it's not a dictatorship. You weren't here, but there was talk of dictatorship. It's the independent rule of state by the will of the people, while everyone else, who hasn't crossed that half, is the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27987	Mr. Shormaz, I'm here now and I'm asking you to discuss the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27988	Okay, you're here, but I'm talking about the way they explained this amendment. I'm trying to explain to the MPs why this amendment should not be voted on. I can't get away from their explanation. So these were their arguments for the amendment. I agree with you. Totally irrationally, they have nothing to do with the bill's proposal, and they have nothing to do with that article, but we've been listening to it all over here. So, the currently incompetent organization that talks about ratings, and it doesn't talk about losing elections in several municipalities, can do it that way and the citizens see it, but that's why we have the right to respond. We will respond to the upcoming elections in Odzac and Belgrade, where they will win a convincing SNS, and that will be the will of the citizens, regardless of such an explanation of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27989	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27990	I'll try to speak slowly, so everyone understands me. I also spoke when I said they couldn't survive here in the procedure of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, so the Government realized and withdrew them. Now I'm also going to try to explain what's wrong with this bill. I support the amendment to Article 5, but only if we read the article. One, three and five. The bill will see the direct contradiction of one, the other and the third, and we will see how many discussions were absolutely unfounded and unfounded. In fact, not to go any further and not to read the Criminal Code in Part Two, only in this section being treated by the bill, to stick to the subject, is the fact that already today, in the case of bold theft, it is in a particularly rude and bold way, and what else is more than stealing a power line or stealing a rail of heavy theft. Let's read or as my colleague says - let's read. There's been a suspended sentence for eight years. When he crosses a certain value, the penalty threatened is ten years. If there is a will and willingness of the state to stand in the way of crime, let the law apply. Today, there is an opportunity to impose the same penalty, even more severe penalties than is proposed in the third member of the law, which is touched by Article 279. But now I'm going back to the fifth member, where the amendment was submitted, where a certain intervention was made, but I'm telling you that in Article 3. The bill, which touches Article 279, is abolished, and Article 5, which is touched by Article 290 leaves a stop. Come on or come on, as my colleague says, make a deal with yourself whether you should stop or not stop standing here. I don't think it's appropriate that under one law, which is the Criminal Code we have from members to members different attitudes and different application of certain institutes that are unique to the entire Criminal Code. If by any chance the government had done its job by March 31st and proposed a Criminal Code, we might hope it would be more fundamentally done. I understand the wish of the MPs to do for themselves what the Government, whether out of laziness or because of some other busyness, has not done, even seven and a half months, to do so in this way, but obviously it has not been done thoroughly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27991	The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27992	So, I have no intention of talking about everything and everything as colleagues without talking about the amendment. I think that the debate would be much shorter and more summary that the proposing, that is, that our parliamentary group and the mandated proponent immediately responded to this amendment with one sentence that we will not support this amendment, that we will not vote in favour of the DS amendment, and that would be the end. What does this amendment say? Just in the sea of words here and in the sea of topics that have been opened, colleagues have had a very tolerated chairman today, my compliments to the chairman. I hope they'll be like that in the future, no matter who's talking. It's just saying, it's getting wiped out. The essential amendment is very bad, and what we heard in the oral explanation or attempt, it simply mixed the grandmothers and frogs. That didn't explain anything to us, nor did the promoter convince us why he should give up the bill and why he should delete this whole law. The goal is simple, I will not repeat what the aim of this law is because of the legislators who did this for political reasons only, in order to tell the citizens of Serbia something, to try to fix their political party's situation somehow. It's a legal, legitimate, democratic right for every one of us who deals with politics. Our goal, the aim of the SNS parliamentary group, is why such a law, why Article 5, because such a law should prevent it from affecting potential perpetrators of criminal acts, to intimidate them and to scare the initiators of this law, so public enterprises, all major systems in the state, citizens of Serbia of every local environment, AP Vojvodina and do not suffer indiscriminate material damage that these crimes do. Who pays for that inconceivable damage? Citizens of Serbia, citizens of Novi Sad, citizens of Belgrade, are paying for this damage and therefore we cannot accept an amendment that says - is deleted. The purpose of this whole thing, meaning erasing this amendment, would be to inflict enormous material damage. What's the alternative? It would be an alternative, for example, to say in Article 5, that there is a tendency of the amendment promoter, to allow theft, to allow traffic to be stopped, to be allowed, because in that article it writes, if traffic is stopped, so I'm saying, contrary to regulations. So, if we allow a breach of regulations and allow major material damage to be done. Since we don't have a dilemma that we should allow it all, we can't accept this legal nonsensical and we can't accept these, let's not be rude, let's not use the word, I'm really living off this salary, so I can't pay the big fines that would come if I said what I really think about these amendments, so we won't accept this. There's no need to convince us. Serbian citizens will be pleased if we prevent such great damages as have been paid so far by those as taxpayers. Whether we're right, we'll see, as fellow Shormaz explained our position on this amendment, he said, in the Odzac elections and a little closer, but tomorrow, at the session of the Subotic City Assembly, because the DS coalition partners decided to transfer power and to vote non-trust to the mayor of Subotica from DS and support SVM and SNS proposals. That's why we're going to propose this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27993	The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27994	I think it's an expression that someone for political reasons submits an amendment, that you should intervene. I don't think that's absolutely right. Secondly, during the discussion itself, certain lies were clearly made. In Article 5. A bill of law, to which the amendment was submitted...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27995	Mr. Mikovic, just a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27996	It's true that there's something else written. The bill adds: "by stopping transport in rail traffic against regulations". But so far, there's that if in any other similar way...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27997	Mr. Mikovic, please, it's a replica. Thank you. How the messengers of the people will express themselves, what opinion they have, is indeed their attitude. I don't want to affect anyone's exposure either. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27998	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why this many halabukas have been raised by the amendment's promoter to this Article 5th Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, because if their amendment to delete this article, then that's where all the criminals, all the thieves, are emboldened. One state can't accept that. We intend to bring order and justice to this country. The impression is that some people will not accept order and work in this country, and we have promised to bring the state into legal flows with various laws. This Article 5 only adds that stopping transport means in rail traffic is contrary to the regulations. So, what's in the car parks is true, and here you don't allow it because a member is completely deleted. I repeat, you're ablocating everything that's worst for the state, and these are criminals and thieves. Whether they took one bolt or a meter of rail or a single power line, it's a security crash, because one train, one car, or any kind of water object, can't run into a sudden obstacle without sanctioning it. So the SNS and the bill promoter want to put order into the state. The fact that you don't like the introduction of order will show up in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u27999	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28000	As an authorised representative, I will speak. It's not true that we're proposing to delete article 290. It is true that it is proposed to delete Article 5. The bill, to remain the current solution, and the current solution definitely provides protection both from theft and theft and from heavy theft, and what remains in Article 290 – which by destroying, removing, or causing serious damage to traffic devices, means, signs or signalling devices or protective and separate fences, which serve the safety of public traffic through, giving false signs or signals, by setting up obstacles to traffic or other similar means, and even this, could, thus, endanger public traffic to put life and the body of people and property at risk, so it remains. The only place we're plowing is whether or not this rail or sea traffic needs to be pointed out, or if I don't know what it is. It's all covered. We ask that the current legal solution remain, which was considered by the government of the Republic of Serbia by yesterday or was lazy and did not make a proposal, although the bill should have been done by March 31st. That's the whole story. There is no basis to claim that the DS parliamentary group is not in favour of compliance with the law. On the contrary, we are for the respect of the law. We are that even now the applicable law is respected and that all those who have committed heavy theft, who have destroyed power lines, stolen material, are processed. Who doesn't? The state doesn't work. Who's responsible for the functioning of the state right now? You know who. That's certainly not DS right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28001	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28002	Thank you. I have the impression that the gentlemen of the former party have turned the turkey a little bit into a different story. You were telling one story earlier, now you're telling another story. You probably realized that you were wrong in your presentation about half an hour ago. Now, what you're trying to do as your history, that's a different story. But it's about one other thing. What my colleagues have already pointed to, it's not just about stopping traffic. What's the basis of the whole thing, it's not traffic stopped, it's not so bad, it is, but it's not so dangerous if traffic just stops. But stealing a few-tenths of a meter, just a few-tenths of a meter, they've been stealing hundreds of meters of railroad tracks, putting us at risk of killing a large number of people. If a ramp is stolen, as it happens on the road between Vrsac and Belgrade, it steals the ramp every few days, so the 200m train pushes the car carrying the railroad, or, if a railway bridge is stolen and parted, as it happens, that's the whole point of this part and this whole law. It is normal to sharpen it and it is normal to sharpen the Criminal Code in that part, that such people should answer for imagination, or murder, because it is already the murder of a large number of people. That is where we need to strengthen our legislation even more. Why didn't you say that at first, Mr. Mikovic? Now you've turned the turkey a little bit, so now you're talking about something you've been defending before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28003	Please don't address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28004	I spoke to Mr. Mikovic on purpose. He knows very well why.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28005	The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28006	I never made a statement or took my own right to claim that what happened in Srebrenica was a brilliant military action. I never claimed that, unlike some with an argument that someone was there. The fact is that the current legal solution allows punishment in the same way as proposed by the bill. What's proposed? Maximum sentence of eight years. Right now, there's an opportunity to punish up to eight years for heavy theft. So, in a particularly bold and rude way for eight years. Here, read Article 1. It's a bill of law. When you read the provisions that change at the end of the law, you'll see. If the value can even be up to 10 years, it's just a question of whether this country will, can and has the willingness to fight crime. There are no legal interferences at this point, but let's just ask ourselves whether the law is being implemented or not, or now we're trying to represent that now that we change this, we're going to give a decisive blow to crime in Serbia. Is that what we're going to do? If that's what we're going to do with that final blow to crime in Serbia, well done, then let's all take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28007	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28008	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to prepare better for the Assembly meetings in the future, to read the legislative proposals you write yourself, which you give, and in particular I ask you to read the DS amendments. So now you're caught not with your hands in a jam to your elbows, but you've also pushed your head into a jar of jam. Don't do that. You don't have to do that. Here's why you don't have to do it. Since the first day this law has appeared to me the only thing we've been contesting in this law, and that's what we're doing to our amendments, is the fact that you're introducing a dictatorship in this country in a way that all these workers who are protesting right now in Serbia want to put you in jail for eight, three, five years, no matter how long you want. We don't have any problem that anyone who steals a bolt, rail, threshold or ramp goes to jail, no matter what you're going to do after amnesty with some new law on amnesty, because you're the main criminal generator in this country because you amnesty, tattoo, take them over, beat them, but we don't want to introduce a dictatorship. We don't want to be in cities, and I'm the one from that town, from Kruševac, where a social time bomb is ticking right now, where citizens are about to block roads because they've lost their jobs under your advanced authority. We don't want you punishing citizens for protesting against you. This isn't about stealing and don't deceive the citizens. This is about citizens having the right to come out, protest and block the railway at moments of their legitimate dissatisfaction with this pest government, the worst since the arrival of the Southern Slovenians in the Balkans, because you wanted to have a good intention, why didn't you decide to punish the one who blocked the other roads? I don't want to talk about those seaways that aren't here yet, about highways. There's only talk here about the railroad. That occurred to you the moment the FAP workers came out of Priboj on the track. Now I ask you, when the next day, 20,000 Triestenik residents, 20 thousand Triestenik citizens are on the track to block the railroad and the road because you gave permission to explore Nickel ore in Triestenik territory, where are you going to put them in jail? You want to put them in stadiums? It would take 20,000 people to arrest. Is that what you want to do? It's a dictatorship. If you are not aware that you are introducing a dictatorship, we will repeat it to you every day on examples of what you are doing and what you should not do. In the end, I ask that these laws be written by the waist. Every day I hear some high-ranking SNS officer saying we don't have any personnel. Onymad Mrkic has no powers for the ambassador to New York, no ambassador to Washington, no powers for the ambassador to Beijing. The other day, Vukic says we don't have the personnel to manage Belgrade, and you don't seem to have the personnel to write the laws. You only have human starlets filled with tabloids. Give me a piece of paper that'll write the law. If he doesn't know, well, here, call us, we'll help. What you wrote in this law is the introduction of dictatorship. It's not that the roadblock is a crime for which three, five or eight years goes by, as long as it's going to be announced to the gentleman. You can't keep power like that. Any preservation of power by dictatorship results in even greater resistance from citizens. Keep in mind that that's how you went last time, in the 1990s, by introducing a shameful law on the university and an even more embarrassing information law. And then you had a high rating, and then you called us traitors, and it turned out that it beat the idea of a European Serbia, which you have now accepted. Now we're being deaned again because we won't support you in dictatorship. Today we are the worst people in the world because we are the constant defender of democracy. Don't do this. You shouldn't play with fire, because you're not resistant to high temperatures.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28009	Mr. Babico, just tell me, are you answering as a proposalor or are you looking for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28010	I report first as a replica, then as a proposer. I believe with the staff and with all that knowledge, the previous speaker may be running to be an ambassador. I'm surprised they didn't predict him in the previous regime, and they didn't see the capacity to be an ambassador to any state. I see that this dictatorship, which was visible in the previous regime, left the genocide. I repeat, genocide is what you did in four years, increasing unemployment from 13% to over 26%. The genocide is to create a timed social bomb that's ticking, because that timed social bomb was built by DS. You made it. You've been firing people. You were selling these companies' assets. You're responsible for something like that. You're responsible for being at the top of the list by crime and corruption. You're responsible that rock tops the unemployment list in the world. You're responsible for bringing us to ruin. You're responsible. If you expect us not to remind you of this and if you expect that a reminder of this is a dictatorship that exists only in your heads and in your thinking of the fear of not finding in normal life for the benefit of the benefits and bahanals that you had and that you did during the previous period. But just so you know, workers and "14. October" and "Zupe" and "Red Stars" do not have to worry about their jobs or their social status. While these governments of the Republic of Serbia, as SNS heads both the Town of Kruševac and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia, each citizen is safe and secure, unlike you, who, I repeat, have made genocide in unemployment in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28011	Please, Mr. Babic, let's not use the word genocide in the National Assembly anymore. National MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28012	Dear Chairman, I believe you have violated the Rules of Procedure. 106th and 107th. This is the third or fourth time the head of the SNS parliamentary group has used the word genocide and that says that DS has created genocide. I believe this is the greatest humiliation of the National Assembly in this term. You didn't even give a warning to the head of the parliamentary group, the authorized representative. This is the way this assembly is humiliated to the point that DS MPs are really asking themselves whether they belong in this National Assembly, marking a whole party genocide and the fact that we created genocide. I can't understand how you didn't give a warning and didn't warn the head of the SNS parliamentary group on time. We know a good definition of genocide, and we know exactly what genocide means. Using that word so lightly in the heat of political struggle for petty political points is not right. We are in some way trying to talk about the subject, to point out the fact that the proposals really are not adequate, that's what we get from the representatives of the largest political party in the Assembly, that we have done genocide. And you stay silent on that. Only at the end of his exposure, do you ask Mr. Babic to stop using them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28013	Time. Thank you. Indeed, I ask all the messengers of the people to take care of their expressions in their presentations. I don't like a word of dictatorship. I didn't warn your MP earlier. So, you use hard words in the National Assembly and please, everyone, please, I can't respect dignity alone, and that you all... And it's your turn, Mr. Micunovic. You must wait before you've been reported yet. So, who's in the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28014	Madam Chairman, I truly believe that you have a sensitivity to words that are inappropriate in this House, but beyond your personal assessment of what is lawful and what is not, there are words that are inadmissible. So, I think those who want to amnest themselves out of responsibility for over a million refugees who have produced their own policies, for over 300,000 abandoned houses...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28015	Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, it's a replica already. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28016	Please let me just finish. So those who today are trying to use the word genocide to accuse the political party that fought against those who led you to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28017	Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, it's already a real replica. You know the Rules of Procedure well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28018	I want to point out why you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28019	Mr. Veselinović has already explained it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28020	You hurt Article 108 because you were under the obligation, Madam Chairman, to give notice. So you have to keep an eye on what anyone here says. Those aren't just words. It's about things that are inadmissible. If no one has accused them of genocide, for the policy they have led with catastrophic consequences, you must not allow without warning and taking away the words that they here pronounce the word genocide by referring to foreigners who have fought against their war policies all the time, which has led to the most terrible casualties in recent history.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28021	The warning is made in cases of insult. I didn't say it. That's what I decided. If you think you need to make a statement, we'll make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28022	You should.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28023	All right. We'll make a statement. The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28024	Members of the 106th and 107th dignity of the National Assembly. Even when there's an explanation in the Rules of Procedure, please wait two minutes, be careful and it's all right. But here are such offensive words used in reasoning that I can't understand. In my opinion, you had to stop, even if you gave a warning, to take the word out by the end of the session. The Serbian Progressive Party was formed five years ago. I'm a member of the SNS, I've been arrested 17 times by Milosevic's regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28025	Mr. Shormaz, stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28026	I have to say this. I was arrested 17 times, and she was a member of Covic's party. What's she talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28027	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28028	I'm a man who learns intensively every day. I'm ready to learn today and admit that I've learned, and you tell me what it's called, what can it be called when a government doubles the number of unemployed people in Serbia in four years? Merit, visible, scary from 13% to over 26%. Tell me, what's it called? The tragedy you want to make with comedy. Invisible. Come out, tell me – no people lost their jobs. What was unemployment in Serbia in 2012? Over 26%. What was it in 2008? It was 13%. On the side that you promised 200,000 new jobs. Who's responsible for this? What name do you call that? What name? But when the responsibility is mentioned when 13% of the people in Serbia lost their jobs, when it is mentioned that 38.39 billion dinars have been paid by the former mayor of Belgrade in those four years, they jump away, insults themselves, and I don't know what's going on. What's more than a dictatorship you'd like to conduct. About everyone and about every worst and most disgusting and it's democracy, and it's freedom, but only about the facts, the data that was entered in the APR -- 38 billion dinars were received by one company named Dragan Gilas, cannot be mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28029	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a folk MP, Professor Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28030	I'll talk about the amendment, but by the way, I'll only comment on the facts. Some time ago, we witnessed a phenomenon that threatened several segments of our society. It was a question of the so-called. copper mafias, mass theft of lids from various municipal objects, then breaking monuments into tiny copper and wearing monuments, taking down roofs, etc. There were several things at stake, first of all, and I think that was the most important thing, that was our cultural heritage. That little monument we have, because we're probably the country with the least monuments, they're broken, carried away. I asked the Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior here – can you trace yourself if they carry tons of copper daily, and that includes bolts from rail tracks, trafo stations, so the economy is being threatened, culture is being threatened, traffic safety – where does this copper go? Is it really that hard to find? In my naiveness, I believed that the price of copper and I checked it out, grew on the world stock market and thought that smugglers, like any other, were taking advantage of the opportunity and exporting it. However, I received assurances that no copper-broken truck has gone across the border. That means the others are here. How was it possible that a year and more, two can't trace those cargo yards and that smelter where only that fine copper can be spilled again? So DS has raised the issue of stealing, endangering roads, security, energy facilities, as a very dangerous, multiple dangerous phenomenon in society. They didn't give any police results. There's a roof off the art academy. That's what a crane has to come down for, that's tones. Is it possible that one patrol can't get past to track where it went? So I'm only saying this because it's known that many of us, above all in the DS, have seen danger and appeared and asked to get in her way. It seems extremely incorrect and it's precisely one amendment to the DS about what I'm talking about, because it doesn't want to hide or allow such a thing to continue to be solved, because there are also records, stenographic notes and they know who's talking about it, and that Valda hasn't answered that question to this day. Who are these organizations, who do this and what happens to copper? That's one question. There's another element we've decided to point to. It can happen easily, and this is one rule that many countries use, under the cover of security concerns and the fight against certain phenomena, are joined by others. We will have here a debate on labour rights, on strikes and on modern laws, as it has been done everywhere, but there are also situations, we forget that there are revolutions, so no one is going to ask permission to carry out the revolution. Therefore, we must take care of the rights of people. Surely it's not good to block the streets, and that police can also prevent first of all from talking to those people or affecting those unions or people, so that it doesn't happen. This issue that has now been brought forward as a major security is a prelude to the debate on strike and labour rights cuts. Be assured that we will stand up to it, not out of any will or trouble, but for the simple reason that there are responsible obligations that this country has. Since Tito's time, she has taken over all declarations, international labour confederations, the Human Rights Committee, the UN Labour Rights Committee. All of this must be brought into our legislation and we must respect it whether someone likes it or not. Here, let me say, by the way, a lot of passion, sometimes, seems to me, out of ignorance. The word is "genocide." I'm sorry, but I'm afraid a lot of people here don't know what that word means exactly. It means planically...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28031	Mr. Micunović, we're not going back to that, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28032	... The extermination of a nation. Now the next question is asked – do you know that in America, for 40 years, that word was banned in the free press because it was too abused? Only after the Ninber process, when so many victims, six million only Jews and others, were brought in by genocide regulations only then the word began to be used. By the way, when you're talking about DS, I witnessed the Bosnian genocide suit. I managed to prove there that the state of Serbia didn't do genocide because it didn't bring it, because in these parliaments I was, not one genocide regulation, not one genocide...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28033	Mr. Micunović, it's not really a topic, and I need to get you back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28034	An explanation, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28035	Okay, but don't talk about genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28036	You won't explain anything to me. There's been a lot of talk here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28037	Don't get upset. I'm just obliged to warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28038	Don't be afraid, I won't say an offensive word. I haven't said it yet. I'm explaining what it's like not to be fooled by misunderstandings or in passions I don't know what kind of hatreds to bring things people will laugh at if they hear. That's it. That's what I've been calling for. I urge you to continue, let's get this job done seriously, let's leave these other discussions behind. There are tabloids, so whoever wants a wide field, let them talk to him there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28039	Thank you. Mr. Grandmother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28040	I thank you, Mr. Micunovic. You just confirmed what I said. You said that genocide was a planned extermination of a nation, and I now claim that the previous government and the previous regime committed genocide against employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28041	Mr. Granny, I now give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28042	You've executed a plan of extermination of employees. (National MPs of the DS have left the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28043	I give you a warning. Mr. Shormaz, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28044	For five minutes, a colleague who yells - he's breaking the Rules of Procedure, he's talking about dictatorship. He talked for five minutes about dictatorship, explaining this amendment. I must say that I do not agree with him, explaining this amendment, and therefore I must say that we must reject that amendment, that the amendment is indeed unacceptable, that the solution in the law is far better, because the law proposed here does not foresee at all any sanctions for those who strike where they are not meant to strike. I repeat, this bill deals with criminals, those who do damage to infrastructure, does not deal with strikers. There's a special law to it. When someone explains, then they must expect to get an answer to that explanation. I tried to tell you this a little while ago, but you let one MP talk about dictatorship for five minutes, which is absolutely nowhere in this member of the law to which the amendment has been filed, and the whole bill can't apply. We heard various lectures, and we heard about how, for example, we adopted today something about a court in Kosovo Mitrovica, as if DS did not support the Brussels Agreement, as if it had not voted in this Assembly for the Brussels Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28045	Mr. Shormaz, you've been given your word to talk about the amendment. Please hold on to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28046	I'm talking about the amendment, but I'm talking about what was an explanation. I'm sorry that you weren't there all the time, but they were so explaining, and they were saying things that had nothing to do with the agenda, not the member, not the amendment, that we couldn't stay silent. Now that they're powerless, they're out. One thing is the fact, this amendment has nothing to do with the strike, the Strike Act deals with it, and those who sent the gendarmes to the workers and to Lapov and elsewhere in Smederev when the workers of the Irons, the enterprises in restructuring, which I defended from those same police officers, have the right to tell them, and that as an SNS MP to solve the problem of the Irons and all other enterprises in restructuring. I just want it to be clear to the workers that what was said here is an absolute replacement of thesis and that it's not true. That's why I insisted that it happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28047	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28048	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will be against this amendment, and I suggest that he refuses, I will say for what reasons. First of all, before I say so, let me say that today there have been too many unnecessary words by the amendment's promoter, for the reason that the amendment in some way, whether we want to or not, is actually fighting the sanctioning of those who are stealing from the railroad. Let me explain. So, crime on the railroad, breaking and destroying railway property. Look what can happen. It could happen that they steal on the train and stop the train. Then why are we against stopping, if it's this huge trillion-dollar theft, etc.? I must say that I was shocked by the position of an opposition party, even if it was foreshadowed by it – democratic, when it stands against it. I can't imagine myself thinking that he's fighting theft on the railroad and alienation of state property. Chairman, don't be angry, I think you should have warned all the MPs about the word "dictature". I'm sorry there's no Mr. Micunović. It would be good for him to explain himself as a philosophy professor in one sentence. But, let me, for the professors of the university who are watching us, our students to say, the dictatorship is almost when it compares to the sixth-year, such as Mr. Milivojevic, there are elements of fascism in the dictatorship. They are not aware that they were talking about fascism, calling SNS maltenes that it's fascist. I'm disgusted by that. If there were elements of fascism, we wouldn't be talking here in this assembly today. I'm done. In this sentence, let me just say that the dictatorship really was when this assembly was on fire. Then it was a dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-20-0.u28049	I'm really asking you, Mr. Atlagic, to get back on the agenda. Anyone else want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're finishing work for today and continuing tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you.
