ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-11-0.u21009	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I called for this special session to be addressed to the National Assembly by Mr Ranko Krivokapic, the president of the Montenegrin Parliament and the president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I am honored to welcome Mr. Ranko Krivokapic, as well as other members of the delegation attending today's session: his Excellency Mr. Igor Jovovic, the ambassador of Montenegro to the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivan Vujovic, the head of the Office of President, Mrs. Jelena Davidovic, the adviser of President and Mrs. Jelena Mitrovic, the adviser of the president. I ask Mr. Rank Krivokapic, the president of the Montenegrin Parliament and the president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-11-0.u21010	Dear President Stefanovic, Vice-President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is an exceptional honor for me to address you on behalf of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and on behalf of the Montenegrin Assembly for the first time in the national parliament since I was elected president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I wanted to stress my special respect for the city in which the second of the basic meetings of the then European Security and Co-operation Conference was held since 1978, and in particular respect for the Republic of Serbia, the country that will chair in the year of the jubilee, 40 years since the establishment of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation. I had this historic privilege to sit under this vault and act as an MP for seven years in two state forms. I had the honour of fighting with you for peace, good and civil democracy in the difficult times of evil that once ensued our country together. Today, I have the special satisfaction that in this highest home of democracy in the Republic of Serbia, as the first Montenegrin official since the restoration of independence, I also turn to myself as president of the world's largest Parliamentary Assembly, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The heart of the election is the dedicated and sincere support of Balkan representatives, where emotion, respected counterparts from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was particularly inspiring for all OSCE Parliamentary Assembly MPs. I'm taking the opportunity to thank you again for our victory together. My emotion is certainly greater when, as president of the Montenegrin Parliament, I congratulate you on opening accession negotiations, a historic step on the path of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. This is a confirmation of courage in making the most difficult political decisions and dedicated work that the Republic of Serbia has shown over the years that has been followed by late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and the rest of you have continued to this end. Soon we will be in the negotiating chapters together. On that road, Serbia can count on Montenegro, as well as vasda. Dear People's MPs, this is today the largest regional security organization in the world, which brings together 57 countries and has 19 missions on the ground, making a key contribution to three dimensions - human, military and economic and ecological. In the context of numerous attempts and initiatives, with the aim of making the role of the OSCE clearer in modern global political circumstances, Helsinki plus 40 is certainly a special commitment process for all members. Serbia will lead him to the very end. Helsinki plus 40 is a process and the latest attempt to reciprocate the OSCE's vision and role in Euro-Atlantic and Euro-Asian security effects and increase its efficiency. The outcome of this process should mark a new era of OSCE development, today's organisation reformes, deepens existing comparative advantages, strengthens mutual trust, provides mechanisms for agreement and responds to new challenges, and overcomes current and functional problems that reduce efficiency, organisation of action. Helsinki, in 1975, was an appropriate and comprehensive response, with visible results to the challenges posed by an era. Because Helsinki 40 plus needs to redefine the role of the OSCE today in no less challenging times. This one, like all other processes, whose reform lies at the core of the OSCE, can only be welcomed with dignity if we know that the international security environment is not uniform and homogeneous. We come from countries of different traditions, political cultures, but also prejudice. All this leads to different expectations from this unique organisation of multilateral co-operation. As much as we know you're looking for a strong team leader, I also know that our organization as well as anyone else can only be good if the whole strives well. To that end, we will only be closer to one another if we respect one another and understand one another. We will be closer to that goal by building our relationships on a compass, not just on a mere consistency. This is quite often the result of insufficient preparedness to move forward. In most areas covered by the OSCE, the financial crisis increases the risk of possible political instability. This can also lead to increased tension among neighbouring countries. As a result of the reduction of perspective and progress in the area of economy and human rights, security is once again imposed as an inevitable topic. In the years ahead, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly will aim to provide and work on affirmation and confirm its unique roles on the international political scene. The OSCE may only be allowed to be static in one field, the field of conservation of already established values. These values must remain undeniable, especially now more than ever when the international context is under intense change. Dear fellow MPs, the OSCE Mission is a permanent aid to the Republic of Serbia in building more independent and more efficient democratic institutions. Especially in the area of the rule of law, human rights, freedom of the media, law enforcement and protection of the environment. Also, our goal is to support civil society and encourage regional co-operation and reconciliation that contributes to a sustainable security and stable society of all citizens of Serbia. Through the Parliamentary Assembly programme, implemented by the OSCE, we want to support the work of MPs in order to strengthen their legislative and especially control roles. Parliaments strongly strengthen their vitality through training programmes and employees. We often forget them, and they are often the strength that gives us additional strength. Today, parliaments are becoming important centres of research and analysis. This is the basis on which MPs can build their views and represent those best from comparative analysis in order to make our society's legislation better and more comfortable for life. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in this term will pay particular attention to the projects and parliament, in order to allow for the transparency and efficiency of the largest legislative bodies and I congratulate you on the already "life screening" of your sessions, your working bodies and your full availability to the public on the Internet, which is another proof that parliament and parliamentism can progress in Serbia. Parliaments must have a wide open door for citizens, the civil sector by monitoring the watchful eye of the free public. In this way, we will ensure that parliament is the mouth of the richness of the diversity of attitudes, the waist for the best results that society will experience. The OSCE budget for Serbia from 2002 to 2013 was more than 100m euros, showing unequivocally that the OSCE has a strong will and willingness to invest and assist processes in the Republic of Serbia. Dear colleagues, it should be noted that Serbia has made significant progress in the area of the rule of law and protection of minorities, as well as in the fight against corruption and organised crime. He also saw a growing involvement of the Assembly in the work of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Europe and other organisations. These examples depict the internal strengthening of institutions in Serbia and the country's political system leading and significant parliamentary diplomacy. Getting a date of EU membership negotiations encourages EU membership and gives special strength to start mutual dialogues between Belgrade and Pristina and parliamentary capacities. The dialogue, in its own goal, must have a component of security, which is the main objective and foundation of the OSCE, which will lead to a multi-layered normalisation of relations in the region. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must count on the advisory and professional assistance of the OSCE on its way to further reforms and strength. Parliaments, especially in this part of Europe, play a key role as generators of peace, stability and reconciliation. Dear colleagues, in the OSCE area, parliaments have significantly strengthened their role in political systems over the past few years. The Lisbon Treaty, as well as the development of parliamentary systems in new democracies, such as ours, contributes greatly to strengthening the supervisory role of parliament, as well as strengthening our countries' parliamentary diplomacy. Under pressure from the crisis, parliaments begin to see that without strong control of the role of the crisis, the crisis itself will become normal. The challenge of the crisis is obviously, the usual political practitioners cannot respond. Practicers keep things going while it works, but they don't have the ability to change them individually, and together we won't be able to get out without strong leadership and vision. Its foundation is a strong parliamentary democracy, without it there is no strong leadership and vision. Management governments have turned the crisis into more force, and the crisis is the result of wrong political decisions, no more force. Parliament must therefore be a place to open the premises of unpleasant truths and take responsibility for painful changes. We Parliamentarians have been chosen to build the pathways of a safe future, not of instant love. The mandate of mind, the mind that builds its position for four years, is not worthy of the commitment we have committed to the citizens who have chosen us. It is often lost in light that parliaments are the source of democracy and legitimacy. It often ignores the public, as well as our colleagues from the executive government, who draw their legitimacy from parliament. We know the saying, we in these places know the saying, when the water is clouded, we return to its source, and that is certainly the democracy of strong parliamentaryism. Dear People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, today our entire region is seeking the EU right through lasting values, unity, tolerance and social justice, liquids that are one truly unpassed legacy of European civilization. After the collapse of our common homeland, we went through the ugliest two decades of independent decisions of the Southern Slovenian peoples. We have seen disunity lead to disaster, while accidents later restore the human need for cohesion. Those who have produced many things for more than 70 years and have easily forgotten many common goods during one period. Serbs and Montenegrins have a special obligation, to use their many times proven closeness to condemn policies that have taken place in each other's relations. Our humanity and heroism historically obliges us to face our actions and Sundays. By closing historic disputes, we set an example for others in the Western Balkans, thus opening up new opportunities for a common commitment of the region to the difficult challenges of the future. We know that without justice, there is no trust, no lasting stability. We, the Southern Slovenians, and others in the Western Balkans today on the day of the European memory of Srebrenica, as well as all innocent victims of Balkan conflicts, and there were on all sides, need unity in a joint progressive and emancipatory project. It is much more important than the unity that provides for the common borders of once a single state. As simple as we understand this lesson in our own way, our history is proof that we haven't learned it well yet. The defenses of boundaries drawn in the past, we have often and very easily given up the future. Cooperation in the common good, the will to accept the neighbor's success as its own and as a motive for its own, the policy of equality that is necessary for lasting relations, I believe it is the future political portrait of our region. Well, each of us does well for all of us, especially when it happens in us in close Serbia. We cannot make our history better, but we must take responsibility for our present and future. The great Milos Crnjanski told us a long time ago – happy peoples are looking to the future. Dearly beloved, let me finish my word purely in Montenegrin – let it be eternal Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-11-0.u21011	I thank Mr. Ranko Krivokapic, the president of the Montenegrin Parliament and the president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I conclude the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you.
