ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25149	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the National MP's term of office to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds that by confirming the mandate of MP Snezana Paunovic, selected from the electoral list Ivica Dačić – SPS – PUPS – JS. On the basis of the decision of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to MP Snezana Paunovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. Dear People's Parliament, I ask you to agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, the MP repeats. ) "I swear to uphold the duty of the civil servant to carry out committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice" Please sign the text of the oath. Congratulations, and I wish you successful work. We're going back to work. On the basis of Article 287(2), Rules of Procedure, Members of Parliament today have the right to request information and explanations. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25150	Please provide conditions and extend this time to me in 30 seconds. I ask the question to Mr Radulovic, Minister of Business in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and motivated by a significant and clear insight. The old ones were speaking reluctantly is a pillow of dishonesty, as well as in the development of every child, as well as in society in crisis. The situation of not engagement of labour, unemployment, lack of ideas about jobs and obligations that are ahead in a directly armed time, creates one excess valley with huge potentials of skating in the direction of unacceptable, undesirable, and social pathological behaviours. This seems to be the right time for the Ministry of Business to ask us to give us precise information on a clear and effective programme for restructuring of social enterprises in Serbia. If this topic had been announced as important for the URS parliamentary group, in fact, we have put the subject into public and political life, and the Ministry of Economy announced in 2014 as the year in which this capital problem of the national economy will be satisfactorily open, and in good works solved. However, in the absence of concepts, ideas, we already see huge material damage, not only in the economy, but in the overall infrastructure potentials of society. Only the protests of Kragujevac’s “Autosaport”, one of the companies in restructuring, are creating millions of damages on the infrastructure of the city of Kragujevac, which local self-government will have to compensate by means of budget funds, because during the period of the roadblock, heavy traffic, transport, takes alternative routes, roads completely unpredicted for such frequency and such traffic burden, without talking about losses suffered by small businesses, all trades and businesses that are necessarily blocked, demonstrations of this one company in restructuring. What are the losses and costs that block the coastal FAP? And not to mention the damages to all the companies that suffer losses, such as "Fiat" in Kragujevac, which Serbia's citizens will all have to pay by budget funds in the form of penals to prevent the normal business of these companies and to compensate for the damage they suffer. But it's that it's not like a pillow is dishonest, it's produced and it's much wider than economic and material damage. This is particularly evident in the policy area, when, in the absence of a clear and effective economic concept, the energy engagement programme of the population, the policy happily looking for alternative policy routes is actually in a form of regression that we must be aware that at this moment the nations and society in Serbia are on the verge of regression in the full meaning of this term, including psychological connotations. To remind you, the crisis, the frustration that does not receive its adequate response seems to be in our traditional forms of behavior, triggers a tendency to move on to overcome forms of behavior. Hence, this Renaissance of the 1980s in Serbia, the Šolovic brigades walking the country, the tiny anti-Birocrat yoghurt of the revolution but, for God's sake, the restoration of the cult of memory of communist leaders from the Broz family as the only country in Europe that has not yet had the strength to say – the denial of the communist evil, and here is already causing a sense of sin.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25151	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25152	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I also have a question for the minister of traffic for Mr. Drobnjak, director of "Srbijaputi", of the famous company, and as regards the route connecting Sremska Mitrovica and the town of Lacarac, which has 15 thousand inhabitants and in 2013, has a highway through a place paved by the Kaldrum. Every year, this road route is included in the "The Ways of Serbia" programme to finally begin the works, but the ones that live there, we cannot wait for it. There are initiatives that will obviously only produce results, which is that citizens will eventually organise themselves, so they will have to block the same route, in order to distract gentlemen in Belgrade, who, when it comes to bridges in the capital, when it comes to pawns, subways, then project documentation and main expropriation projects are done in six months, and when it comes to doing five kilometers of roadway in other parts of Serbia and Vojvodina, it will never happen. We have suggested that when the Law on Public Property of the Republic of Serbia was passed, the roads of the second and third order finally crossed over to the ownership of the AP Vojvodina, but it obviously did not happen. We have never received any too much explanation for this, but we are witnessing that even today, even though the budget of the "Road of Serbia" is filled with highways passing through Vojvodina, from the Belgrade-Sabotica road route, the funds cannot be used to maintain the roads that are important to us. When you say "Serbian Roads" today, it better be renamed a public company in "Pointholes of Serbia", then it sounds totally different to you, it's like a ski resort in Egypt or a beach in Hungary, so does "Serbia's Roads". I don't really understand why the gentlemen who work there and who question these famous tenders can't execute what they're paid for. The information I have, that every year is a problem, because they can't agree which manufacturer gets that job. I'd like an answer from Mr. Antic, is there a plan to start working on that roadway and why it hasn't started yet? There are people from local self-government who are my political opponents, and from some other parties, belong to the ruling coalition, who are also trying to put pressure on some of their authority and influence to pay attention to the problem, but apparently reach the Olympic heights of the Serbian government and the Serbian Roads Company, it is not possible. I would like an answer to this topic as soon as possible, to prevent the self-organization of the local population, which will certainly cause a number of problems. That road is in such a bad shape that a small businessman who came to me about it has a distribution, a certain number of vehicles, every year has to change a complete fleet because its vehicles are falling apart. In a joke, I say that when you go that way, which is five kilometers long, people have to go to the dentist, because their bombs fall off because there are so many holes and not only that the vehicle is falling apart, but the driver is falling apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25153	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25154	Madam Chairman, I have a question for the Minister of Health, and it concerns new scandalous practices in state hospitals that have been occurring mostly every year for the past 20 years. In many state health institutions, patients in hospital care are forced to buy their own medications, which medical institutions are required to provide. What's most important is that medical institutions don't have to do it, because they're mostly medications, I'm talking about medicines on the list of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which the Republic Health Insurance Fund regularly pays off for these medicines. Even though the Ministry of Health and Ministers are trying to idealize our health system, it is not only ideal, and according to numerous indicators, and according to these indicators is one of the weakest in Europe, even behind Albania. That patients in the hospital are self-purchasing drugs, that's better for their health, but it's not legal. Secondly, the largest number of health institutions do not issue confirmation to patients, that health institutions did not provide medications, so that they could refund the funds of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which is another illegal behaviour of a health institution. My question is who controls the behavior of a health care institution and who is to blame for the lack of some essential drugs such as wounded, diclofen, etc.? We are witnessing that the stock of stents are often very small and that in many clinics doctors are forced to delay surgery and to treat only emergencies, or, in translation, only patients who have had a heart attack. This, of course, has a drastic impact on the deterioration of the health of the population, that people with serious heart problems that should have this type of intervention with stents should simply experience a heart attack to get stent. That kind of behavior, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, is more than scandalous. The minister, and we can find out from the media, thinks that the lack of medication is primarily due to the health care facility, the management of health care institutions because they haven't well planned the number of supplies of these drugs. My particular question is what exactly has the Ministry of Health done against the managers of these health institutions, who have so far been held responsible for poor planning, because of irresponsible behaviour, and what in the future will the Health Ministry do to ensure that these phenomena no longer occur? We are witnessing that, despite the great announcements that waiting lists for various operations will be increasingly short that waiting lists are all socialised and that this is directly against the legal behaviour of health institutions directly endangering the health of the population, one of the basic constitutional categories, i.e. citizens' rights to regular and normal health care which does not provide them with this kind of behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25155	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25156	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a simple question for the Prime Minister, Mr Dacic - what will the Serbian Government do about the latest developments in Priboj, or all that is happening with FAP? It is impossible that, for three days, none of the ministers, government officials, have time to address FAP workers, or the citizens of Prudence. All these big celebrations, the support that you have and that you boast about, fall into the water when three days of the citizens of Prboj try to get answers from the government, from Minister Dacic, from Minister Radulovic, no longer what is with only one factory but from the future city. The only address we received from Minister Radulovic's adviser, Mr Pavlovic, this morning, and I can freely call it shameful. Why embarrassing? Because Mr. Pavlovic said that the government will gradually abolish subsidies to enterprises in restructuring and that ID cards are a condition for someone to receive grants. A message from LDP to Minister Radulovic and adviser Pavlovic that they can say that when they give us answers to the question of what did the Ministry of Business do to implement the Law on Public Enterprises, when they discuss competitions for all directors of public enterprises, when they appoint new supervisory committees and abolish boards? Failure to implement the law costs the state of Serbia 200m dinars annually. The people of Preboj did not forget the FAP workers were working, one morning they woke up, or deliberately destroyed their perspective. They came into this situation because of a poor policy, the wrong policy that has been run from Belgrade for 20 years. Wars, sanctions, bombings, long privatisations, and all that time, Pubics, FAP citizens, FAP workers kept their mouths shut and waited for them to come to the agenda. Today when they ask for an answer, they are not asking for false promises, they are asking for the truth. What is their perspective, what is the perspective of a company, what is the perspective of a city, what is the perspective of one end? The message from the citizens of Priboj from that protest is for us and the Serbian government, that Serbia does not end up in Zlatibor and that this part of Serbia is Serbia and that we are living there and that we will not allow ourselves to gradually die just so that someone has some justification and is trying in any way to justify their existence in the government. FAP workers have not been asking for anything impossible for three days, but are asking party leaders in power to do what they said when they were in the election campaign. They also spoke about strategic partners from Russia, Belarus, Turkey about increasing production, about the bright future. Of all that, you don't even have time to come to Priboy, but you had time to come when it was a pre-election campaign. Also, what we expect from the Serbian government, it is true, not only about FAP but also about the truth and the car traffic from Kragujevac, the truth about the oil factory in Krusevec, about many companies that have lost their perspective because of poor policies, not because of workers who have stopped working. One more thing, Priboj, I could say, and the whole Sandzak is an area with a high unemployment rate, over 50%. The whole neighborhoods, we say, are waving, young people from 18 to 35, when they get together, don't have one day of work. If we don't change that, if we don't give a solution to it, we are in vain talking about European integration and modern Serbia, because there is no modern Serbia if our citizens are hungry, if young people see no perspective and no future in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25157	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25158	The Honorable Chairman, I will ask two questions today. The first question is for the Minister of Traffic, Mr Antic, and it comes down to the following. Last year, his predecessor, Minister Mrkonjic, who is present here with the Mayor of Nis and with European Commission representative Vensano Dežer, signed a co-operation protocol on the construction and transfer of a railway knot that includes the construction of a 12km-long bypass that would inherit the current section of the circular track, which passes through the centre of the town of Nis and practically separates Nis into two parts, which practically complete railway traffic, whether it is passenger, whether it is freight, passes through the heart of the city itself. In the last 50 years, more than 150 of our citizens have been killed by unmarked or poorly regulated railway crossings and all of the management of the city of Nis in the last 50 years have been trying to agree with the Railways, with the Republic of Serbia, with the Government, the competent ministry to solve the problem of the railway that is going through the city centre, and our solution has been the solution that has been accepted in principle by the ministries, all ministers so far, it has been to build a bypass that would practically inherit this part of the railway and have thrown out of the city centre. A month ago, a newly appointed director, Dragoljub Simonovic, who is on the question of journalists – when he is moving or when he is planning to start work on the construction of the bypass; said that the section of the Nis-Promes, should remain in town and that he and "The Railways" do not support the idea of building a bypass. I ask the question of Minister Antić – has something changed in the meantime since his predecessor left to this day? Is the policy of his ministry and the "Serbian Railway" that the signed protocols are not respected? Will the arrangements for the construction of the bypass, the construction of the project, the study, be continued and completed? To remind me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia signed an agreement this year on a Russian loan for "The Railway", which includes five major projects. The Belgrade-Pancevo railway, which will be spent 50m euros, will be reconstructed in Corridor 10, six shares of the total length of 112km and will be spent 30,000,000 euros, will be reconstructed and the Stara Paz-Novi Sad railway will be built on which 300,000 euros will be spent, on various parts of the railway corridor towards Bar will be spent 250,000 euros, and the state reportedly has no 30,000,000 euros to build 12km of bypass around Nis. Indeed, an extremely rude attitude of the Railways and we demand that this matter be resolved as urgently as possible. The second question will be addressed to the Ministry of Culture. Since 2007, Serbia has been paying national pensions for people who have contributed specifically to the development of national culture and promotion of Serbia worldwide. Since then, the idea of being truly top artists and top athletes, the number of people receiving a national pension has increased to over 1,000 or over 550 athletes and 460 people in the field of art are receiving a national pension. I ask the Minister of Culture - where do so many inflations of people receiving a national pension and is it possible that the state of Serbia is so rich that over 1,000 people are responsible for national pensions? I note that national pensions are also received by active musicians who earn tens of thousands of euros for one of their concerts, while receiving a national pension. I demand from the Ministry of Culture to provide us with a list of what people are, how much money is spent and that this list is revised at the most recent time, so that it can be reduced to a proper measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25159	The word has a national emissary, Vesna Jovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25160	In line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to request a notice from Energy Minister, Development and Environmental Protection Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. As is known, the government of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on 14.10.2013 has adopted the Energy Protected Customer Regulation, or a threatened heat buyer. This Regulation lays down criteria, means of protection, terms of time limits and procedure for determining the status of an energy-protected buyer, as well as the threatened energy buyer. My question concerns mass power outages, which EPS announced and started yesterday. In fact, the EPS has started to shut down electricity to all users whose debts for spent electricity amount to over 10,000 dinars in the case of households. From a press release, you cannot hear what is happening to protected and threatened customers, and for this reason I ask the Ministry of Energy to ask whether the announced exclusions of electricity will include users with the status of an energy-protected buyer, or socially endangered family, given that this is mainly about extremely poor families, families with insufficient material income, families where both spouses are often jobless and regular incomes, single parents, families with special needs or pension households. Will the state protect these categories of population so they don't run out of electricity during the coming winter? Are there any activities planned in this direction at the Ministry of Energy and what? It is necessary for all citizens to be told urgently to know what they can expect and whether the state will in some way protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25161	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25162	I am speaking on behalf of the citizens of Belgrade, who have their private facilities next to the catering facilities, who think they are in an unequal position compared to their neighbours living in residential buildings next to the catering facilities. For what? Due to a decision by the City Assembly to broadcast music for catering facilities in residential buildings, it is up to 23, or Friday and Saturday until 24 hours, compared to non-inhabiting catering facilities that are subject to a decision to broadcast music for 24 hours. The number of these people isn't small. They're more and more reporting to us, the MPs. All their attempts to solve this problem have not yielded fruit, and with the communal police that appear at the moment, warnings from the owner of the catering facility, nor from the municipal inspection in municipalities, but not from the Department for the Protection of the Environment, because some have sought sound measurements. I appeal to the interim body of the city of Belgrade, when formed, to take this problem into account and to offer a solution to the Belgrade City Assembly when conditions arise, because no citizen of Belgrade should be discriminated against against the other. Of course, discrimination applies at all on any basis. I am specifically addressing the Belgrade City Assembly, as this issue may be resolved in other cities. It's not here. There's a lot of complaints. Citizens do not have solutions for the problem they are in and believe they should be in an equal position compared to their neighbors living in housing, besides catering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25163	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I question the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Radulovic. Does these thousands of FAP workers represent the first thousand who have lost their jobs in the government's bid that between 50 and 150 thousand people will be out of work? It's easy to say here the number 100,000, 10,000, but it's hard to look into any individual's eyes and think about what kind of pain they're facing, whether they're going to feed the children and whether they're going to provide for themselves and their family members. It's not a figure, it's a family tragedy for each of those individuals who can't do their job to provide existence. I'm asking a question here, and I don't have an answer, what is the government doing to prevent such situations that people can't, based on their work, on their hard work, provide existence for their loved ones? We had a situation, I remind you, at the end of last year when the government adopted a Regulation on the recording of the outstanding obligations of social enterprises under executive rulings for labour claims. When I read it like this, no one knows what it's about, but that's what it's about. About 80,000 people who worked and because the state did not control were not paid contributions or did not join the internship. What do we have now? The deadline was March 31st. The government, however, apparently considers it not March 31st, but April 1st. Maybe it's a joke for the government, but for those workers and for those people who want to join the internship and retire, it's not a joke, it's a tragedy for them. So far, from March 31st to this day, how long it's been, seven months, and we don't have an answer for seven months whether the Ministry of Finance has proposed to the government, what it has proposed, and in what way we're going to put together an internship for those people who have worked for a century and who can't retire, who can't buy drugs, who can't solve their basics. Therefore, I ask the question – is "Autosaur Kragujevac" the next figure that in this bid between 50,000 and 150,000 unemployed will be jobless or are some other companies, in other parts of the state? We didn't get an answer. Those 50,000, 100,000 or 150,000 people whose structure are they? Who are they? Are they educational workers, are they health workers? How will this figure solve the existence or perspective of Serbia, causing tens of thousands of family tragedies, tens of thousands of unhappy children who will have neither for school nor for all three meals? I ask the question, I do not ask, but I ask the Government to provide this answer, not to the MPs, but to those who work their whole lives, and they do not have the security that the state was obliged to provide them with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25165	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice in accordance with Article 287? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first ask a small question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, or to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - what will they do about the outrageous detention by the Croatian border police of the People's MPs of Mr Linta and Čotric, who have travelled to the Second Congress of Serbian Youth and have been detained for more than 50 minutes at the Croatian crossing of Bajakovo? This team before being here was Mr. Josipovic, who here almost in tears swore to good neighbourly relations. My main question concerns the Government, or the Minister of Economy. I'll try to supplement my opposition colleagues with my questions. In short, in the introduction, you all know that in the past 12 years, the so-called Bourage privatisation. I don't call her that for the simple reason that the brothers are fighting over the property, and there was no argument here. I think it's been done in a certain way wild, savage way, and I would dare say the bandit privatisation of social capital. There have been many objections to "Mobtel". Just to remind you that the "Mobtel" was sold, which was a private company that the state owned, nationalised, so it sold for a billion and 830 million. All other social capital, meaning what was supposed to be the subject of privatisation, in 1,500 companies was worth as much as a "Mobtel" was worth. So when opposition colleagues talk about some things and some people, this is what Serbian citizens need to know. That's why I call that privatisation, and I often say that it looked like eating a shell to me, where you suck up what's right, and you bring the shells back to the state, an empty shell, an empty company with pumped capital. It is estimated that this way over 51 billion left Serbia. In particular, I will ask about the privatisations concerning the high officials of this country, i.e. privatisation, I have already asked the Government, and I will ask them again – what about the privatisations "Kongrapa", "Stava PES" Surdulica, three "Centrosrema" in Stari Paz, which have been sold for a tenth of the estimated value in some repeated auctions? Also, I want to ask – what about the privatisations of so-called. Three privatisations per three euros? We all know the buyer was DS Finance Director. We all know the buyer was the best man of the DS at the time. We all know that the buyer at that time was the godfather of the AP Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25167	Please, Mr. Risticevic, in this part of the session don't call other parties, just ask the government a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25168	I have to make an introduction, I'm sorry. I'm just saying that privatisation was over the party lines. So I want to ask a question – what will the new government do about such outrageous privatisations? I will list here three privatisations per three euro of the last three built sugars in the Caves, Bac and Kovacica. In particular, I will remain on Kovacica, given that the state has been sued in Strasbourg for damage to small shareholders, i.e. the assessment of capital. I want to ask – what will the government do to make that and similar privatisations, especially those 24, I don't know if this one belongs to those 24, what will it do, given that in the privatisation of three euros, the factory in which it was remonted five years earlier, which was worth 2.5m euros? In 2012, 2.5m euros were spent for sowing, seed and fertilizer inherited by the new buyer through the delivery of sugar beet. The sugar status in silos was about 13,400 tonnes, and the value of that sugar was eight million. What will the government do about this privatisation, since the dry noodles were over 1,600 tonnes? What will the government do about this privatisation when the molasses state was full of two bags, which is about 10,000 tons somewhere? What will the government do, given that the country's 65 acres of sugar has gone to the most fertile? What will the government do when it's gone to the sugar shop and 10 combined high values, three buildings per 12 apartments? What's he gonna do with six uls, two forks, two million 860,000 euros, eight tractors, full of warehouses, three buses? What will he do when, instead of an investment programme from the White Manastir, he is driven from Croatia rusty... (President: Time. I'm done. What will the government do about these mob privatisations? I understand after the unification of two arms of a party who will be "capo di tuti capi" and who will be "consilers", but I am interested in what the government will do about these privatisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25169	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure in this part of the session. When I open this part, I'll give you my word. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Biljana Vukomanovic, Zoran Bojanic and Natasa Vukkovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, has also called for the sittings to attend: Stefan Nikcevic and Stefan Lazarevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, Mr Ljiljana Stankovic, Dusan Protic, Bojana Todorovic and Nebojsa Vasiljevic, Assistant Minister of Foreign and Interior Trade and Telecommunications and Jasmina Rostic, Head of the Department of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications. We continue to work on the search in detail on the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON TRANSPORT AND THE BUDGET OF THE IMPLEMENTATION Prior to that, Mr Milivojevic appeared after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25170	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure concerning the dignity of the National Assembly, and above all...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25171	Mr. Milivoevich, I ask you to read the Rules of Procedure more carefully. Article 104 regulates not the dignity of the National Assembly, but the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25172	Article 107. In the context of the parliamentary issue, it is not appropriate to insult the dignity of the National Assembly and, in particular, not to present false facts and information about the president of the DS and the first democratically elected prime minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic. It's more about people who throw stones at a dead man who can't defend himself than the DS. It is legitimately the right of every MP to find a way to ask a parliamentary question and whether it will be a mirror of his personality, we do not enter it. But as members of the DS, we'll never put our heads in the sand before those who crawl through the dust grab the biggest rock to throw it in the face of a dead man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25173	Thank you. You saw that I warned the previous speaker the moment he mentioned DS. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25174	I'm advertising Article 103 and Article 104. It is the right of MPs to advertise in Article 103 the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that is not disputed either for the previous colleague or for me. In Article 104, you have the discretionary right to give me a replica or not. I can agree with that. It's easy to give to the opposition. I mean, if any of what I said in the main words, that three sugars have gone three euros each in a way that...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25175	Mr. Risticevic, you've just advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the sense that no replica is allowed. Please don't replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25176	I'm advertising an injury to what it's made of. I'm advocating the Parliament's dignity. So, if I hurt my dignity and presented the incorrect data, I will resign, but if I have provided the correct information, that three sugarcanes have left by three euros, let a colleague resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25177	Thank you. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Olgica Batić, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalić, Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Veličković and Ljubica Milosevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25178	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law and I have submitted that because I have the need to make certain definitions in this law and some of the terms used here clear and define extremely well-meaning and completely accurate. One of the biggest problems with our laws is that our laws are inaccurately defined and unarranged. I believe that a precise definition in all laws is a prerequisite for their subsequent application and a prerequisite to avoid that famous interpretation of the law. In that direction, I have submitted this amendment. In Article 3 paragraph 1(2), after the word “intermediate person”, I added the words “in traffic and the lease of immovable property. ” Therefore, the transport intermediary and the lease of immovableity, and the rest of the text remained the same in the same article and item 3) after the word ‘registration register’, I added, ‘in traffic and the lease of immovable property’. I simply needed to define something that was meant to be, but in interpreting the latter, nothing is understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25179	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25180	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, Article 4 refers to conditions for the implementation of the intervention. The title is ‘Enterment in the Register of Intermediators’. Paragraph 2 reads: “The applicant may begin the intervention on the date of the entry into the Register of Intermediators, which is considered to be on the date of entry into that register. ” We feel that it is much better to change this and to say this: “The applicant can begin the intervention on the day of the admission of the registration solution to the Register. ” It is understood that a man or a legal person who receives that solution can be called upon, and in the event that only this solution is announced, then a man has no idea that it is regulated at that time. I think this amendment of ours is of quality that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25181	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25182	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the fact that this proposal of the Law on Intermediation and Transport and the lease of immovable property refers to two key things. One refers to the establishment of a register of intermediaries, and the other refers to a professional examination, i.e. the definition of the professional arrangement required for persons to work in those intervention agencies. So other than these key things that I listed here in the bill, everything else can be found in existing regulations. Indeed, there was no need for a special law to be proposed which would apply to regulation of traffic interventions and the lease of immovable property. And these key things are problematic for several reasons, especially this Article 5. The bill is problematic because it somehow connects that expertise to the social category. Yes, it is necessary to pass the expert exam, but the expert exam is not enough if you really want to get much more quality results in this intervention than we have so far, and you yourself have stated in the light of the law what great value of the business here is in the traffic of immovableity and how large is the commission expected, i.e. that is, at an annual level of about three billion dinars in terms of the commission of intermediaries. You're saying something about a very large amount of tax evasion being lost precisely because we don't have a clear relationship with this legal business. You're talking about the need to introduce legal certainty and that it takes all that work to get into legal flows and I would agree with you, but again to go back to this Article 5. If you predict the fourth degree of professional training and passing an expert exam for a single employee at the agency, and even if he is not employed, but that he has a certain contract to work with the agency itself, I think it is insufficient. It is insufficient for this reason because you already define in article 16 the obligations of that intermediary, i.e. the Agency for Intermediation, which are very serious obligations relating precisely to the expertise required to be promoted in particular by the Agency. Transport of immovable property involves the serious existential interests of all those who address agencies to help them find the immovable property to buy them, or who they engage to sell them. So it's very important that you have at least one person at the agency, one employee or one consultant who will have a law degree. It is not enough to pass a professional exam and it is not enough for that employee to get acquainted with some basic legal categories and legal institutes with one of the short courses. How will this agency employee be able to guarantee to the person who hired him in this intervention that these immovableities that are listed in public books are completely secure and that he can access that contract? How will he be able to eliminate any risk unless he understands it? What does it mean to register an immovableity that was illegally built, and here we have a law that allows it? What does that mean if there's a mortgage, a pledge right to that property? What are the consequences of the buyer if he buys that kind of immovableity? You are here at three points, which are the risks to which particular attention should be paid to the intermediary who brought the buyer in to conclude the contract, which are: possible risks related to the entry of immovable property items into the Immobility Register, which is exactly what I was talking about, enrolling on the right, or burden on the immovableity in question, and I was just telling you about it. There is a right to prevent purchases and restrictions in legal traffic in accordance with specific regulations. For all of this, you need some insight. So if you've met all of these legal institutes in a shorter course, you've passed a professional exam, and we don't even know what the criteria are, what kind of expert exam is it going to be? We don't have any sublegal acts that we can look into, so let's say, okay, that might fit all those requirements that you've stated here in the law. Therefore, there is no legal certainty if you exclude that element relating to expertise, to professionally done work. Legal certainty implies that, to the greatest extent possible, those risks are removed in the domain of rights that may be followed by certain legal work. Unfortunately, this law does not really allow the establishment of this kind of legal certainty. We therefore find it very important that at least one person, whether an employee of that agency or someone who will carry out certain consulting tasks for that agency, have completed a law school in addition to that expert examination that is necessary. Law school lasts four years. That expert exam is just a professional exam and nothing else. No matter how important it is for as many people to be employed, among other things, and to encourage people, to turn as entrepreneurs to the opening of these agencies for intermediation, no matter how many do not have completed law schools, but we must not allow such a serious problem to be so unprotected, without the proper expertise that is necessary in this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25183	Mr Bozidar Djelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25184	Madam President, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the DS does not support this amendment for the reason it has already been adopted in a similar form in Slovenia and has produced poor results. At this point, the last thing the dead market needs is an additional cost. The truth is, it's really important. There's a lot of lawyers in this assembly and a lot of lawyers and there's nothing to argue about. But this amendment is a feature of this law, which is a fairy tale. We're talking about a real estate market that doesn't exist, which, according to some estimates, fell between 40% and 80%. The truth is that when big transactions happen, the parties hire lawyers' offices, too, because it's a very big deal. We can say that technically it's even more important that there are people who know the building, etc. We think the expert exam is a good step in the right direction that if this amendment is adopted, which we do not support, would lead to an increase in costs. Basically, people would hire other people's biographies or, as is done for the last 15, 16 months to fill a place in the state administration, buy diplomas, so you'll make as many fake diplomas as you want, fake colleges. That'll be done in no time. We've got people on top of state functions who've done the same thing. But, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the real question for you is, what are you going to do if there is anything at all? If it's supposed to be transmitted, it's that there's some kind of matter. Are you Mr. Vice President's official instructions to the Ministry of Finance for next year? After a catastrophic rebalancing where you missed the figures by a billion euros and then abolished the last dinar for any construction, there is no single dinar in the official direction of the finance ministry. Talk to any serious man who deals with the building, from the great debt the firm expects mass layoffs to take place. There are 120,000 people you're going to have to bring in and add to your 130,000 you've already announced. Mr. Ljajic, is it ever more clear to you that in this right-wing government whose only recipe is to defuse the poor and end every investment, there is no room for you. On our list you provided nine mandates that depend on this majority. Maybe it's time that instead of suggesting...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25185	Mr. Djelic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to inform you that you are back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25186	I'm done. Instead of proposing absurd laws that regulate nonexistent matter, to deal with matter, and to finally start dealing with urgent matters in this home. In Priboj, FAP is just the first example of what our country expects. We invite you, Mr. Vice President, and all the parliamentary groups, to talk about serious matters in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25187	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25188	I don't think this is an existing topic, even in the debate in principle we all agreed that this is an area that has not been legally regulated so far. This is an attempt to do it. If we did it the best way, practice will show. I would refer only to the proposal of this amendment. That was our dilemma, too. There are two reasons why we cannot accept the amendment. First, we're already raising standards, because so far the agencies didn't have to have even any employee who has passed a professional exam and this is one step higher. I don't know if it'll be enough. We think he will at this point, but in the perspective, maybe this will be one topic that needs to be discussed as well. Another reason why we cannot accept the amendment is what Mr Djelic said, which would significantly burden the existing agencies. Today we have over 300 business entities dealing with real estate traffic, about 800 entrepreneurs involved in this business. Believe me, we've spoken to a large number of them, in 90% of these cases, people with the Soviet Union deal. It would be difficult now to put some legal solution to pressure them to have employees of law enforcement instead of people with the Soviet Union. That would be a huge burden for existing agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25189	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for mentioning the people involved in this activity. It's a good thing it's not being accepted. I know you're gonna interrupt me soon, but I think it's important that we break up with fairy tales. For the past 10 days, a used aircraft has been taken on lease, on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is news, but the news is that the only answer to those who defend their own children on the track today is a proposal from the SNS parliamentary group for the next session, which is, read, that the sitting on the track is a criminal offense. It is a message from this SNS parliamentary group that those who defend their existence are criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25191	Mr. Djelic, your replica really has nothing to do with the presentation of Minister Ljajic. ( Bozidar Djelic, from the post: It is a message to this government. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25192	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm glad you had a certain dilemma about it. I'm glad you realized how important it is to bring order into this area and how important it is to favor this element of expertise. I understand we have a very big unemployment problem today. I understand how these middle-aged agencies have worked so far. This does not give us the right not to reach that level of quality of the intervention agencies that we would have if we introduced that obligation, the legal profession, that at least one person has a law school, which will be engaged outside of working relationships. It was not an additional burden for the agencies, and it would be one additional security for those who would hire an intermediate agency. I don't think we can to that end that profession and expertise to leave out when we talk about how to bring things into legal flows and how to ensure legal certainty. Mr. Minister, one more thing. In this law, you are a little confused when you allow this way to dispel the ESS profession at the agency, and you require that this agency really has some knowledge that can't be acquired without a law school, even if an employee has passed that expert exam. Here you need to solve the question of what you want, whether to introduce security or leave things in the state in which you found them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25193	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25194	I am reporting under this amendment, especially because I have proposed a similar amendment but not to this member, but to Article 16, which regulates the Agency's obligations, or intermediaries, where we say that the intermediary is obliged to engage, if necessary, the professional person of the legal profession in matters under his jurisdiction. This law introduces a dose of legal certainty for citizens who are subject to trade in immovable property and leases, and in this way we will create a picture or a vision for citizens that the jobs they enter into with the Agency are completely legal. That legal certainty can't guarantee them a person with four classes of high school or a high school who doesn't have the knowledge of legal profession. By amendment to another member of the law, we have created the possibility to engage a person who has certain legal expertise, if necessary, because we consider it for the sake of legal certainty created by citizens of this law, we need to ensure that that legal certainty exists, that when citizens come to the Agency with intermediaries they need to know that this legal work will be valid. Of the very papers that this apartment owns, building permits, the conditions that it is the real owner of things, that there are no more owners, that it is completely legally clean work, valid and safestan can be guaranteed if there is a face of legal profession. Who's going to write real estate contracts? We have a fact that it is the work of notaries who have not yet lived, nor will they live for the next few years in Serbia. The agencies are gonna make contracts. We've got lawyers who have a part of the job, and the agencies will take over. We come to one situation that a small part of the area, which is very important, will not be regulated by this law. We believe that this law is a fundamental step in relation to the situation we now have and that it will qualitatively enable citizens to meet their needs, but it should leave the possibility that agencies should, when necessary, engage a legal person and thereby complete a legal certainty that we will offer to the citizens in this way. So I disagree with Mr. Djelic that this is a new cost. It is a new cost, but that cost will certainly be paid to customers, so at least for that money, which the buyer or seller of the apartment, depending on how it is regulated, will receive full legal protection when a contract is concluded through the broker.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25195	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25196	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have learned from the experience of some European countries that we have to strive to create an orderly system that knows exactly who is responsible for what and if we want to transfer to the agencies the responsibility for nelados, for the disorder of the state that has been in the area so far, then this law in that sense, if this amendment is accepted, we call it somehow different. Then it would be a law on guaranteeing the correctness of real estate traffic. We're not talking about this today. Today we are talking about another law, and in this sense I fully agree with the government's position, and I don't think this amendment should be accepted. We need to create a real framework for those people who deal with real estate mediation. However, European practice, if we are talking about going to Europe, is not that you must have a graduate lawyer in the area in most European countries. So, we have to break up with one practice, and that practice is that in one particular law we put everything and everything, no matter what we have a clear concept of our legal system, what it is that we want and what we want our legal system to look at, because if we define here the things that the notaries are supposed to do, that lawyers are supposed to do, that some other agencies are supposed to do, then we really don't need those. I think a colleague was on that trail and was when he was talking, in that part I agree with you, that we need to create conditions to get the notaries working as soon as possible. We need to create the responsibility of the courts. We have to create even the responsibility of lawyers, that is, to fight against the spectrum of different elements of crime, whether it's the police, whether it's lawyers, whether it's the courts, etc., who created that legal uncertainty. Surely the lawyers here in these agencies can't be a key factor in creating legal certainty. It is the state and state institutions that must guarantee legal certainty, not the economy and entities whose founders are privates involved. They have to guarantee the legal correctness of their work, their actions, and we're not talking about drugs or special purpose products here right now, so we have to go to that kind of measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25197	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25198	Mr. MP, you should have only read the first member of this law, which says – this law regulates the conditions and way of carrying out traffic interventions and the lease of immovable property, as well as the supervision of the application of this law. So this law regulates that area, not some other law. You're wrong when you say we don't need this law to take care of all the areas. No, we're setting up this area and the state is here to create conditions and to arrange that area. This is how we do it. We believe that this area must have legal certainty until the end, because this law guarantees exactly that, the conditions and way of carrying out traffic interventions and the lease of immovable property. We guarantee citizens through this law and create conditions that through the traffic of immovable property they buy what is legally clean, which there is no burden that will appear later and that it will all be in accordance with this law and the Law on Bond Relations. This law complements the relations that arise in bond relations, i.e. by purchase contracts. Here we are talking about a law that needs to be rounded up by an area that has not been regulated so far but has been directly applied by the Law on Liabilities, Sales Contracts and Intermediation that has not been regulated by this law. We therefore believe that it is good to mention in this law that, if necessary, a legal person, a professional person – a lawyer for certain matters in order to protect the legal certainty of citizens, and that is probably what should be the interest of all of us when this law is passed. That's why I believe that one species, and that to you ministers, the hiring of lawyers must exist in this law, is it necessary, that he is not constantly employed to avoid additional burden on the agencies, the Agency must hire someone to guarantee full legal certainty to the person who...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25199	Time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25200	I've only tried to separate two things, which is a process of intervening and guaranteeing full legal certainty. Guaranteeing full legal certainty must be a matter of state, it must be a matter of creating a state that works and must be a matter of functioning in a legislative sense, and also in terms of courts that work to ensure that we can have full legal certainty. However, when we talk about intervention issues, only the act of intervention is guaranteed. In that sense, I understand this law. I'm not talking about taking over the full process of guaranteeing legal certainty now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25201	The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25202	The Honorable President, Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I also spoke in my discussion about the need for agencies to hire a lawyer or a lawyer's office, and in one part I have to support this amendment, for the reason that passing an expert exam is a good step, but it is not a sufficient step, because passing an expert exam cannot provide all the necessary knowledge to a person who has graduated from high school, has a medium professional standing, compared to someone who has graduated from law school. The question arises – what is the purpose of this law? Should we not burden ourselves with the extra costs of the agency or increase the security of the users of brokering services? We could have found some transitional solution, not to burden the agencies completely, to force them by law to hire someone who has a law degree, but we could have introduced a provision into the law that intermediation agencies have an obligation to hire a lawyer or someone who is more professional than a middle-aged person who passed a professional exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25203	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25204	If he's accepted, I'll just thank you. I think we've been on the right track and we need to get this straight. When you've already given the possibility that anyone who wants to have access to data from the broker's register, it's perfectly clear that these data is available to people for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25205	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25206	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the LDP has submitted several amendments to this bill. This amendment to Article 7. The government has accepted and this time I want to thank you, Minister, for accepting this amendment. This amendment also provides legal certainty and the public in the work, as the amendment said the ministry would publish a registry of intermediaries on its website. Why do I say you provide the public with work? Because all citizens and those who want to rent some real estate or put it on the market or buy some real estate, will have the opportunity to see who the registered intermediaries are on the site of the ministry. So far, it has been a practice in Serbia that we have had phantom mediators who have sold certain apartments or certain facilities several times, so many citizens have been mistaken when buying or buying certain immovable property. I therefore believe that this amendment also gives legal certainty to all future clients of those agencies that will deal with indirect activity, because all citizens will be able to verify in advance whether such an agency is registered or not in the register of intermediaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25207	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25208	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to a copy of the Intermediate Register. In fact, the law says that at the request of an interested person, the ministry issues a copy of the intermediary register within seven days of the date of receipt of the request. We think the administration needs to be more efficient and we offered that deadline to be much shorter, to be three days. Of course, we had in mind how many things must have a face in the ministry that this job has to do, but we think that really, since we're already covering behind various fast-track offices and that we're going to be working effectively and responsibly, then a three-day deadline is quite enough and I think that our amendment should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25209	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25210	Dear Madam Chairman, we are constantly listening to the government swear to the efficiency of work, the speed of change, and on the other hand we bear witness that Serbia is falling forward. So I think it is very important that all prescribed deadlines, if we really want effective Serbia, if we really want the rapid progress of our society, should not be shown at party meetings. This should be shown through examples, through legislative activity, through everyday life, and through the way government is exercised. I therefore consider it absolutely rational, cost-effective and meaningful to support the amendment of our colleagues from the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25211	Thank you. Minister Ljajic, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25212	I think we can accept this amendment and, in the voting day, I believe, we will get support for the amendment that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25213	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Donka Banović and Jovan Palalic. MP dean mihajlov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25214	We have submitted an amendment to Article 10 relating to adding a new point – erasure from the intermediary register. We felt that certain persons could happen to repeat in a certain period of time the violations that could lead to certain consequences and we also felt that if a person repeatedly repeated a certain offence over a certain period of time, that he should be deleted, in addition to the other two conditions for eradicating from the intermediary register, that the person would be deleted too. So, if a person commits multiple misdemeanors over three years to the damages of citizens and entities who have hired an intermediary for a particular legal transaction to purchase or rent a business or residential space, it should be deleted. This means that the expert exam he passed is not enough, nor anything else, to understand how it should be done. In terms of the legal protection of the citizens who are going to hire the agencies, we must do so, because we cannot allow those who violate this law to be on the market to do so, and therefore their responsibility is not sanctioned, especially given that the limits of the infringement are limited by the law on infringements, as one general framework for the level of punishment, and that the damage that can result from their violation is far greater and the mistakes that can arise, for those who buy some apartments or sell some properties, are far greater than what will be responsible for that person. So for a legal person, 500,000 dinars are a violation, for a natural person, the responsible person in the legal face is 125,000 dinars, I mean the general limit for criminal liability, and the responsibility and damage that arises for a person because of the violations they have committed in that agency are much greater. It is measured by thousands of euros, tens of thousands of euros, and therefore we believe that a repeat of the infringement within a specified three-year period must be sanctioned by deleting it from the register. Besides, in the Traffic Safety Act, you have points that are deleted after two years of performance, from taking those points, and citizens are obliged to follow the rules, have those points, otherwise they will lose their license. Here, if someone breaks this law and creates a violation, they need to create conditions that, within three years, if they repeat the violations, they will simply be deleted from the register, that we do not get into a situation where no one is responding, that they correspond to up to 125,000, the extent of the limit for the offence, and that the damage to those who have suffered the damage is much greater. You will say – we have insurance, agencies have insurance, but sometimes that insurance rate can't cover the damage that can happen to a person. That is why legal affairs, out of mediation, should be expelled from those who are prone to commit violations and in this additional way try to make order in this area, so that we are not in a situation that, as in some other things that are happening in Serbia, we have a case with cigarettes, so that Macedonia will not react. It's not regulated by law. Our relationship with Macedonia for the second time in six months does not allow the import of our wheat is not regulated by law and that is why the government allows Macedonia to humiliate and not react to that humiliation, but late after three months. If we create the conditions that the government is bound, or that the state authority is obliged to react if someone is making a breach, it is something that can contribute to a more responsible and better legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25215	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25216	We agree that those who violate the provisions of this law should be sanctioned, we just think that it is more punishment for intermediaries to register, in addition to the name and name of the agency involved, the safeguard measure of the ban on mediation, than to delete it from that register and then seek a shortcut and another bypass route to register a new agency so that it can re-registrate. We believe that it will affect them more and that it will be more punishment than to wipe him out of the broker's register.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25217	Thank you. Replica, Dejan Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25218	We don't have a problem with that, with the proposal of your measure. We believe that one doesn't exclude the other and that the measure that you mentioned and this measure should be an integral part of this law. Because at the stage when we were in a completely unregulated area, a hiducia, where the same apartment was sold five times, and the same agency was doing it, simply, we think that we should provide as much protection to those agencies that are honest and responsible and in accordance with the law and so far have done their job, and a little more protection to those who are clients of that agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25219	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25220	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment is actually about that amendment to Article 5, and it's about the legal profession again. I would just remind you of the fact that this law should have two objectives – one to protect the interests of the state and the other to protect the interests of individuals and citizens. To what extent will these interests be protected, above all by a state that would want this law to cancel the gray market for real estate, and to what extent will it protect citizens' interests that they will not fear buying a property with an invisible burden or buying a property that has already been sold three or four times? We don't live on Mars, we live in Serbia, and we know about what a chaotic situation is on the immovable market, we know how unprotected citizens really are when they appear as sellers or as buyers, it's absolutely irrelevant. I would just remind you that when it comes to real estate traffic, that intermediary has to be referred to the provisions of the Mortgage Act, the Law on Liabilities, the Law on Real Estate and some other laws that I can't even remember to list right now. Then the question arises – what is the quality of the service that the intermediary will provide with a fourth degree of expertise, even if with a professional exam passed, what is the European standard and how will you in this way strengthen some economic competition, I really do not see in the solutions set out in this bill. However, I see in advance that there will be problems because, in fact, these will remain existing. Namely, the expert exam is still a "tabula rasa", we do not know what it will actually contain and a commission will be formed again and we will only generate administration again. So that is the problem if we are in favour of some European standards. I'd like to ask you one more time to think this through. Because if you allow even in article 5 that the professional exam does not have to have each of the employees, the owner of the agency does not have to have one, but also a person who is not in a permanent working relationship, then why does not the professional exam also tie to a high professional training, or completed law school? So, you've got a law degree, you've got a professional exam, you'll probably pass it a lot easier, so we can consult, we can work with you, and it doesn't carry any special costs to function that agency. It's just that we're looking at what's really a common interest in both states and individuals and what's the situation in the real estate in Serbia right now, and the situation is really chaotic. Unfortunately, we do not have clear statistical data and concrete indicators as to what the consequences of this chaotic situation are for the lives of the citizens and for the collection of taxes at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25221	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic jointly submitted to the 15th amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25222	In order to protect the agency's own broker, we've had a case so far, I've talked to several agencies, with the owners of several agencies and with lawyers involved in the real estate traffic, to get a person to come to the agency, the agency gives him an offer of apartments, take him on a first tour, and then that person picks up contacts with the owners of those apartments where he was run by the agency, and independent of the agency closes the contract, and the agency remains damaged for commission. It's one situation that we've known so far. In this way, the agency was prevented from receiving a certain fee for its work. You speak here – mediation is done on the basis of etc. And you're talking about the employer's obligations to take him to a particular facility, if the agency takes him to that facility, the agency must have its commission. In order to prevent the rejection of the provisions of this law, we have made it considered to be a first - degree mate and blood relative to the employer within the meaning of this law. This law doesn't regulate... You're talking about the employer. The husband can go and ask the agency, the middleman, to give him a list of certain immovableities, so he can take it. But if his wife closes the deal, she won't be obliged under this law to pay the agency, to pay the intermediary a certain commission for that purchasing activity. This law only introduces that obligation to consider both a mate and a first - degree blood relative to the employer within the meaning of this law. So we're talking about a father, a mother, or a child, who, of course, is 18 and has a business ability. It is only the purpose of our amendment, to protect the agency from jesting out the provisions of this law and against the self-will of customers and immobilisers to avoid paying the commission. Because if our goal is to revive the agencies and to regulate this area, then it must be possible for them to be protected from disposing of the provisions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25223	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Deyan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25224	We've already talked about this in Mrs Popovic's amendment. It refers to the fact that the intermediary is obliged, where appropriate, to engage the person of the legal profession in matters of jurisdiction of a person who has certain legal competences. It's something we think is necessary. For those who did not understand correctly, this law applies and creates conditions, as is the first member of the law – the conditions and the way in which traffic interventions are performed and the lease of immovable property, as well as supervision, are regulated. Of course, this law cannot regulate everything that follows a process of immovableity, from the obligation of the court and everything else, but it imposes on the intermediary who offers a certain apartment person who comes in and pays a fee or pays a fee to a particular agency, imposes on that agency, imposes on that intermediary the obligation that when you come to the agency to buy an apartment, to tell you this – this apartment is legally clean, there is no burden, it was not in legal traffic before, a valid building permit, it is registered. So he's bound to give the file on that apartment to every person who comes here. He won't be able to do some things that require legal knowledge to give that opinion and make a file like that. In particular, considering that after that, certain legal actions are needed to complete the whole business. We therefore believe that, if necessary, the agency should be able to engage a person with legal knowledge, legal professions, in order to allow for more quality work in accordance, not only with this law, but with other laws. Because it's the person who takes the expert exam and owns the agency or is employed by the agency, it doesn't mean that there's knowledge from the Law on Liabilities, from the way books are kept in court, records and everything else. It takes someone with wider knowledge to complete this process and to provide a complete legal protection for all the entities in this business.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25225	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25226	We can't support it, by the same logic we just expressed this amendment, for the reason that intermediaries are called here to do professionally their own work. Of course, if there is a need for legal interpretation, a lawyer should be hired, but there are many other problems. If there is any doubt about the quality of the building, if there is any other doubt in any other part of the process, simply, the mediator must do what his profession requires. But, Mr. Vice President, I have to ask you politely for the second time, presenting this law and today at the amendment debate, you haven't told us a word about the context. Would you please our lack of curiosity, but the need to know what is the state of the fixed market? How many agencies have been closed in the past year? How many apartments, houses, other properties, sold, bought? Is it true what professionals in this profession say that traffic fell between 4% and 80% this year, compared to the previous one in terms of location and quality of real estate? Can you at least tell us, Mr. Vice President, what are you planning to do to change the situation now? How much you're going to fight for the budget for construction, since real estate, we know that there is a secondary sale and purchase. We want you to tell us a few things about real life. Mr. Djelic, this is no time for parliamentary questions, please stick to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25227	Mr. Djelic, you're out of the subject again. Mr. Djelic, this is no time for parliamentary questions, please stick to the amendment. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25228	Mr. Minister, about this amendment, he's about Mrs. Judith Popovic's amendments, the way we think is next. So far in Serbia, not only because of its intricacies, we think because the state has failed around 25,000 customers, even one New Sad salesman sold one apartment 40 times, it's probably a Serbian record. But what was that all about? You, in the light of this law, have said, among other things, that it is because of the unquality services of intermediaries. That's right. Now it is precisely about the quality of services of intermediaries and they really need to have, let us think of a wider knowledge, because often the pre-contracts, contracts, guarantees, there are these trades of immobilities, compensations, everything, and it seems to us that someone who passes the expert exam will not be able to meet all the challenges that will impose practice. What I was talking about is a government appointment, and I think I need it with this law, which is certainly a step forward in relation to the current situation, to think about licensing investors and putting bank guarantees in order to close the circle to prevent the inefficient functioning of the state, because of the inserious organisation of the state, it's all paid by an ordinary citizen like I say it was, so far, about 25,000. Because it's not just enough insurance for the middleman, they're certainly not going to be responsible for all the damage. Let's say, if they unprofessionally do their job, if consciously one apartment sells multiple times, etc. I don't think that insurance will cover all the damage that citizens suffer from this kind of intermediary behavior. That's why I think closing this circle of security by the state is going to be done in the right way, by first licensing investors and performers and laying down bank guarantees. Then, with the efficient and timely work of the MUP in the event of fraud, with the bank guarantees of investors, with the insurance of intermediaries, we, as a state, provide citizens with complete one legal certainty. I say for that reason, and because of the situation in the immovableity market, our thinking still goes in the direction that intermediaries should have more expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25229	Dean Michaels, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25230	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of Article 104 because you have not given me the right to a replica, although I believe I was right to do so since I do not think Mr Djelic understood what I wanted to say to the end. I wasn't talking here about the constant engagement of a person whose engagement and the cost of his employment at the broker agency would burden the work of it, but I was talking about hiring a person if necessary. So, when there's a need to work that security right now. We can talk here not only about the need for a legal person, so Mr. Djelic has raised the question of the need to engage the face of the construction profession or some others who would talk about the quality of the construction facility that is the subject of a particular transaction. That's why I think I had the right to reply to explain to those who didn't understand that this wouldn't have burdened the agency alone, but it would have helped to get the job done better. Of course, one who invests 100,000 or fifty, sixty, seventy-seven thousand euros to buy a certain immovableity will not think for sure that fifty euros how much he will pay for some legal advice to a lawyer so that everything is perfectly, legally clean because some large legal cost relative to the price he pays for that immovableity. It is therefore necessary to create an opportunity to engage such a person if necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25231	Mr. Mihajlov, you have now been legally assigned to Article 104 through Article 103. So if I was wrong, I was right. Bozidar Djelic, a replica of Mr. Mihajlov's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25232	I think this exposure actually proved why this amendment is unnecessary. Right at the very end of the exhibition you yourself said that the party in the process would do so. There's a big difference between the fact that when someone buys or sells they're going to seek protection of their own interests in various ways. But this amendment is, in fact, in some milder version, asking the middleman himself to do so. The problem is that this is then brought as some form of legal obligation and we can expect litigation from the party in the process unless the intermediary does what the party itself needs to do to protect its proceedings. So you don't have to put more pressure on it than you need a certain profession. But for the third time, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to give us a little context for this law. It's not just about parliamentary issues, Madam Chairman, we're talking about laws, not to discuss some fairy tale and empty stuff, we're talking about a key profession, we're talking about a very key sector. We want as MPs to give us the Vice-President of the Government a context in which this law is to be implemented. I don't think we're getting out of this at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25233	Thank you. The word is Mr. Michael's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25234	Mr. Djelic, I understand that you used this replica to say what you want, not on the subject of this law. I'd just take a chance on what you said and what you misunderstood or misread. Our goal is that when a buyer comes to the middleman or agency, he doesn't need to take a lawyer with him. What does the agency and the middleman want if he's gonna run a lawyer with his hand, pay that lawyer one or two percent as much as he's on the bar fee to close the deal, pay it, pay the fee to the agency, then that apartment's gonna cost him a hell of a lot of money. The aim of this law, as I understand it, and there are representatives of the ministry and Minister Ljajic himself, to round up one area and that when the buyer comes to the agency, he pays the agency's expenses that he assumes there are no other costs than the fee he will pay to the agency and that he has all his obligations, and not that he is behind him to drag into one hand a lawyer, to the other hand a construction engineer, perhaps some hydraulic who will deal with the water supply or whatever, and then with the whole world he comes to the agency, what will the agency do to us and what we do here. So my understanding of this law is that when the customer comes to the agency, knocks on the door, says – good afternoon, I want to buy an apartment here and there, and the agency gives him valid data, legally valid and clean to say – that's it. He says – I agree to that price, or to lower the price, and to have the agency conclude the contract, write and to make everyone happy and satisfied, to keep everything in line with the law and then to have no business at all, but to have the end of a sale relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25235	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Velickovic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 20th amendment. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25236	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the proposed amendment we wanted to supplement the existing provisions of the law, where the practice now present would be disabled to commit, in addition to the agreement, to the contracting officers to pay the intermediary an intermediate commission, even in cases where they themselves, without the provision of services by the mediators, conclude a transport contract. This would avoid the possibility of not paying the agreed amount to the intermediary in those situations. We think that this amendment to the law would only disable one such thing and significantly correct the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25237	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25238	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were just saying how illegal it is to identify expertise with burden, but this amendment applies to ethics. It is therefore that an intermediary who, contrary to the contract or contrary to the interests of his or her employer, works for the other party should lose the right to an indirect fee and to compensation for costs. We really don't understand why you rejected this amendment. He will not add to the law, but he will simplify the situation of a life that can arise in any mediation. So, if the client believes that the intermediary was doing something to his harm, why should he pay the intermediary the fee that was agreed or which was asked of him. It's the courts that will decide what kind of work the mediators were and definitely the court will give the last word. But, among other things, this provision should be put into the law to make things clear, that there should be one order, that there should be respect for the law, legal certainty, and there should be some kind of ethics that will obligate both sides and intermediaries. So I really expected you to adopt this amendment. You have your own concept of how this law should look and how to apply it. I expect that we will soon have amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25239	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25240	We felt that accepting the amendment would open up the possibility of abuse, because clients could always be called by an intermediary working against him or for the other side or to avoid, paying compensation. The only reason we turned down this amendment is that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25241	The amendment, which added the title and the new article 26, was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25242	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have also tried this amendment to clarify things in this bill and to determine what obligations they are, specifically, both the mediator and the employer. And among other things, we predicted, that if it's about the middleman working for both sides, that in that case he has the right to compensation, but that fee should fall on both sides, so he just doesn't double. It's one legal job, one legal broker, two parties, working in the interest of both parties, and most normally it would be to cut those costs, intermediations in that sense, which would actually be the fee to be shared between the employer and one and the other. We felt that this was a good solution, which is directly based on the laws on bond relations. We believe that this law has largely come from the Law on Liabilities and in Article 2 you are directly calling on, that all that is not regulated by this law should be regulated by this very law. So, if you've already defined yourself as having one specific law of traffic and the lease of immovableity, it would be good if you put some more concrete institutes into the law, among other things, and this amendment has been directed to make things concrete, because only in that case will you have no doubts, if you have a clear law with concrete provisions and concrete obligations of all parties in the future legal work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25243	The 32nd Amendment with corrections was brought together by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Donka Banovic and Jovan Palalic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25244	This amendment, we have spoken something under this amendment in Article 10 relating to – conditions for deleting from the register. With this amendment, I predict that "exceptionally, in the event of a recurrence of the offence within three years, he may impose a sentence of erasure from the register." This is why it is good to stand next to what is already provided for in Article 32. So you're saying -- by fine of double to five times the amount, the usual interim fee, you're going to be fined for a violation of a legal person, an entrepreneur and a natural person, or a responsible person in a legal person, if you are to intervene against the prohibitions laid down in Article 12 of Article 1 of this law. We are also saying that, with the criminal penalty of Article 1, a legal person, an entrepreneur or a natural person, the prohibition of traffic intervention can be imposed. Here we are talking about the extent of the ban that will be imposed on a particular natural person, who works at that agency, but this agency, no one is preventing any other person who works in that agency from continuing to commit an offence. That is why we believe that employees of one agency commit multiple violations within three years, that the agency should be deleted from the register, not only the employees of the agency. We'll get into a situation where the owner of the agency just changes the person who commits the offenses, and the agency continues to function. That's why we think it should be a condition to delete from the register of a particular agency and that's enough reason. I don't know why he's running away from it. Second, fines of double to five times the usual value. Take an apartment of 50,000 euros, a 2 per cent or 3 per cent fee, and that is 1,500 euros, which is already more than the maximum penalty for a natural person, which is 125 000 dinars, means 1000 euros. This provision is completely inapplicable. How can you place two to five fees, a fee for the usual interim fees or commissions, as a measure, when the maximum penalty for a natural person is 150,000 dinars. So, it's less than one commission and whether it's a general maximum for punishing a natural person, according to the Law of Infractions to which you call, and the general maximum for legal persons is 500,000 dinars. So, it's less than one commission, because it's a general maximum for punishing a natural person under the Law of Infractions, which you're calling on, and the general maximum for legal persons is 500,000 dinars, which means that in this part it's inconclusive and that it pays off to create violations for a legal person, because he's going to change the person he has and that license, hire one, commits a violation, doesn't matter, he's got no connection, he's got to go down there, someone else comes in, and that's actually, that intermediary, that agency, that's there, he's changing the authorised person and it's working so that someone can cheat now, someone out there, some physical person is going to fit, but in a situation we have to put that person, the legal person, that owner, that person, who's being deleted from the register. Plus, it means all these measures, to predict that one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25245	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 34th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25246	Thank you. Dear Minister, we have proposed, by this amendment, that the time given in the draft law on the adoption of sublegal acts of six months be reduced to 30 days. We really believe that it is unacceptable that sublegal acts, necessary for the application of such an important law, are passed only after six months. If this law aims to curb the grey transport economy and lease immovableity and bring order into the area, then it is really unacceptable to wait six months for the ministry to adopt a sublegal act. You, Minister, here in the light of this law, I will read, say – although there are no relevant statistics on this important sector of the economy, estimates of the immobility class association say that the total annual turnover in the real estate market in the Republic of Serbia is worth about three billion euros, one billion euros in traffic being made through the mediation of about 500 registered intermediaries who are earning about 3.3 billion dinars of the indirect commission. What does that mean? That currently in Serbia, we have a billion euros in traffic in legal flows and two billion in the gray market. On the other hand, you say it thus loses between 600 million and two billion dinars of revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since the next member is scheduled for this law to be applied only for a year and a half, because only in a year and a half, the register will be established and the possibility of the agencies registering under this law, for us in LDP is indeed a little strange, that for a year and a half, since we have chaos in Serbia related to the lease and traffic of immovableity, we are waiting for the application of this law. This country loses almost 30m euros in those years and a half. In such a way, this government is saying that we do not have enough money in the Republic budget, and the fact is that we do not have it, except that we are not in front of bankruptcy, that then the government allows itself to lose 30m euros in a year and a half of days of waiting for this law to be applied. I, Mr. Ljajic, don't think you're personally, as minister, responsible for this sort of thing, but you're here by law for a year to define a professional exam, and 18 months to define the conditions for enrolment in the register. What does that mean? That when conditions are obtained after a year for a professional exam, someone should wait another six months for the professional exam to pass and register a new immovable transport agency. We think it's a really long deadline and if the government really wants to be effective, then the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts can't be six months, but you should have accepted this proposal and cut that deadline to 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25247	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25248	We wanted to have a deadline to make sure we could respect it. We can take 30 days, but he knows it won't be anything. We've had a lot of cases before to pass laws that we know in advance are dead letters on paper. We have to bring in seven sublegal acts, or regulations under this law. Before that, we need to consult the profession, consult many agencies. As you said yourself, we need to define how to pass an expert exam, the content of these exams. It's still a big deal. It's the first time we've done this, and we didn't want to leave room for any improvisation. That's the only reason we moved it to six months instead of 30 days, as you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25249	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25250	Thank you. We just want to support this LDP amendment for the reasons we know this law has been being prepared for more than three years. He's new and you're in the opening statement and you said the previous government prepared it as a proposal. There's been a lot of work. Basically, sublegal acts need to be prepared for law enforcement, and therefore we do not criticise the fact that, as you said, Mr. Vice President, you have set a real deadline for starting the entire law, because it is not necessary to say that one change will happen overnight if it is necessary to prepare what you mentioned. We think it's very important that at least in this domain that doesn't cost anything, just the effort of your officers, to try to show this market where things are going, it doesn't cost anything, and as your colleague mentioned, some estimates that you're stubbornly refusing to give us today, for the fourth time, I'm asking you most politely to tell us how much the market really was this year, if you've succeeded... (President: Mr. Djelic, I must warn you again, and I will warn you as long as... Well, I know, but I'm sorry, my colleague mentioned the numbers from a few years ago. (President: No, just a little, Mr. Djelic, I must remind you of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. So we can only talk about the agenda point. That's all I'm talking about. (President: So don't insist on asking questions that really have nothing to do with the agenda point. ) I am just asking the right question, and that is that there is no traffic that this law should regulate and I think soundly, I think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will understand that absolutely well, especially those who are trying to sell some real estate, and even more others who are trying to buy it. Excuse me, the legitimate question is, why isn't there any market activity we're trying to regulate here today? It's not normal for the Prime Minister not to say a single word about the matter that needs to be regulated by this law. These people, today we're talking about trying to create additional conditions, and we know that reality, that's what those who tell you are the subject of regulation of this law, say they have no business, and that's why it's absolutely legitimate to go into dialogue and to ask why this is happening, why in the official letter of the Ministry of Finance, to give you this document, it's said that it fell in the domain of building 40, 50% in total and that nothing is foreseen in the budget next year. We want the Prime Minister to tell us at least something about whether people who deal with real estate mediation will have to deal with it in the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25251	Mr. Djelic, the Prime Minister is not present, so he cannot answer your question. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in the principles and details, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We are moving to consider the 3rd item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE WEIGHT AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SUBMISSION OF THE SUBMISSION OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE DEVICE, in particular, you have received amendments submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djerić and Jovan Palalić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. To Article 2. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25252	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Article 2 defines the objectives to be achieved by the adoption of this law, so it says, establishing controls in the areas of imports and exports of dual-use goods, providing legal services and technical assistance in relation to dual-use goods for the purpose of achieving and protecting defence, security, we have added the economic and foreign-political interests of the Republic of Serbia, achieving Serbia's international credibility through respect for the international commitments undertaken and the establishment of the domestic legislation system necessary for all of these above-mentioned things to be realised. Since this is a very clear, very high state interest, I felt here that it was necessary to, among all these things that you listed in Article 2, say that the aim of this law is to establish state control in the area of all of this. I think this is completely meaningful and that our amendment should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25253	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, National MP Donka Banovic submitted. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25254	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 3, Mrs. Banovic and I have submitted the amendment. Article 3 refers to the definition of the concepts used in the text of the law. As in the previous law, we felt it was necessary to define very precisely the concepts and clearly determine what is what. That's why we here, this amendment, that's exactly what we wanted to clear up, thinking that in the later application of the law, this will only have a quality, because a law that doesn't need to be interpreted is a law that is applicable. If we need to interpret every law, then it seems to me to be a great danger to that fundamental application of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25255	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25256	I don't know what's going on with this new unit, but I'm loud enough for you to hear me out. Thank you for giving me your word. Therefore, Article 5, the heading above Article 5, is ‘The jurisdiction to adopt a list’, here it is, of course, spoken of a national double-use checklist, that exports and imports of dual-use goods from this list be carried out on the basis of a licence. You are proposing that the foreign trade ministry be the only one in charge of establishing this list and then propose to the government that the proposal be adopted. We think it's really very important that the ministries cooperate with each other and that, in such a way, very close co-operation is given quality. We have somehow learned that we have shared jurisdiction with the ministries and this co-operation is very complicated, as far as Serbia is concerned, and I think it brings quality. We have proposed that here with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economy be responsible for the adoption of the proposal for this list, because we think that there is much broader insight here and that then these two competent ministries can pass on the proposal to the government of that list to be adopted. We think our amendment is of quality and should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25257	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25258	Of course, we co-operate with all the ministries, including the Ministry of Economy to determine the list, we get opinions from all relevant ministries and other institutions. The ministry only proposes to the government, and eventually the government adopted the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25259	The word is by the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25260	We would like to support the amendment proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, because it is not just a matter of trade, it is here and how the issue of the economy, and I would ask about this law to tell us what the situation in the dedicated industry is. We hear it's "14. October" in Kruševec, not to mention many other factories in the domain of the dedicated industry, that exports actually have less and less, not to be even better regulated by one branch which, after difficulties in the last ten years, has increased exports from 70 to 250 million dollars in the last four or five years, but we hear that exports are dropping. Mr. Vice President, would you do us a favor with the number of exports of the dedicated industry so far this year?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25261	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25262	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 9 refers to the conditions under which one who provides technical assistance, you say "help provider", to me it kind of sounds very ghastly, but I will use that term, because you use it, means that this assistance can be provided outside Serbia's territory and you say that it requires permission. If the Ministry or service provider knows or suspects that the goods are partly or wholly intended for illicit purposes, then the Ministry shall decide whether authorisation or not is necessary for the provision of such technical assistance. If technical assistance is provided in the light of information publicly available, those points 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply. We believe that from this rule, non-application of points 1, 2 and 3 must not apply to the case when technical assistance is provided as part of basic scientific research. We think there's absolutely no need to exclude that part, because it's a very important part and I can give you a number of examples that show that it's just very important that there are no exceptions and that it's necessary to apply attitudes 1, 2 and 3 to this part, when parts of scientific research are at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25263	He has the word Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25264	There are two reasons why we did not accept this amendment. First, as this is an international standard in this area, we do not have in any of the EU's regulatory countries to issue licences for scientific research, and secondly, we wanted to avoid unnecessary additional administration when issuing licences and for scientific research.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25265	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. There is a word from MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 10 refers to the issue of permits. The law provides that export licences and imports of dual-use goods, for the provision of brokerage services and for technical assistance in relation to the goods shall be individual for one year. We are changing, somehow we remain clear here, and because of this and we are doing this repair, you say that "exceptionally from Article 2 of this article, if the realisation of the job lasts for more than a year, the permit can be issued on the deadline for the completion of the contract," and in the next position you say, "in the case of Article 3, the holder of the contract is obliged to report once a year to the Ministry of Realisation of the job". We believe that it is necessary to reduce this once a year, or twice a year, practically to six months, that type of report is delivered to the Ministry of Labour Implementation. For this previous member, I will talk about the following amendment: ‘exceptionally, if the performance of the work takes longer than one year, the authorisation may be issued for a longer period, but so that the period of validity of the licence cannot be longer than two years from the date of the authorisation’. I think we've simplified things. I think we've defined very precisely. I think we should practically accept this amendment of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25267	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25268	I'm sorry, I really didn't see this government report, I couldn't find it, so I didn't hear it, they accepted the amendment. Is that right? No, I don't. ) So in Article 13, I added a new position, which reads: "The Ministry may, depending on the type of goods to which the request relates, request an opinion from other state authorities." That's where the story continues when you say you're looking practically and you're working with all the ministries and all the other state authorities, that's fine. I think it is much more important to regulate this matter legally and indeed seek this type of co-operation, because in many ministries it does not work in the best possible way. Otherwise, this article shall be governed by the decision-making procedure upon request for authorisation. I think I'm completely on the trail of what is the essence of this Article 13 and that this attitude that I've added just goes as a quality addition to this and solves the matter. I think this practically came out of attitude one, so it's unclear why they didn't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25269	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25270	Because there is already a Commission identification of dual-intention goods in which experts from different fields, experts from VMA, the Vinč Institute, the Military-Technical Institute, are in place. So, all these experts are involved in this commission, which ultimately proposes to the ministry to establish a list of double purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25271	Thank you. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25272	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, in this amendment, I wanted to point out the need for more serious communication or information on such an important area. By the way, I want to say that this is an extremely important law and it's important what is being passed. It is important that because of the fact that we participate in different agreements that regulate this issue, so is the fact that this increases our security as well. However, this amendment concerning the exemption in the matter of granting consent, I considered it necessary, regardless of the fact that ministers sit together in the government, that it is nevertheless necessary to inform the ministries and the competent authorities in Article 13 who decide on a request for authorisation. I don't understand why you didn't accept the amendment. I read your explanation. I have to be honest, I didn't get an answer reading a text like this explaining why the amendment was rejected. This is one general explanation for the rejection of the amendment. It was a small effort to inform such important authorities, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the VBA and the BIA of the fact that authorisation is granted in one special procedure and special procedure. In my amendment, it wasn't even asking for consent, it was asking for them to be informed. We wanted in every way possible to avoid the situation, since the competent ministry, in this case your ministry doesn't need to know all the necessary information or to have the necessary information about one job, to at least inform these authorities that can give an answer or have some kind of comment on a specific job. In that sense, I am surprised that this amendment has not been accepted. He was extremely well-intentioned. I don't think this is any extra work for just your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25273	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25274	True, this is more technical than the fundamental remark we could accept. The only reason is that we have previously received the opinion of these very organs and on their suggestion we are making a decision on the exemption. We felt it was illogical, they informed us and gave the opinion that some goods should be excluded, and now we inform them that we have made a decision about it. That's all we didn't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25275	Thank you. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25276	The amendment is on the same page. Now we can talk about what you said, but this is about a formal obligation from the ministry to do this thing and that the law obliges those authorities to give that information. This was about the fact that if the government decided not to issue a permit, it was about the situation that these authorities could refer to this particular situation. I don't understand why this amendment, as it was before, wasn't accepted. I don't see why it would seem like a special effort or a special job if such a commitment was made by your ministry or other bodies in this case. I think that specifically the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence have more concrete opportunities to obtain information that may be controversial when it comes to a particular job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25277	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 17th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25278	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, now this Article 17, and later by 21 they prescribe the possibilities and specific reasons for refusing to issue a licence, that is this member, then, the termination of the permit, the withdrawal and the amendment of the permits issued. In this Article 17, we are talking about issuing licences and in paragraph 1 relating to the reasons for refusal of authorisation applications, we added another. It says that the goods for which the permit is sought are subject to a court dispute. We think that's enough reason not to give permission until a court dispute is settled. Then we added a new position 2 which reads – in the event of refusal of authorisation requests, I am informing the Ministry of the application for reasons for which the licence has not been issued, not stating the secret or protected information in accordance with the law that regulates such data. I think we're completely on track for what you wanted in article 17. We suggest you accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25279	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25280	To be honest, we don't often know ourselves what the reasons are, because we get, say, from a BIA memo saying that there are no conditions for exporting that kind of goods. We accept that information without looking for these essential real reasons, so we're not even able to talk about these reasons to get to know the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25281	Thank you. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25282	I don't know if we understand each other, Mr. Secretary. We're not even asking you in that data to provide those protected data, classified information, to get to know the party. We make it clear in this Appendix – in case of refusal to issue a licence, the ministry informs the applicant of the request for reasons for which it has not been issued, but not by stating further that secret information. We need to understand each other. We are not asking that these classified data, protected data be made available in any way, but that it is necessary for the applicant to obtain some reasons for not being registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25283	Thank you. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25284	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 24 are actually reports. It relates to the obligations of exporters and importers, brokers and technical assistance providers to keep records of imports and exports, on the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance services. It is said in point 1 that the exporter, i.e. the importer, broker or technical assistance provider, is obliged to submit a report to the Ministry within 15 days of the activity being carried out. We think that a 15-day period is a pretty long period and we think that we should finally establish this efficiency of work on both sides. We think it's very important here to speed up the process from 15 days to seven days, and I think it's a viable deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25285	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25286	Article 27 refers to a provision on the participation of the Ministry in the exchange of information on imports and exports of dual-use goods, brokering services and technical assistance services and prohibiting the transit of dual-use goods with other countries. It is, of course, quite clear, because it is Serbia's international obligation and our amendment is fully in line with that. We added a new position 2: "In order to implement the dual-purpose control regime of the Ministry, in co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, update and publish on its website a list of countries under the United Nations Security Council, the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation and other international organisations whose Republic of Serbia is a member." We think this is just improving the quality of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25287	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25288	What is the content of your amendment will be part of the Law on restrictive measures normally done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I believe that it will be before the MPs very soon, and that it will be an express obligation to be the authorities that will propose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25289	Thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25290	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 29 refers to criminal provisions for offences committed by a legal person or by an entrepreneur carrying out imports, exports, brokerage services and technical assistance. The law provided for the possibility of giving a safeguard measure in accordance with the Law on Infringements. We're changing that contract model again that you're actually offering. You say that a safeguard measure can be expressed, and we believe that laws should in that sense avoid that contractual variant – they can, but they don't have to. We believe that we should say – there is also a safeguard measure for banning a legal person, etc. So, just defining that contractual way in a much more active way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25291	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 31st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was surprised when you were in the past law, when we talked about the speed of the adoption of sublegal acts, saying that writing on paper and cutting deadlines doesn't mean you can do it in practice. Mrs. Banovic and I insisted in our amendment that the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts be speeded up. You say in Article 31. Sublegal acts implementing this law will be passed within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. Of course, it is quite clear to me that deadlines are very important, but it is also very clear to me that without sublegal acts, the law cannot be applied in full capacity, as lawyers like to say, and that is why we felt that it was much more appropriate to speed up the procedure for the adoption of sublegal acts. We offered three months. It may be a short term, but we definitely all have to realize that the administration has to do its jobs much faster, because it won't be possible for the state to work if every time we extend the adoption of sublegal acts, especially if we break that deadline that we pass in laws. I can give you half an hour of laws in which sublegal acts have not been passed on to the laws of 2006, 2009 and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25293	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25294	I agree with you. The situation here is simpler than the previous law, there are fewer sublegal acts and we accept the amendment to shrink from six to three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25295	Thank you, Minister. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the ELECTRON TRADE You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dusica Morčev, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and the amendment of the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Together, MPs Dusica Morčev and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade mainly dealt with the terminologyal changes due to compliance with European directives, there was no big room for amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade, so we, too, used to manage the proposed amendments, to possibly supplement or specify some of the formulations in the way we thought it was more logical or perhaps more precise than the proposal for the law that was given. As far as Article 2 is concerned, we suggest that Article 1 be deleted. Article 2 defines the meaning of certain terms and expressions in electronic trade, so that you have provided that the proposal deletes the formulation of what this information is and what it is, with the reason that there is no need because it is not termologically in accordance with the European Directive. We suggest that both of these concepts remain in the bill, because at point 20, you say that the service provider must inform the competent state authority if he has reasonable doubts that, so point 2 says the user of his service has provided unauthorised information. So this is where the term “unauthorized data” already appears, so either we change this point 2 in Article 20 or we delete it, that there is no or there will be a confusion whether or not we have kept the term “unauthorized data”.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25297	Thank you. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25298	Thank you. In this amendment, we specify point 4 of Article 3 of the basic law, where it is in fact one of the major amendments and additions to this law, which refers to who all providers of information society services are. As amendments and additions to the Law are foreseen, in addition to legal entities and entrepreneurs, they are now also natural persons who have the property of a trader in accordance with the Law on Trade. However, this amendment makes it clear that both legal persons and entrepreneurs are registered in the Republic of Serbia and legal persons and entrepreneurs who have the properties of a foreign person, as they do not clearly define a legal framework for them in this proposal. We believe that it is not enough just to say in Article 4(1) – The provider of services based in the Republic of Serbia is obliged to act and provide services in accordance with the laws and regulations adopted under the law of the Republic of Serbia. So there we can find some legal framework for all service providers, and especially as Article 5 of the Law deletes Article 3 and 4 where it was once again provided that all service providers are registered in the Register of Business Entities, with the reason that this material is regulated by another law. We simply felt it wasn't excess, not asking for bread and water, to keep these provisions in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25299	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25300	This provision practically regulates the behaviour of participants on the domestic market. Those who reach our inspection bodies, those by whom we can carry out a measure. Otherwise, we could have a solution that's practically inadmissible. So we define the behaviour of those traders who work and who are registered in accordance with the Law on Trade, who operate on the domestic market. I know what the intensity of this amendment was, but, realistically, it would be difficult to apply in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25301	The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25302	Thank you, Mr. Minister, just a brief review. In Article 5, point 3 and 4 is still deleted where it was stated that the service provider must be registered in the register of economic operators, and the views remain that the provider of information society services is free, means free of charge, and no special authorisation and approval is required. So it gives a wide range of space that anyone can deal with, so it's free and doesn't need special approval. That's why we tried to amend the fact that a domestic legal person, that a foreign legal person, that an entrepreneur, gave a physical person as a trader under the Trade Act. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25303	National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević submitted together to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25304	And this amendment can rest on these previous two. We suggest that article 4 be deleted. Article 4 The draft law provides for the erasure of points 3 and 4 of the basic law, which imposes an obligation on service providers to register before they start carrying out their activities in the register of economic operators. We believe that this obligation should continue to remain, no matter what the reasoning states that this matter is regulated by another law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25305	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Radmila Gerov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25306	Thank you, Vice President. The amendment that we have made to this article concerns the fines provided for in this law. We believe that by amending the Law on Electronic Trade, the Government has prescribed enormously high penalties for violations. The government's reasoning for which it did not accept this amendment to the LDP is that the bill contains amendments to the provisions on the penalty of the basic law which are proportionately and justly measured. Mr. Minister, neither are these penalties proportional, and even less justly measured. I suppose you have the text of the law with you, so I'd like you to look at it and pay attention that it's not even proportional, let alone justly measured. These penalties apply to legal persons, natural persons, entrepreneurs and responsible persons. When it is said that something proportional is measured, in mathematics it is understood that if you increase something twice, it will be true twice for everyone. In fact, the government has proposed that punishment for a legal person be two million dinars. It's an increase of 100% or twice. We have proposed with our amendment that the fine be maximum to a million and a half dinars. The fine you prescribed for a natural person and a responsible person in a legal person is between 50,000 and 150,000 dinars. First of all, the minister, it's an increase in the minimum sentence of five times, or 400%, and three times the increase in this maximum sentence. And you wrote with the entrepreneur that the sentence ranged from 10,000 to 500,000 dinars. Is it fair for a natural person to have a sentence that is five times the penalty to be paid by an entrepreneur, a basic starting sentence? So, by this bill of law, you suggested that the fine for a natural person be of 50,000 dinars, and for an entrepreneur of 10,000 dinars. You'll agree, Minister, that it's really not fair. Five times the penalty has been increased for the entrepreneur. We therefore felt that the basic starting penalty should remain 10,000 dinars and be between 10,000 and 300,000 for the entrepreneur, and for the responsible person from 10,000 to 150,000, and there would be three times that increase everywhere, and that would be posporial. With a bill like this, it means that the penalties are dragonish, huge, truly huge fines of the minister, 20,000 euros in fines for an economic operator. If someone doesn't respect the law, of course he should be punished, and he should pay the penalty for the violations. But does anyone in Serbia today have traffic twice as much as last year so that such punishment can pay? Is a physical person, and is it fair that a natural person has an initial sentence five times higher than the initial punishment for an entrepreneur? You'll agree that's not fair at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25307	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25308	The idea was to prevent the gray trade, but I agree with you that the penalties are too strict and in voting day we will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25309	The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the next item of the agenda - PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS You have received amendments submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Irena Aleksić, Zoran Antić, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagić, Nebojsa Berić, Mr Igor Bečić, Dr. Branislav Blažić, Zoran Bojanić, Jelena Budimirović, Irena Vujović, Katica Vijuk, prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić, Maja Gojković, Mr Milovan Drecun, Aleksandra Đurović, Milinko Zivković, Stjefan Zankov, Biljana Ilić Stošić, Milanka Jevtović Vukoičić, Jadranka Joksimović, Bojan Jakovljevic, Milan Karić, Oto Kišmarton, Mr Milan Knezevčević, Radmila Miladović, Miodrag Linta, Saša Maksimović, Mirjana Marjanović, Vesna Marković, Pavle Markov, Jelena Mijatović, Marija Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Ljiljana Miladović, Žačaža Žač, Mirjanović, Mirja Muković, Duković, Dušica Nikomić, Drodrag Niković, Dražako Mic, Draožko Mić, Dražko Mić, Dražina Mić, Drjadić Obrad Mábić, Dr. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev have submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25310	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1, which sets out the criteria for determining the dominant position on the relevant market. This is one of the most important amendments to this law and we commended it in the principle debate. Now we have these nine criteria that we hope will certainly facilitate the work of the commission when it is necessary to make decisions in determining who is in the dominant position. At point 2, you kept a 40% market share for one participant on the relevant market, but with this proposal you deleted the definition of two or more participants, which was 50 or more in the basic law. Our amendment refers to exactly that. We believe that it should remain in this law, because here I am now asking you the next question – how will the Commission decide on market participation in collective domination, i.e. when we have two or more participants, if there is no such thing as this? That is why we have submitted this amendment because we deeply believe that this amendment would improve this member of the law, and therefore this whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25311	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25312	Last time we talked about it. The idea was to throw out any percentage when we're talking about individual and collective domination and it's just one of the parameters. So we're coming out of this percentage regime when it comes to both of them and the other domination. We're abolishing that 40% and it would be illogical to introduce 50% now as a presumption of collective domination. So this remains as one of the parameters and in the same way that each individual is determined, collective domination will be determined, without defining the percentages in the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25313	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. There is a word from MP Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25314	Mr Chairman, the motionor provided in Article 1 the final view that the burden of proving a dominant position on the identified relevant market is on the Commission. So, the commission's carrying it. We have only proposed to the amendment that the burden of proof, although it might be more logical to say – the costs of proof, the existence of a dominant position on the identified relevant market are borne by the commission if the participant or market participants do not have a market share in item 2 and item 3 of this Article, or if they are not in a dominant position with 40% or if they are not in a dominant position in collective domination. Because why would the commission pay for them? In these cases, we believe that the costs of proving a dominant position should be borne by these market participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25315	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 3 The bill regulates the composition of the commission and provides for this view that, including the chairman of the commission, experts must be represented: "from both relevant areas", and it concerns the area of law and economy. With the amendment, we tried to retain a solution from the basic law, where the president of the commission and members of the commission's council would be elected from the ranks of prominent law and economy experts. We have particularly highlighted what areas of expertise are: the area of competition protection and European law, with at least 10 years of relevant work experience, which have achieved significant and recognised works, or in practice, in the relevant area and which enjoy the reputation of an objective and impartial person. And in the principle debate, we emphasized that this key two plus two eliminates many experts who will appear the next day, with these special knowledge, to the public competition, so we'll have a case of ten quality people who can meet these criteria, we'll have eight lawyers and only two economists, so we'll have to delete six lawyers, move them off the list, to satisfy this key two plus two. That is why we felt that this solution should continue to remain that it is the essential experts in these areas, but that it should be emphasized – with special knowledge in the field of European law and in the area of protection of competition. The President of the Assembly is calling for a public ad, these experts are coming forward, but when the committee of parliament is due to submit a ranking list to us MPs, we do not know what criteria these are based on which they will be sorted on the ranking list. We'll probably be denied in that case for a quality debate, when individuals entered the list and individuals didn't. That's why we suggested in the principle debate, that the competent ministry should give clear and precise criteria, that we, as MPs who will choose them here tomorrow, know on the basis of which criteria a ranking list is made where the first four or the first eight people on that list are located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25317	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25318	We have proposed that this Article 6 be deleted, for the reason that so far under the applicable Competition Protection Act, it was the commission that charged the fees for the issue of acts, and by the fact that you change the term "refund" to the term "practice", practically that payment of revenue will be made through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and you are really harmonising it with the Budget System Act. We believe that the Competition Protection Commission must be independent in its work. First of all, financially independent. There are no fees or fees that big and certainly not a significant revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget, without which the budget of the Republic of Serbia would not be full enough to say so. But it is very important that this commission is financially independent, because this commission decides on a monopoly. In this way, the Commission depends on the government of the Republic of Serbia and is financially dependent on the executive authority. Unless, for example, This commission should determine whether there is a monopoly related to Simpo, whether the state pays certain things for Simpo, and we know that we also have other furniture manufacturers, whether Simpo is in a tumonopolitical position, then the question – how would the decision, regardless of what members of the Commission are both professional and quality, be made? We believe that this Article 6 should be deleted, that this revenue from the issue of acts should remain the Commission's income for the protection of competition and allow the commission to be financially independent from the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25319	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25320	This provision does not affect the financial or any other independence of the Commission. Last time I said the same thing, it was a alignment with the Budget System Act. The financial plan of each commission is adopted by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25321	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović, Branka Karavidić and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hjadarevic, together with Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic, submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three key objections from LDP MPs to this bill. One concerns financial independence, which is likely to jeopardise such a solution, said Mrs. Gerov, the other concerns the two-degree nature of the procedure, and the third concerns the retroactivity of the application of this law to the procedures that have been initiated under the law that is currently in force. So it's that there's a big difference, and there's not just a termological difference and a termological alignment with the Budgetary System Act, when we're talking about taxes and fees. The Competition Protection Commission is an independent national regulatory body. They have their own tariff. On the basis of that tariff, they charge a certain fee. The tax will be regulated by the Law on Administrative Taxes and there are huge differences between how in fact this fee, the apparent fee, will continue, no matter what we call it, to be determined, and its height and how it will be charged, from whom it will be charged, and everything else that matters when it comes to some kind of financial giving. However, in this Article 8, where you are in fact erasing the possibility of someone contacting the second-degree authority, after having received a conclusion governing the procedure and making it impossible for them to respond at the right time to certain irregularities in the procedure, you are in fact violating this type of two-stage procedure in administrative proceedings. Therefore, it is very important that the party, when taking part in a procedure, has the right to react if it considers that a single regulatory body, in this case, has decided in some way, by law, contrary to the law, and is in violation of some right. It's not enough to refer later to an administrative dispute. It is therefore important to respond in time, given that the procedures before the Competition Protection Commission are serious cases, with serious financial consequences for participants in the process. Thirdly, as far as retroactiveness is concerned, it is really necessary to respect the positive rules somehow and all those procedures that have started, it would be good, legal certainty for the sake of, and to end up according to the procedure that is currently in place. When you decide to change certain rules in walking, you are, in this way, literally, disrupting some predictability, in fact, how this procedure will take place for interested persons in the process before the Competition Protection Commission. That is why we believe that this bill has certain shortcomings, which greatly threaten the independence of the Commission's work, and are also jeopardising the rights of these other participants in the process. Because you will allow, if one complaint is missing, or if the procedure ends in the end under some new rules, it is nothing more than just endangering the rights of the participants.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25323	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25324	I must say that this was an express request and a proposal from the commission, to install one of these provisions into the text of the amendments to the law. In fact, we faced the problem that very often the parties filed a complaint, thus extending the procedure to infinity. On the other hand, this is a alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act, where there is no right to appeal to all conclusions. And here there is the right to appeal to certain conclusions, it is defined, as there is the right to appeal after the end of the proceedings. That's two reasons why we didn't accept this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25325	Thank you. Replica, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25326	Thank you. Mr Minister, with all due respect to both you and the Competition Protection Commission, it is very important to protect the interests not only of the Commission, but also of the participants in the procedure before the Commission. In this way, the right of that participant is really violated. What's gonna happen? You leave the possibility of arbitration, of self-will, of breaking certain rules and rules by the commission, all to the detriment of the participants against whom the procedure is being conducted. I understand that this is one problem for them, if the parties respond to certain irregularities, I understand that they might want some more effective procedure, but it is not a solution to make this kind of restrictiveness, or repression even, but to strengthen the quality and efficiency of the Commission's work. So that's the answer to whether or not you need a two-stage procedure. Because a two-stage procedure is essential for this very reason, in order to ensure maximum objectivity in the process and protect all rights. The Competition Protection Commission has otherwise requested to remain in charge, rather than in charge of the taxi. However, you failed to comply with their request. Therefore, in this case you should not be so cooperative. Let the party to the procedure also have certain enhanced rights when it comes to the management of the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25327	According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25328	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must ask you - is it a little illogical that I am talking about this amendment and that this amendment even exists here when you read the amendments and the MPs who submitted them, you did not read that Mrs. Banovic and I have submitted the amendments. We have submitted amendments, so please, if there's any chance of you fixing it. We've submitted the amendments, they've been recorded, and that's why I can talk about them today. What did Mrs. Banovic and I want to achieve with this amendment to Article 8? The previous law, whose amendments and additions are now ahead of us, provided for the possibility that, if the party in the procedure was not satisfied with the answer, it has the right to appeal, the conclusion, and if it considers that its right has been violated in any way, it has the right to appeal. It is a democratic right, a democratic institute in all countries in the world, including Serbia, and therefore we do not believe that it was necessary to exclude the possibility and exclude its right to appeal. We believe that the reason you have stated here and now that it is economical, that the parties in the process have been in a position to complain endlessly and that it has lost meaning then, we believe that the abolition of the democratic institute, and that justice by economics, cannot actually contribute to the improvement of this country, nor to better use of this law, nor will it lead to the acceleration of the whole process. Of course, speed is important and we are all talking about cutting some procedures, but it is very important that this speed is followed by all other democratic procedures and all other democratic institutes. I think the right to appeal is the right of every citizen and every party in the process and should remain here. I think the better solution was in the previous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25329	If I understand you correctly, I'm really sorry, but I think I read that you have submitted the amendment. I apologize, you're right, the amendment was brought together by Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic, it's my fault. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government on the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, it's not your fault. The mistake is the service that wrote it, but it's not such a terrible mistake, it's a possible correction, I'm just saying we've been putting up with amendments. We also felt that this Article 9 should be deleted and again said it was ugly to abolish democratic institutes such as the right to appeal. Anyone who thinks that his rights have been violated has the right to appeal, and the procedure needs to be interpreted differently, that it lasts shorter and more, but that the right to appeal remains. However, you are offering an opportunity, and you spoke of it when you explained to Mrs Popovic that if the party in the procedure is not satisfied with the conclusion, it can appeal to the president of the commission. Even if she is not satisfied with his conclusion, she has the right to appeal and appeal to the Council, which decides on her. I believe it is further in the work, that the second part is quite in the work, but that this first part, which is foreseen by the abolition of this complaint in Article 8, is not good and that what the parties were doing was right. It is okay to protect the work of the commission, it is okay to speed up the work of the commission, but it must be found a modus to speed up the work of the commission, on the one hand, but not to lift the democratic right of everyone to complain about the violation of their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25331	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusan Morčević and Milan Lapčević. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you don't want to delete it, then let's deal with Article 9. In Article 9. The draft law shall be amended and complemented by Article 45 of the basic law, which regulates the protection of data sources for the applicant of the competition infringement initiative. By amendment to Article 9, we propose to delete in Article 45(1) the word ‘party’, because at the beginning of that sentence in paragraph 1, it is said that ‘at the request of the party, the persons who are the applicant of the competition infringement initiative may be determined to protect the data sources, etc.’ In order to avoid any misunderstanding, Article 33 of the basic law clearly states that the term ‘party’ is, that is, the party is merely the applicant of the competition’s application. So, the market participant against whom the investigation was initiated. It's in the termological sense of the party, in terms of this law. In the view of Article 2(2), it is said that the party's property within the meaning of this Act does not have the applicants of an initiative to examine the infringement of competition, information providers, etc. We consider it more logical to stand in this position – at the request of the person who is the applicant of the initiative, etc. It means erasing the word “party ” because there will be a terminologyal confusion. It's no big deal, Mr. Secretary. Read it again, because it would be good for you to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25333	The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović, Branka Karavidić and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25334	Dear Vice President, Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, why did a group of DS Members propose to delete this amendment? The draft law states this - the Commission may conclude on the termination of the competition infringement procedure, which determines the measure set out in Article 59 of this Law, if the party submits, on the basis of the content of the opening decision, the facts laid down in the procedure, a proposal for a commitment which is willing to take place voluntarily to remove possible infringements of competition, with conditions and deadlines for the implementation of the measure. There's a real difference, and this directly affects private entrepreneurs and economic operators. Why? In principle, I talked about the problems facing the economy in Serbia, the inequality, the unequal procedures conducted by the inspection, and if the commission is given the right to amnesty, so that after three years, when it determines whether it has fulfilled all the obligations, it puts this back into consideration, then we are in a serious problem. You have one example that also affects the economy, and it's about inequality. It's a regular payment of electricity. The citizen has the right to re-programme if he has a disorderly charge for electricity, and the economic operators who do so regularly do not have a reward for what they do. Simply, I think this argument is also unclear, and it should be said that the practice of some countries in the environment should be used when you wrote a proposal for this law. For example, Macedonia proposes to shorten the beautiful process. Bosnia and Herzegovina has a competition council that further imposes sanctions in certain sectors, such as banking and telecommunications, which is not our practice. Kurdistan has introduced new rules without talking about Hong Kong and other countries. Simply, in my opinion, this member introduces illegality and the commission has the right to assess whether someone will comply with certain rules within a certain period. I think we should completely rephrase this member. If we are unable to write a law well, why not copy it from Poland or from another country that has clearly established rules? I remind you of Bulgaria, where there was a vote in the Assembly on laws that were not even translated into Bulgarian, which were good. I don't think it's enough to rely on European standards without getting ready well. So, I'm telling you one more time, think carefully about this article 15 before you adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25335	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's what we talked about in principle. We have a commission that is for a variety of reasons, in 16 decisions in 12 cases the court has knocked them down. Why in this moment the body that's been in the past years, because this is all a lot of new matter for our country, has shown that in most cases it doesn't hit the target, why give them more intelligence today? That's illogical. I invite you to accept the amendment that one large number of MPs have proposed here. It's not time to introduce every Anglo-Saxon concept into our legal order. Simply, for ten years, we have some consultants from an EU country, and rarely from the United States, who are coming and trying to introduce into our system some ways of doing things and some ways of sharing justice and the decision of the state administration that may be part of their tradition. It is clear that EU law is one mixture of continental and Anglo-Saxon. They themselves have a big problem to fight. Infrequently, Anglo-Saxon principles are shown to be more effective. That's not controversial. Here's one. One here says very seemingly soundly – well, if the party in the procedure says that it is ready to take measures which, by the commission's assessment, will lead to the removal of what is a violation of competition, why not accept it? Of course, that's what it looks like, but at this point, we see that those decisions that the commission itself made in most cases have been brought down by the court. At this point, it is certain that the member you propose cannot be accepted. Look at the procedure you're proposing here. In this process, a potentially damaged party, which may be damaged if the commission accepts the proposal made by whoever is suspected of abuse of competition rules, can comment, can address the commission, but there is nothing clear about what is happening in this procedure. It does not show how these remarks will be exposed. There is no way the commission will act on these remarks. It's simply given a sovereign right to a commission that's been missing a target over the past few years to deal with the one she just suspected of breaking competition rules. This is not the time. Maybe in a few years, when her decisions are tested where she belongs, in courts, she shows she's hitting the target, she's established enough doctrine, and then maybe it'll be time for one of these possibilities to be introduced. Mr. Vice President, we think this amendment is in your interest. Imagine what will happen in a few months, a year, when the commission accepts someone's proposal for the first time. Don't be surprised if the damaged party says that in the middle of a non-transparent agreement, that something was going on under the grain, that it might not be seen how the commission has considered the objections that the damaged party has introduced into this procedure, and we here in parliament are asking you or whoever succeeds you by then. Because certainly real competition becomes an extremely important thing. This is about significant resources, big economic matters, power, money. It is therefore very important that, firstly, according to the existing procedure which was good enough for the EU a few years ago, because this law and its changes have been given the green light of the EU, do not be afraid of anything. I know you were scared the other day of a sentence in a report by the Commission on cigarettes from Croatia. That's why we gave everything, and we didn't get anything. I assure you, there are much more serious problems in the European Commission's report. We've all read it from security regulations to intellectual property issues. There's a lot of work to do. This isn't a priority. That is why it is in your interest to accept this amendment. He is well-intentioned and we will watch together the practice of the Competition Protection Commission. If we see that she has the doctrine, that all these things that are useful in these amendments and additions to the law, for example, That there are experts in other important areas in its ranks, that the quality of decisions should be improved first, and then when we see that everything is fine, then we can give them more power. There's no time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25337	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25338	I said here that since the 16 decisions of the commission, 12 have fallen in the Administrative Court. What the commission did as it did, we blamed everyone who voted in favour of the commission's composition. And I've been involved in this, and the vast majority here voted in favour of the commission's composition, but one of the reasons we're changing this law right now is that we're increasing the capacity of the commission to strengthen the commission, to give new instruments, mechanisms, so that the fight against harm to competition will be more successful. Another thing, if we want to join the EU, then it is clear what we should do in terms of adapting and legal regulatory harmonisation of our legislation. If you think we can take what's right for us from the table and what's not right for us to throw, you're a better expert than I am for the EU. I'm not sure that's a good way to go. This is a fully-incorporated EU 2003 Regulation on the protection of competition, completely, from letter to letter. The second thing is whether our commission, in its current composition, can do it. It's a completely different topic, and I agree it can't. This composition can't do that, although I am now wrong to assess the commission's work at all, but the results are such that they give me the right to say that they were unsuccessful, as soon as so many commission decisions have been taken down. So I think this is one provision that will, to a significant extent, help resolve slowly. Finally, I said in principle debate, 60% of disputes in the EU in the area of competition injury are resolved thanks to this provision. You have the right to doubt. I agree, if we look at the current composition of the commission, I'd suspect the same as you, but the composition of the commission will change. We cannot adapt the legal provisions to the current personal composition of this commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25339	Replica, Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25340	Vice President, I'm already worried. The argument you gave us now was that it was a bad choice of people. I guess we have to build institutions and procedures to ensure that any human error doesn't lead to major problems. You are now proposing to this member to introduce a much greater risk if most people here choose the wrong people. We agree then, Mr. Vice President. You've made even better arguments than I have to accept our amendment. We simply need to introduce what is useful at a given moment in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. We are concerned because we see, in several cases already now, that the EU dialogue is that nothing is done until the moment they expose the ultimatum and then everything has to be accepted. Yes, I was in charge of European integration the moment the previous law got the green light. And yes, there was that same directive that you're talking about. So, what did we say to the EU? What I have said today in front of the MPs and our citizens. Just that, the Republic of Serbia has a legal tradition that is continental, above all Germany, in part France, like all other EU member states, certain Anglo-Saxon-type institutes are progressively introduced into European law, and thus also into the rights of certain EU countries. You know very well that there is no unequivocality here either. We all know very well that there is little, let me tell you, a roulette that the consultant will be sent to you, and that roulette comes from who won some tender to be a consultant for a certain matter. Well, we can't let that depend on the way we determine a very important thing in the area of competition protection. Therefore, Mr. Lying, you have just brilliantly confirmed why you must accept this amendment, I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25341	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Article 15. The draft law introduces one of the major newspapers in this proposal to amend and supplement the Competition Protection Act, which provides that the competition infringement procedure can be terminated in the event that the party in the proceedings itself voluntarily proposes certain measures and obligations that will be taken to eliminate injury to competition. We have responded here according to the amendment both to paragraph 1 and to paragraph 2 and to the position of the 3rd of this article. In point 1. We simply tried to specify that in the event that the infringement of competition is not done to a significant extent, that is what we added in this position, the party is determined, or is obliged to compensate or eliminate the damage suffered. So, in addition to setting her terms and deadlines to which these measures of her own will be voluntaryly proposed. Article 2 is specified within what time limit the party may submit its own proposal. In the bill of law, you say that this proposal can be submitted at the latest before the notification referred to in Article 38(2) of this Act. So, you simply said only at the latest when possible. We believe that our amendment is a little precise because we have put the proposal in place as early as possible after the opening decision has been reached, because when the Commission concludes by initiative that the procedure is being initiated, it becomes some of the essential elements on the basis of which the protection procedure, i.e. injury to competition, will be initiated. Only then can the party in the process see certain elements based on which he can make his proposal. So this is some of the earliest moments, and no later than the receipt of the notice from Article 38, paragraph 2 of this law. That is the notification received by the party in the procedure before obtaining a decision to initiate the procedure. So this should be some last moment until the party can make these suggestions about the voluntary measures it wants to implement. So we believe that this is quite precise in relation to this to give the proposal, and point 3 says, that is, we tried to reform it a little bit more logically, so we say, on the basis of the party's submission to the position of the 1st member, and then the Commission makes up a notice that contains a description of the proposal and the essential elements of the subject that it publishes on its website, calling on all interested parties to submit written remarks, views and opinions within 30 days of the date of receipt, i.e. the publication of this notice. We are extending this period by ten days because we believe that 20 days is literally a short period for any party interested in this process to be able to make a proposal based on this notice. That was the essence of these amendments to Article 15(2) and (3) of these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25343	Thank you. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must only comment on a few things that have been said before and are related to this amendment. A fellow MP said that in Bulgaria, including Macedonia, they voted in favour of laws that they didn't even translate, that they proved to be quite good. They didn't show up in practice quite well, they didn't even show up at all, so I always advocate that we are seriously considering all the legal proposals in our language and that we are talking about them here. We also mentioned in Article 15 where Mrs Banovic and I had an amendment to the commission and a problem with some procedures that are obviously a bigger problem than the personal composition of the commission. I think that, you're saying that the composition of the commission was controversial, maybe it was controversial, maybe they don't really have the capacity because in that direction they work, but building institutions we're trying to build a commission institution, we have to give them, first of all, clear procedures, and in the election, then we take responsibility that these people can't follow the procedure and follow what we wanted from the law. On the other hand, to such a commission that we have clearly concluded here, the data itself and research say that this commission cannot respond to what it was built for, we are now giving it greater rights, we are raising its capacities, and we are aware that it cannot, and even if we change the personal composition, I am really very skeptical that this is just the only reason. She won't be able to meet these rights we gave her and the obligations we impose on her further. You're saying that the commission's obligation was to comply with the provisions of Article 62(4). The law shall adopt a solution within three months of the date of initiation of the procedure under official duty, otherwise the concentration shall be deemed to have been approved. It has been observed that the three-month deadline is too short and you especially say that it is short in a situation where the concentration can only be approved conditionally, so the party can propose special conditions itself, which are ready to accept that the concentration is approved. That's why you think it's in the party's interest to extend the three-month period to four months. We don't think that's a good solution. We think we should stay within that three-month period and simply all the actors in this process have to learn that we as a state, as a parliament, learn to work effectively, work at the right speed and really make sure that we spend taxpayers' money all together, that we have to invest in some kind of work for how much money we get, so we suggest that we just keep this deadline within that framework that was in the previous law, so three months. It is in the interest of the party, according to the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25345	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25346	Mr. Chairman, Article 18. The draft law shall be amended and complemented by Article 65 of the basic law, which refers in fact to the application of the concentration, i.e., that application must be, in particular, complete, in paragraph 2, as stated by the Government, but in Article 61, paragraph 4, it is said that if the application does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 61, and these are the conditions concerning the total annual income made by a particular participant on the market or not the completion of an incomplete application, the application shall be rejected. For solutions obtained after the declaration of the concentration, the applicant shall pay a fee per tariff to be made. However, in the new position of 6 it is now said – if the application of the concentration is rejected due to non-compliance with the conditions set out in Article 61, it means where the annual income is concerned, the tax shall not be paid or returned to the applicant. We have an amendment here for the erasure of this attitude, because the tariff is forecasting a fee for the motion to reject the application. What happens if the application is rejected because of its incompleteness, i.e. if rejected, because the participant has not completed the full application in time or delivered the full application, what will happen in that case, whether the tariff is to provide for the rejection of the application in the event of incomplete application, tariff or fee in the event of non-compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 61. That is why because of this ambiguity, we simply suggested that this position be deleted, because why we would return the fee charged and damage the revenue, i.e. to reduce the Commission's income and when the application was rejected due to incompleteness and intolerance within the deadlines indicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25347	Thank you. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milan Lapčević, together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25348	Dear Ministers, we have submitted an amendment to Article 20, because we believe that the amount of the procedural penalty paid in the amount of 500 to 5,000 euros for each day of behaviour, contrary to the commission's order, does not apply equally to all economic operators. So, for some economic operators, it can be an extremely high punishment, and for those entities, most importantly, that can come, i.e. to abuse the dominant position, for them can be destimulating. I don't think it's any kind of punishment that can distract them from acting on the commission's orders. That is why we have submitted an amendment suggesting that the amount be replaced by half an annual income. This amount is sharp enough, but it's far more just, fairer and more effective as far as this area is concerned. So I ask you once again to consider this amendment, because we think it's regulated, that what should be applied to, means to those largest entities, that we will simply direct them to stick to and do as the Commission has decided, while protecting all those smaller entities, for which this would be an extremely high penalty. With this amendment, we changed the deadlines for the payment of the procedural penalty. Your proposal has been proposed for up to three months, and we have extended that deadline to not be shorter than three or longer than six months, because we believe that we need to take the current state of business and how all our economic operators are doing, to simply be more tolerated in this part, to extend this deadline to six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25349	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović, Branka Karavidić and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25350	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, in Article 21 of the proposed amendments to the Law, it is said - the deadline for the delivery of the complaint with contributions to the Commission is 15 days, from the date of the court's admission. The deadline for giving an answer is 30 days, from the day of receipt of the plea for a plea. She says, paragraph 5 is changed and it is said: "The court will decide on the case no later than three months after the receipt of the response to the complaint, or the expiry of the time limit for the response to the suit." Then the following is: “The time limit for the delivery of an emergency remedy with contributions to a plea is 15 days from the day of the court’s admission, and the time limit for giving an answer is 30 days from the day of receipt of an emergency legal remedy. The Supreme Cassation Court will decide on an emergency remedy no later than three months," etc. The purpose of every law is to promote the efficiency of the judiciary. We believe that the proposed amendments in Article 21 of the legislator are doing exactly the opposite, i.e. encourages the efficiency of the judiciary. Just to answer my colleague - we had at least 90% of the laws with amendments and additions here in the Assembly. So if we are not able to make one good law that will pass all public debates, then we should prescribe some law from countries in the region or the European Union, or from countries that are members of the European Union, which have a similar situation, as it is in our country. I don't think this is a good message for the economy, just let the legal solutions get away with business entrepreneurs and business at all. For this reason, I think you should reconsider and rephrase a little bit if this is still possible, Article 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25351	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the difference between the translated laws and the prescribed laws is great. I have responded to the fact that untranslated laws are passed in parliament, and in copying that we have had the opportunity to see in the past 10 or several years, these laws are copied, and as they are then implemented into our legal system, and we have had the opportunity to see, that's why we have changes and additions every other day is here before us. Also, I think it is always much better to make a system law and then talk seriously about it in parliament, rather than shorten the process of debate in parliament, and then make changes and supplement them regularly. By the way, I should return to this Article 21 that Mrs. Banovic and I have submitted amendments. Here are the deadlines for the proceedings under appeal in the administrative dispute against the Commission's acts, and here you say – the court will decide in paragraph 4, the deadline for submitting a complaint on the Commission's contributions to a response is 15 days from the date of receipt in court, and the time limit for giving an answer is 30 days from the date of receipt of the plea. We shortened this deadline by primarily managing the dynamics of opportunities on the market and by the need to establish an efficient and responsible system of work. We also shortened the deadlines in the next position of the 5th court will make a decision on the sad decision no later than three months from the receipt of the response to the suit, i.e. the expiry of the deadline for replying to the suit. We cut those three months short for 30 days, believing that we are not doing this insecurely, but that we are really doing it with the need to finally establish order in the state and finally do work for the benefit of the citizens. Also, what you wrote in paragraph 7 – that the Supreme Casualty Court will decide on an emergency remedy no later than three months after the receipt of a response to an emergency remedy, i.e. from the expiry of the deadline for this response, this cannot be the subject of this law, the judiciary has its own laws and deadlines provided for by these laws, so that this law cannot regulate a deadline within which the Supreme Court of Cassation will make its decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25353	Thank you. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčević and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25354	In Articles 2 to 22, we also spoke in the principle debate, and Article 22 regulates those proceedings before the Commission which until the date of entry into force of this law have not been completed, and will continue under the provisions of this law. But then in paragraph 2, we say that it does not apply to determining the dominant position and the obsolescence of the protection measures against competition. It means you'll be subject to the rule of the old law. We believe that not all procedures should apply the provisions of the new law, because the most significant amendments have just been made and what we have been saying in the principle debate and today in order to determine the dominant position and this protection of limitations, and so that we believe that attitude 2 should be deleted, that all procedures that are under way should continue to be considered under this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25355	Thank you. A group of 65 MPs from the SNS group submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development and Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's just that I have to report on this amendment to Article 22. It's a bill of law. Namely, a group of 65 SNS MPs added two other positions to their amendment in Article 22, and says the position – the president of the National Assembly, within a month of the entry into force of this law, will announce a public competition for the selection of the Commission's authorities and others, to the chairman of the commission and members of the Council who are in office at the time of entry into force of this law, ceases their mandate by selecting new authorities based on the competitions and attitudes of the 3rd member. Why, I just have to ask you, Mr. Minister, and the board, too, is, uh, a link to Article 23, basic, the law is Article 24? Article 23 has not changed the position it says – the selection of the Commission's body is carried out in a public competition advertised by the President of the National Assembly no later than three months before the end of the term of office of the President of the Commission and the members of the Council, i.e. immediately upon termination or resolution within the meaning of Article 24 of the Law. Article 24 says -- the president of the commission, members of the council are elected to a five-year term with the possibility of a reelection. The term of office of the President and of the members of the Council shall cease over time to which they have been chosen by a resolution for the reasons laid down in the law, the exercise of legal or factual reasons for the inability to perform their duties, means pension, retirement, loss of business capacity, difficult health, the presence of the reasons for the termination of the term of office referred to in points 1 and 3 of Article 1 of this Article shall be determined by the relevant assembly committee. The National Assembly shall authorise the President of the Commission, or a member of the Council, on a proposal from the Council or the relevant assembly committee. If, under one, it is reliably established that the data referred to in the application are incorrect, or incomplete in terms of leaving out information that would significantly reduce the possibility of a choice and two, the circumstances of Article 27 of this Act and three, gross violations of the provisions of this law and the reputation of the Commission in public, this point has suffered an amendment or an ethical code. So, and in the principle debate, we said the DSS made a clear remark on the successful and quality work of this competition commission. We're not satisfied, of course, which, you said a little before, it's obvious that these two attitudes, which are inserted by Article 22, are going in that direction that as soon as within a month, this complete staff of the Competition Protection Commission is changing, but I'm simply asking you, what's going to happen to the violation of Articles 23 and 24 of the basic law that hasn't gone into alterations and additions? What else was I going to ask you? Will this first of all be a violation of the laws of those members that I have listed here?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25357	The word has Minister Ljajic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25358	This is the change that followed the change in the composition of committee members, as you know that we have defined in a member of the law that there should be at least two economists in addition to lawyers, and therefore, because of the change in structure, because of the change in the profile of members of the Council, we have had to introduce this provision that would meet the realisation of that provision that we have amended. As for the members of the law you mentioned, they remain part of the legal solution and this provision applies only to the specific situation, which now concerns the election of members of the Council of the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25359	Replica Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25360	Let me say that I can accept your argument in part, although I think that it should stand somewhere in this proposal and in these amendments what is specifically referred to, and that these two members of the basic law remain in force. Just one more, I wanted to mention it a little while ago, but here I am. Why wasn't this amendment a proposal for a new Article 23 after Article 22? It's just illogical for this matter now being treated by these two attitudes proposed by colleagues from the SNS to somehow not logically connect to Article 22, which we have talked about and had our amendment. Well, that's one of the objections. They don't have the touch points of these two substances in the same article. It would have been more logical if it had been Article 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-29-0.u25361	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and detail. Dear People's MPs, I thank you for your work today. We finish our work and continue on Thursday 31 October 2013 at 11.00 hours. Thank you.
