ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12195	Thank you, Madam Chairman, fellow Members, for asking the Ministry of Education, in fact, from the Ministry of Education, how many classes will be abolished in primary schools throughout the Republic of Serbia this year? That question led me to believe that public information had come out that classes that do not have 15 students were abolished in all environments. So I ask the Ministry of Education for information on the number of classes in Serbian, which have fewer than 15 students and the number of such departments in the languages of national communities throughout the Republic of Serbia? I'm also interested in how many classes were shut down last year, in fact in September of this school year, what is the number in Vojvodina and how many in Serbia have been abolished? We know that over the last few years, about 1,500 departments have been missing and that there are 1,000 students in the last few years. Last September there were 3,533 registered eights, and only in 2000, 995 champions. The most shut down departments were, which are called outed wards and are now being told in the media that they will be shut down about 2,300 classes, which I really care if that information is correct. The reform in education will be difficult, but I think in the strategy and education that is now on the agenda in the public debate, I think a great deal of attention should be paid, in fact, to this reduced number of students and I'm interested in how much class will really be abolished?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12196	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I ask the question, i.e. I address first of all, the Ministry of Health directly to Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, expecting to undertake certain legal changes and changes to the Law on breast cancer. The issue was initiated by several breast cancer associations, as well as formerly treated patients of this severe malignancies. In Serbia, about 4,500 thousand new cases of breast cancer are diagnosed each year. Mortality is also at a high rate, about 6,000 a year. Women who are struggling with this severe malignant disease are, above all, in a difficult psychological situation, going through their own personal and medical drama, but what we as a society have an obligation to do, it is to make it easier for them in every place and every step of their struggle. The material expenditures that are accompanied by this severe disease are really great. They often overcome their opportunities, and we must be aware that women who are struggling with this disease are either retired, premature or regular, or supported by faces. Every spending is for them at this point special stress. The understanding and support of the entire society is very important, but support, assistance, understanding and concrete steps of the ministry are necessary. First of all, what is addressed to the Ministry of Health and what is a request and a request, it is to amend Article 30. Medical technical assistance regulations. In Article 30 of that Regulation, it would be necessary to add, in accordance with Article 1(2), a position which would add a second position to the provided female person who is entitled to an external prosthesis on the breast, and would increase that right to the belonging of an orthopedic bra annually. In particular, the list would be assisted by an orthopaedic bra, an external prosthetic for the breast, an indication, a secure face of the female sex with complete breast amputation. It would be prescribed by the chosen doctor, based on the release list, and the prescription form would be the same as the one prescribed by the external breast prosthesis. The price of this has helped the market of about 3,000 dinars, and I have already mentioned it to women who are struggling with this severe illness, or pensioners or supported persons, for them the item is large, because it is only one of the items that monitors their daily expenditures. So social security and insurance would, indeed, have in financial terms a small step, and a great help and support for this group of patients. In order to make it clearer and perhaps to make this problem closer to the ministry, I will point out that the situation in the environment for these patients is far more favourable. In Croatia, Slovenia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, women are allowed in Macedonia to get except orthopedic bras and compression sleeves and wigs and some other helpers. So these are countries in an environment that have a similar social situation as we do, if not worse. They're not richer societies than we are, but it's obvious that in some sense they've found ways to be at least somewhat more understanding for these patients. So our proposal is to try to get close to them anyway. Also, there is another injustice that seems to these patients. Serbia's military insurance companies are entitled to both an orthopedic bra and a compression sleeve and a wig. So, what they are, are my two questions to the Ministry of Health and Ministers of Health – is it also when the Ministry of Health can approach the amendment of this member, Article 30 in the Regulation of orthopedic aids in the proposed way and why does the Ministry of Health not try to equate civil and military insurance in this right? We expect the Ministry of Health to do something concrete and very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12198	Thank you. I would like to delete the list of Members of Parliament, since there are fewer parliamentary groups that have been declared to ask questions, so I would like to ask you to re-apply. Mr. Chiquiriz, just sign in, since you're up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12199	Madam Vice-President, I would ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we get answers to the parliamentary question within a certain time, because the questions we ask are not only of importance to the MP who asks, but they are also important to society as a whole, or to certain social groups. Namely, I have not yet received, although deadlines have expired, the answers to the parliamentary questions I have asked this congregation. The first question, which I didn't get an answer to, is the question of paying off war damage from fascist Germany. For the last time, the government of the Republic of Serbia has formed a commission to determine the level of war damage, whether war damage has been paid, etc. The commission's mandate expired in 2010. My question was – is the government planning to form a new commission? Then, is there an agreement between Tito-Vili Brant, which was concluded in 1973 or 1974? Is this agreement a state secret? Is it true that according to that agreement, the SFRJ then charged about a billion breast - marks in the name of war damage? Is the issue of war damage between the two countries finally closed or is it only one piece of war damage that is estimated to have been done at the premises of the former Yugoslavia somewhere between $150 billion and $200 billion? Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia determine all these circumstances? If it's a state secret, then that's what we and all those who expect to pay off the war damage. Unofficially, according to various sources, only one part of the war damage was charged, and at the time there was a so-called. well-being, but the agreement also covered the issues of extra labour. When Joseph Broz Tito opened a communist paradise and gave workers the opportunity to get out of their country's borders, most of them ended up in France, Germany, Italy, Great Britain, in today's EU member states. The second question, which I did not get an answer from the Ministry of Education, Education and Science - who is stopping the construction of a stem cell bank in Kragujevac, since the town of Kragujevac has provided the location, all the necessary permits, that the project of the construction of the stem cell bank has passed both our and global expertise, that the appropriations have been granted by both the World Bank and that the state is just because the parent cell bank has not yet been built at an annual level of between four and eight million euros? Also, I did not get an answer to the question from the prime minister and interior minister, as he received a year and a half ago two Roma from Vrsac who were harassed by police officers at the Vrsac police station, that these police officers were suspended, suffered legal consequences despite the fact that Roma later on, according to press sources, continued to commit violations and thefts, which is why they were suspected. My question was – was it a marketing move by the police minister or was it a genuine democratic move in terms of rehabilitating all victims of police violence? Since the video was seen by the police minister on the YOUTUBE network, my question was – did he review other police behaviour footage, particularly in the 1990-2000 period, when Serbian citizens were beaten across Serbia, because they were fighting for Serbia in the EU? Will they also visit the families of victims killed from the Ibar highway, the family of Zoran Djindjic and the family of Ivan Stambolic, who were found killed by the state, or special police units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12200	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12201	Madam Chairman, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Minister Zarko Obradovic, and it concerns the further work and functioning of the "Nuclear Objects of Serbia", which has been seriously questioned at the moment. I will remind you that this public enterprise was founded in 2009 and is the founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This company is active in general terms, which is the management of nuclear facilities and radioactive waste. However, at this point, all this has been brought into serious question, as this company as the only authorised organisation for all these activities does not have the budget resources for normal work, since it has not yet been approved of the 2013 business plan. Also, the legal obligation of founders under the new Law on Public Enterprises has not been carried out, which is to bring the founding act into line with the provisions of the laws. If this issue is not resolved very quickly and there is no regular corporate financing, the consequences for all of us can be fatal. This is, above all, the inability to provide nuclear facilities and their environment, the inability to monitor nuclear facilities, the loss of nuclear activity license and the newly built X3 hangar, the inability to collect transport and temporary storage of radioactive waste, the loss of ISO 9001 and ISO 17025 accreditation, the loss of about five and a half million euros in IPA projects, the international commitments towards the EU and the International Atomic Energy Agency. What is particularly important is the situation of inability and control of the level of radiation of employees, not to mention the social economic situation of employees, which is significantly worsened, and this in itself can seriously affect nuclear security. So I ask the question – why are no funds allocated from the budget for the work of the public company "Nuclear facilities of Serbia" in 2013? Why does the competent ministry not fulfil its legal obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12202	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12203	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to give a little notice and draw attention to a little action that's being held today. Today, millions of people around the world will stand up in support of the fight against violence against women. The good news is that Montenegro's parliament supported the action yesterday and that parliamentarians and parliamentarians of Montenegro have joined this dance in the Montenegrin Parliament. I want to draw attention to the fact that violence against women is very widespread not only in the world, but also in Serbia. In the world, every third woman experiences some form of violence. In Serbia, unfortunately, the data is even harder. Every other woman is exposed to some form of violence. The most common is mental violence, about 46% of women are exposed to psychological violence. Mental violence is the kind of violence that destroys identity, the integrity of women who affect her self-esteem, which affects the whole family and which, unfortunately, affects the whole society, because such women are completely excluded from all social flows. Not to mention a combination of physical and psychological violence, which is exposed to 17% of women, or to severe physical violence exposed to 12% of women. In Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, 46 women were killed last year. Twenty-seven deaths of women are linked directly to domestic violence. I think this is the data that needs to get us up on our feet not just today, but every day in an active fight against violence against women. That is why I call on you today, when we are not already our neighbours from Montenegro, to organise some action in parliament, and once again to congratulate them on that, I invite you to join together today the "billion people in the world dances against violence against women" action that will be held in Belgrade today, in the larger number we respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12204	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12205	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, on the matter I'm going to speak of, ask the government for a notice, so let him know who can. It is, in fact, the way the public is informed about the talks, the dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija. This way of informing and informing is selective, and sometimes subject to counterfeiting. We have a constant situation today that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are trying to prevent an agreement on borders, to prevent customs and police officers from coming from Pristina and to ask a little bit of questions or to ask many who do not know what the real reason is, or to pretend that they do not know why they are preventing a normal process that has come under Belgrade and Pristina's agreement. They know exactly what it is, and it seems that the public of Serbia does not know what it is, so neither does this parliament nor the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I'll give you an example. On January 17th or 18th and 19th, we learned that the Customs Working Group had completed some of its work and that a way of doing technical customs duties was done and that goods which would not be customsated, those arriving in northern Kosovo, would be collected from there into a special account to be opened in a foreign bank. In parallel with our representatives' notifications, Hashim Thaci himself said it was actually the Kosovo Development Fund and that the VAT and excise duties collected on Jarinj and Brnjak, as far as the goods going only north of Kosovo are concerned, would go into payment to the Development Fund, which was denied on our part. It was said that it was actually some kind of internal propaganda of his and trying to show that the Pristina side here got what it wanted. But what is important, we did not see this document, nor did any journalist interpret it, nor did anyone here in Parliament have any comment on it. The Kosovo and Metohija committee did not have the document. Since I obtained it in the meantime, I can simply say in the public opinion of Serbia that what was our side's information is, in fact, one forgeries and one forgeries of real agreements. It's exactly what Hashim Thaci said. On that paper, it is clear that customs duties, i.e. VAT, excise duties and other charges collected on Brnjak and Jarinj, that they will be invested in a special development fund. The development fund will open an account in a Pristina commercial bank and will therefore fund four municipalities, or accelerate the development of four municipalities in northern Kosovo. I must draw your attention that the Kosovo Constitution Development Fund is the Kosovo Constitution, as well as Marty Ahtisaari's plan. It's a special fund, as every country has, from which the weaker parts of the country will be financed. When the customs agreement took place, a Solomonian solution was found to satisfy Pristina too, i.e. its constitution and Serbs, of course, because they will get some of these customs, although, and that is most important, our public has not been properly informed about it. So, here I present one disdain, given the attempt to misinformation the public about it and the attempt to, regardless of the Constitution of Serbia, make another agreement on our positive documents on Kosovo, etc., in which some of the institutions of the self-proclaimed independent state of Kosovo will be affirmed, in this case a newly created development fund. People in Kosovo are well aware of this, and they are protesting. We have less and less information about this here. It's simple, and it wants our public to die and drown in their protests, so the job will be eventually brought to an end. The Prime Minister goes on 19th and 20th to discuss the so-called In northern Kosovo, an arrangement on the Serb municipalities community, although Serbs from Kosovo had a community of Serb municipalities, which the previous government had demonstrated by not allowing elections for local authorities, and now asks Thaci to re-establish a Serb municipality community. So it's all about proper information at this point. What we can do can only be done thanks to the truth we know, what's going on, and that's why I'm asking for this notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12206	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12207	The Honorable Chairman, I have one question or request for a notice to the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Trade. Namely, the advertising law was passed in 2005. It's a year before the competition was actually announced and before the broadcast frequencies were allocated. So in 2005, Serbia in fact had no legal broadcasters in broadcasting. Starting from that fact, it is logical that there have been significant errors in this law, that there have been imbalances between different forms of property. This is not unknown because both the OSCE and the EU have asked for the new law to be done and put into practice. A working group was formed in 2010 in the then Ministry of Trade, which was part of the Ministry of Agriculture or better to say a single ministry. At the end of 2010, there was also a public debate involving both advertisers and broadcasters. There were several emergency sessions, gatherings in the Chamber of Commerce. The public debate was to be completed urgently by the end of December 27th 2010, so that the law would enter into the procedure both towards the government and parliament in January 2011. In the meantime, there was no change in the ministry. That doesn't interest me, of course, but by changing the minister we seem to be changing politics, so then the new minister had other priorities probably in this second sector, agriculture, and in the area of trade he didn't deal with. We didn't get that law in the process until today. Meanwhile, on 6 October 2011, the Constitutional Court asked the Serbian Assembly for its 35th session to declare several disputed members who in fact lead to imbalances of economic operators on the market, depending on the ownership structure. In fact, in fact, in 2005 we only had RTS, we didn't have a Media Public Service. It's better to say, the law has been passed, but it hasn't come into effect yet. Starting with all these illogicalities that took place in the meantime, the Constitutional Court has asked the Serbian Parliament to declare itself to the disputed members. I have no information that according to these requirements of the Constitutional Court of Parliament, probably because of the fact that the Law was in the procedure, that it was necessary for it to arrive as soon as possible on the agenda of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, including those of the previous Government, and not just these. That's why I'm interested, I think it's even more important when the law on advertising comes here to parliament, before I even ask when we're going to make a statement about the position of the Constitutional Court? Moreover, to be honest, this previous law clearly places different economic operators in an unequal position depending on ownership. I must remind you that even in that communist constitution, as someone calls it, by 1990, it said that they were equal social and private property. And in that socialist of ours, to call it that, as some call it, it was written—it is equal to private and state. It wasn't social anymore, since it was a tendency to disappear. And in this happy town, which we will celebrate tomorrow, it says that equal is private and state property. In this law, it is clearly pointed out and made clear that it is not equal, more specifically, that one number of broadcasters is placed in the same position as a public service, which is, of course, left aside whether there is enough income, that is another question, but there is a secure income and therefore there is a different way of advertising. In the area of advertising, as we know, new technological advertising tools have also appeared. This was not current in 2005, and therefore it was not in the case of this law. All this suggests that it is necessary to get the advertising law here as soon as possible, so I ask the ministry to declare when and within what time it will or whether we will be in the first trimester. Probably in a package of all the laws in the media sphere, this will be on the agenda, and especially since during this media strategy, etc., in every half of our mandates, we bring that solution in the next 18 months, and then there is a change of government, and again 18 months and then in 2005, we had a law that clearly states that local self-government and cities will not be media owners. Eight years have passed, nothing has happened... Time, please. )......................................................................................................... This law is written. Thank you. I'm sorry if I overstepped 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12208	National MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12209	Thank you. It is very nice that the previous speaker asked a question concerning his private firm, but I will ask a question concerning what interests Serbian citizens. I am asking the Ministry of Agriculture, the Serbian Government, the Ministry of Health in particular. As far as the information that we all had yesterday is concerned, it's that of the 300 processed milk samples 272 is completely safe, and at 28, the alphaoxin value is at the limit allowed. It was announced by the Ministry of Agriculture. They didn't say if it was below or above the limit allowed, so this morning I'm not sure the mothers know whether to give that milk to their children or not. I'm asking the Department of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and I'm asking for an urgent answer, how many today to tell us if these 28 samples, that's 10% of the total sampled units are correct for eating or not correct for eating? Whether those who drink milk are at risk of being damaged by their liver or other organs, because alphaoxin according to what we have received as an integral part of the statement is causing cancerous diseases. This morning, we heard some additional information that citizens should not panic, that there is no room for great panic. I quote, therefore, the ministry's representative - there is no room for great panic. What kind of panic could it be? We needed this information to get information, and is that milk going to be withdrawn from the shelves and what products are being treated? Unfortunately, this government does not already apply positive legal regulations, the question is whether competent laboratories, and this is my question for the government, have enough capacity to examine the quality of milk, dairy products, but not only milk and dairy products, but all the life supplies consumed by Serbian citizens. We have also been faced these days with a statement from the Consumers' Association that there is no control of the correctness of the foods that we buy legally. So, legally, we don't tell what's going on on the black market. On the other hand, this is about some kind of cover-up like it was with the correctness or malfunction of the corn. If we had clear answers here, we might not have talked about the suspicious quality of milk today. I'm asking the Ministry for information on the fate of corn that was also said to be toxic. Is it destroyed, is it used to feed cattle, and is it perhaps one of the consequences of this situation that we have with milk? Finally, once again, I ask the Ministry to tell citizens this information urgently today, even if the minister is in the election campaign, I would ask him to address this issue today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12210	You've reached out to the replica, but I can't give you a replica because this isn't a debate. (Zoran Angelkovic, from the post: I report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) You can't get a word in, because this is a question before the debate. So, since we haven't opened the debate, you can't do it on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. You don't even have the right to seek damage to the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can be advertised during the duration of the debate. Since this is extremely based on article 287, I'm just asking questions before the debate opens, although I understand your motives, I'm not able to give you my word. The Rules of Procedure allow it. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12211	Thank you, Mr. President. My question today was addressed to the Minister of Justice and the State Administration. It's quite simple. When and how will the question of newly elected judges be resolved? The High Judicial Council reached a decision on the termination of its post on 30 January 2010 covering 145 judges for violations, on the basis of the same provisions, as well as judges, without the words of reasons and without a lesson on the legal remedy. Until about 50, he made no decision to interrupt the office of judges for violations. After three years of the election, it is clear that the judges for the violations are the only category of election participants who have lost their post, no explanation and no existence whatsoever. In its decision of 17 March 2011, the Constitutional Court found that there was a legal continuity between the law enforcement authorities and the criminal courts and that judges of the criminal courts were doing the same work as judges for the offences. According to the Venice Commission on Justice Provisions and Draft Constitution of the Republic of Serbia No. 349/2005, it is stated that the real choice of the continental European states, where judges are appointed by relatively young and unexperienced lawyers, is usually a period of work, until it is determined whether a judge is really able to continue to carry out his duties effectively. It is obvious that it does not refer to judges for crimes that have been committed for years, and many and decades have done the work that judges of criminal courts are now doing. In its opinion of 3 October 2012, which was addressed to the unselected judges for violations, the Civilian Protector considers that the Constitutional Court was under the obligation, in accordance with Article 5(2) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, to refer cases established on the basis of complaints and constitutional complaints to the High Council of the Court of Justice for decision in the audit procedure. This includes cases of unselected judges for violations. However, he regrets that he has no authority or ability to control the work of the Constitutional Court. Before the Administrative Court, judges disputed the National Assembly's decision to elect judges to the first term of office in the courts of the general and special jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, the number 111 of 2009, and on the proposal of the High Council of the Court of Justice, chaired by Nata Mesarevic in office as the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, whose election was carried out by the provisions of the Law on Judges, which was announced by the unconstitutional, recent decision of the Constitutional Court of 20 December 2012. Unselected judges for violations, the only participants in the general election for the holders of judicial functions, who lost their jobs and fees and under which the greatest injustice was committed and would be appointed candidates for judges who, by amending the Law on Judges, are now brought to permanent court office in that election. Unselected judges and prosecutors were returned to work, and long unselected candidates for the first term remained at work before the elections. Only the judges for the offenses have been disproved and no one solves this problem. Due to the unreasonable period of trial and the lack of legal remedy for the termination of office, most unselected judges have submitted their statements to the European Court of Human Rights. When and what legal framework will return to the former state of the unselected judges for violations and remove injustice to the unlawfully resolved judges for violations, by failing to choose the most contentious choice of judicial officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12212	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word, or any of the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Donka Banović, Branko Ružic, Maja Gojkovic, Mladen Grujic and Vladimir Marinkovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, in addition to the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration and member of the High Council of the Judiciary, to attend: Mirjana Ivic, Deputy President of the High Council of the Judiciary and Miroljub Tomic, Sonja Vidanović and Aleksandar Stoiljkovski, election members of the High Council of Judges. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on points 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 192 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 92(3) but with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision to suspend the position of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, a proposal for a decision to resolve the members of the National Council for Culture, a proposal for a decision to determine the composition of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council 1325, the Women, Peace and Security Council in the Republic of Serbia, and a proposal for a decision to amend the decision to elect members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do they want the word of the promoter's representatives? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12213	Dear Mr. Chairman, President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am addressing the National Assembly and you as Minister of Justice and State Administration of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a member of the position of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia made a decision on 20 December 2012 establishing that the provision of Article 102(5) of the Republic of Serbia had been laid down. The law on judges provisions that do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly prescribes in its 144th article the choice of the president of the highest court in the Republic of Serbia, that is, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The reminders, for the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, require a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary and a general session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the National Assembly's competent board. The National Assembly itself conducts the election procedure. Also, the Law on the National Assembly in Article 15, paragraph 3, when it comes to electoral powers, i.e. the electoral powers of the National Assembly, states that the National Assembly is electing to act and deciding on the termination of the office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 30 November 2009, applying a smaller provision of Article 102(5). The law on judges has reached a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In light of its decision, the Constitutional Court says that this is how the unity of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia is threatened. I am using this opportunity to say that in our country in a longer period of time, unfortunately there is one circumstance in legislative practice, which is that the issues that are explicitly regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are equally regulated by its laws, therefore, prescribed by the laws. Where it is explicitly clear that the Constitution should be applied, no identical provision should be prescribed in the law. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in one kind and legal indifference. We have come to the situation that the National Assembly is discussing the Constitutional Court's decision, which is certainly legally illogical, but it is the only legal path that has legal basis for implementation. Our positive regulations do not speak a single word about what to do in the event that one of the three highest functions in the country has been chosen in a manner contrary to the Constitution, and in this case we are in such a legal situation. The question of the ID of the High Council of the judiciary was also raised from some lines, that is, whether the High Council of the judiciary was able to propose such a decision to the National Assembly. It is necessary to read a little more of the rules and to see that this is the only way that is legally possible and legally valid. I mentioned Article 15(2) of the Law on the National Assembly, which speaks of its competences on the choice of office and the decision to terminate office. I will also mention Article 202. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says and explicitly prescribes that, when a decision is taken to terminate office, including the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, an identical procedure is applied as well as when making a decision on the choice of office. It is absolutely clear from this that the legal path to be followed in the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court should also be followed in the event of a decision on the termination of that function. This should also include the basis laid down in the Law on Judges. In Article 79(7), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Law on Judges states that it is the National Assembly that decides to suspend the office of President of the Supreme Cassation Court and is said to be – for other reasons. These other reasons are all the reasons that are not a resolution, since in the previous positions of this Member of the Law on Judges, the reasons for the resolution and how the discharge procedure is carried out are stated. Since the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are a kind of procedural law that regulates the procedure for the adoption of all other laws, as well as other competences of the National Assembly, and in this case, its electoral powers. On the basis of Articles 202a, as regards Articles 200 and 201. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the Whisky Council of the Judiciary, is a body that has had the legitimacy and the right to propose a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I am also taking this opportunity to say that it is currently the sole function of the President of the Court of Justice in the entire state of Serbia where we have a president rather than an acting president and that the procedure for the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At the National Assembly, to remove such a diminishing legal situation, by making a decision on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, thus creating conditions to carry out the procedure for electing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in the manner provided for by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12214	The word is Mrs Popovic, according to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12215	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Normally, I advertise Article 128. We also heard from Mr. Minister of Justice and State Administration a moment ago as much as the Constitution and the law are respected in this country. After all, today we have also met for this very reason, to prove the respect of the Constitution and the respect of the laws. How is this respected when parliament is being respected by Parliament's president, or chairing a constant breach of the Rules of Procedure, allowing cards to simply be left behind and forgotten by MPs, and to be contrary to Article 128. Rules of Procedure. Today we are meeting here to discuss the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Today they all came here, and a representative of the promoter, and a minister of justice, and members of the High Council of the judiciary came, there is not only Mrs Mesarovic, the current president of the Supreme Cassation Court and the High Council of the judiciary. So this is what Serbia looks like -- selective application of the Constitution, selective application of the law. (President: Mrs. Judith, what you are talking about right now, has nothing to do with Article 128.) Therefore, Article 128, I would ask that you respond on the basis of this advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12216	I ask professional services to take care of the cards and take the cards out of the parliamentary units where the MPs sit. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic, as a proposing representative. Here you go. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12217	Thank you, Madam Vice President, and I apologize to Mr Stefanovic. I'm advertising Article 107. I think that the minister of justice, Mr Selakovic, offends parliament and that his performance is in fact a set of lies that humiliate everyone, regardless of the political differences that exist here between us. Mr. Minister, we have before us the laws and decisions that have been made. No argument you have offered as an argument justifying the request for the replacement of Nate Mesarovic is correct. Not a single one. The Constitutional Court didn't ask for this session. The Constitutional Court did not request the removal of the President of the High Council of the Judiciary. It's not true that there are any legal illogicalities. The Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution are very precise. All you said was false. Don't make yourself into someone who's the only one who can bring candy from The Hague. We can politically disagree, but be a politician with character, or let Oliver Antic sit down, since you're the performer of his orders. That's what to say. Please, Madam Vice President, this is a very important question for us. For us, this isn't just an execution. From what we're doing right now, we're getting an argument that speaks to the character of the current government. This fully denies the elemental postulate of normal society, which is the equality of legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Equality. And she's not here if the minister of justice here doesn't even have the courage to say that he launched an initiative before the High Council of the Judiciary for the Change of Nate Mesarovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12218	Time. I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Selakovic can't break the Rules of Procedure. You can only advertise the Rules of Procedure and the violation of the Rules of Procedure according to the chairmanship of the Assembly. Yet you used this time to hurt the Rules of Procedure to talk about your political position. If, however, you consider it necessary to vote in the day of voting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we will certainly do so. All right, in voting day, we'll make a statement about your injury to the Rules of Procedure. The floor has a representative of the proposal Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman should have warned the previous two speakers because they were insulting and insulting, and that is because it is not the case here for the resolution of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, but for the procedure for eliminating the legal consequences of an unconstitutional decision in the Law on Judges. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic throws out of town. I hope someone else heard what Mr. Jovanovic said, and I'm ashamed to say it again. When it comes to the Constitution, it's our highest legal act. The Constitutional Court does not have to demand that his decision be executed, but that we have a obligation, based on the Constitution and Article 104. The Law on the Constitution of the Court, which unequivocally states that all state and other bodies are obliged to respect and enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court. There is no place here to resolve anyone here, but to remove the consequences of an unconstitutional act, Article 102, paragraph 5. The law on judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12220	The word has been made by MP Judita Popovic, according to his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12221	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Unfortunately, I have to advertise Article 128 again. The president of the SNS Group speaks, next to him sits the deputy, and next to the deputy is an empty seat and sits the card... (President: Mrs Popovic, you heard me call on professional services to take care of it. We're not gonna talk about this on the same subject all day. I'm sorry, but you've obviously been planning on breaking the Rules of Procedure all day...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12222	Please, you can't advertise the same member of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Anyone else want to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a representative of the Proposer. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12223	With all due respect for the point discussed by Minister Selakovic and which will obviously have an important debate during today, I did not want to see point 11 of the agenda, which relates to the proposal for a decision to determine the composition of the Commission for the Monitoring and Implementation of the National Action Plan for the application of UN Security Council 1325, Women, Peace and Security in the World, go unnoticed. I think this is an important point, which is important for our Parliament, but also for our society, especially when it comes to gender equality, because I think it should be given a serious importance. The UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 – Women, Peace and Security in October 2000, stressing the consequences armed conflicts have on women, as well as the importance of women, their role in building peace, especially in the country's post-conflict recovery. Resolution 1325 has encouraged many women and men around the world to talk in a different way and to realize that, in fact, they affect the change of perception that only men are dealing with security issues, but that the world's security issue is very successful, even more successful, and women can also be dealt with. Women play an important role in the understanding, prevention and resolution of conflicts as well as in the consolidation of peace, when women are involved in the dialogue of the nature of the talks differently, UNIFEM 2002 studies said. Equality of half the equal opportunities for women and men fall within the basic democratic principles foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other international human rights documents, and I recall that more than 51.3% of the population of the Republic of Serbia represent women. Starting in December 2010, the RS government adopted a National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325. The National Action Plan provides the basis for planning, taking, monitoring, analysis, measures and activities aimed at improving women, i.e. the position of women in the security sector, increasing their impact on issues related to peace and security, greater participation and impact of women in conflict resolution and conflict situations, greater participation of women in multinational operations, the protection of women and girls in goods-based violence and greater participation of women in management posts. I think this is very important for our society that these rights are sometimes ignored, sometimes disrespected, and I think that we as the National Assembly and as a society have to do as much as possible so that these rights never get out of sight. Ensuring more effective implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1325 is something that confirms the RS' intention to actively contribute to peace building and stability and security processes, especially in its region, South-Eastern Europe and Europe, through comprehensive European integration processes and in the world by participating in multinational operations and international peace and security gatherings. One of the objectives foreseen by the National Action Plan is certainly to increase women's impact on defence and security decision-making. The National Assembly has made a contribution to this goal, given that significant participation by women of the MPs has been ensured in this meeting. According to the current state of the total number of MPs, 82 are ladies or 32.93%. As president of the National Assembly, I can tell you that I am not satisfied with that number. I would like that percentage to be at least 50-50%, but that is one goal we will have ahead of us, and I hope that all MP groups will also make a greater contribution to achieving this goal in the future. The National Action Plan has been in effect for a little over two years. What is ahead of us in the next period is to see what has been done so far and to contribute to a stronger and better application in the future. The Commission is one of those institutional mechanisms envisaged by the National Action Plan, in addition to the Political Council and the Multi-Sectoral Coordination Body, which were formed in 2011. The Commission, in the supervisory work for the implementation of the National Action Plan, is tasked with controlling and overseeing the work of all bodies and mechanisms for implementing the National Action Plan. On a regular basis, the Political Council and the Multi-Sectoral Coordination Body submitted a six-month and annual report. The Commission will report on its work to the National Assembly of RS at least once a year. In view of the proposed composition of the commission, which includes representatives of the Committee, which has issues in the field of gender equality, defence, internal affairs, foreign affairs, labour and social policy, the judiciary and the state administration, as well as representatives of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, I am sure that the Commission will contribute significantly to one effective application of the National Action Plan. For these reasons and all that I have said, I ask you to support the election of this committee in the voting day and to show that we are one responsible parliament that will face these problems and that the contribution Serbia must make on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12224	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the motionors want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the committees’ rapporteurs want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Petar Petrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12225	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government took the view at its session, held on Monday 11th of this month, that the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary on the termination of the office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the Law on the selection of judges. Why did the board give this opinion and support the proposal of the High Council of Justice? The only reason is that he appreciated the decision of the most judicial authority in this country of the Constitutional Court, which, by its decision of 20 December last year, number 733/11, found that Article 102(5), paragraph 5. The Law on Judges, on the basis of which the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected in 2009, is not in accordance with Article 144(1). The RS Constitution, which says, for the sake of the public, that the president, in a specific case of the President, can only be elected by the Supreme Cassation Court on the basis of the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary, the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court and the opinion of the relevant Assembly committee. In a specific case, there was no opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, because at that time there was no court. As the National Assembly, we chose the president of an organ that has not yet been formed, which has not yet existed. In public, a lot of talk is being made a month ago about wanting for these or some other reasons, even some arguments that do not have any legal basis in the positive regulations are being used, that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court wants to be resolved or removed. Once again, I would like to point out, as chairman of the Committee, that on the Committee of the High Council of the Judiciary, which I am also a member in office, there was no question at all about the resolution or the replacement of Ms. Mesarovic, because her work on those bodies was not discussed. It was debated and decided only whether or not we wanted to and whether we wanted to respect the decision of the most judicial authority in this country, which is the Constitutional Court. Whether we like it or not, that's our personal question. That court said that the provision of a member, I repeat, the Law on Judges, paragraph 102, paragraph 5 is not in agreement with Article 144(1). For this reason, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has legal consequences, which means the termination of the function of the member of the law has been chosen because it means that it has not been chosen in accordance with the Constitution. What kind of legal practice would it be in this country if we were to play by the decisions of the Constitutional Court of this country and, if we were to say, those judges made such a decision, and we don't have to respect it. The first to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court are the peoples of this country, this assembly. How will we ask other citizens to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court if it is not respected by the MPs and the National Assembly? Therefore, I would ask that this time we do not discuss in this assembly whether the judicial reform was done well, whether it gave some good, bad or less bad results, whether Mrs Mesarovic was doing well or not. Here we are talking, and all we have to do is stick to it, say and accept that Mrs Mesarovic's election decision is unconstitutional, i.e. based on the provision of a law declared unconstitutional. That's all we need to talk about, because that's the only way we're going to stay in the legal field and deal with legal issues. I repeat and conclude once again that the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has given the opinion that it supports the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary and proposes to the MPs in the National Assembly to decide on the termination of the post of Mrs Mesarovic with the date of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12226	National MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12227	Mr. President, I believe that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and, in that sense, I consider him to be a injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure, precisely because of what my predecessor here has said, and the fact is that, with regard to the consent of the draft decision with the legal system, not with the Constitution, only the legal system was declared by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, and it was not stated whether it was in agreement with the Constitution or not. True, at that session of the Committee, I proposed not to discuss this, and I suggested that the Committee assess that this is not in line with the legal system. On the other hand, on the work of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, I think it is okay for the President of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, and not for some other matters that are within the jurisdiction of other committees. The fact is that when the president of the Committee said - I suggest we adopt the next report, reading the report, because I insisted that the report be read. I asked after that to get my word and to point out what was wrong with that report text. At the very session of the Justice Committee, I was not given the floor to comment on the final text of the report. As a result, a report by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government came out here before the tide without being able to place any objections to the text of the report and that the Committee itself is to be declared. It's an illustration of everything that's been done on the Justice Committee. In that sense, there are witnesses from the Committee's session. I hope there are stenogram notes, but in any case, it's not exactly what the predecessor said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12228	Since I wasn't present at the session, I really can't say what you said. What I have to ask you and everyone else is that, in fact, we don't use the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because we really have enough time for all the parliamentary groups to enter into the debate during the session. What you have stated as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I certainly cannot say about it, because you are stating something that happened at the Committee's session. So, since I haven't been present, I can't make myself known at this session about what's going on with the Committee's session. That's just impossible. But I would certainly like to put your proposal to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you consider the Rules of Procedure to be injured. So, I don't think so. I understand. Mr. Jovanovic, were you in the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12229	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to call, as well as my colleague Mikovic, on article 107. Rules of Procedure. I agree that there are political differences between us, but I don't think you expect and that you can't expect from our parliamentary group to go over the untrue arguments offered here as an explanation for the procedure behind which the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly stood up. Perhaps Mr. President of the Committee believes in his legal practice and experience, but Mr. President, you've brought forth a whole series of lies. We cannot discuss the termination of the post of President Mesarevic, even if you want to, because there are reasons for stopping the president. One of them is a solution. It could be a shift, it could be a request, it could be a resignation. There's no reason to stop function, and you're asking us to talk about it. There are all others, but not legal arguments for something like that. There is also a handful of political ones and we can talk about it, but legal arguments must be based on the law. By law, Mr. President of the Justice Committee. That's why we're so strong. Not that we're here for 200, but what we're doing, we're doing based on the law, and don't offer false arguments, or untrue, I apologize. Look at the political ones and bring your president here. A symbol of respect for the law of law and justice. And let everyone else come and talk about it in political arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12230	The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12231	I would have the right to two replicas, but I will try in one to answer the question, namely Mr. Mikovic's remarks, for the sake of clarity and truth. The Justice Committee is sitting in the presence of 12 members. The board's opinion was accepted by nine board members, and three were against it. So much for whether the other board members were familiar with the opinion or not. Most people do. If we respect democratic principles, we will have to respect the view of the majority. As to whether I speak here with legal or not legal arguments, if, Mr. Jovanovic, the legal argument is what was done to the VSS and the Justice Committee, it is not the decision of the most judicial authority in this country, the Constitutional Court. Let me, I really don't know what other and stronger argument this would be without us talking about that Article 102 point 5, on the basis of which the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected, is not a legal argument, because it is not in accordance and is not in line with Article 144 paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know why you're talking about what other arguments are, whether they're being defended or for those or for these reasons, it's not my place to decide, and by the way, I don't know why you're talking about the president. I don't know which president you were referring to. If you were thinking of President Palm, when he's here, if you have the courage, then come out with the arguments, don't talk about a man who's not here. Besides, Mr. Jovanovic, you're no match for Palmi's knee and you can't carry water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12232	The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12233	First, if I had the opportunity to explain what was wrong with this report, I suppose, with regard to the proposed report by the chairman of the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government Committee, I would assume that the members of the Committee would accept my opinion and that a completely different report would come to fruition. The fact is, in Article 57. The Law on Judges in Chapter Four clearly lays down all the reasons for the termination of the judicial post. It says, "The judge's office ceases at the request of the judge," it is not, "when the judge has completed his work century", it can be, "when he permanently performs his capacity to perform his duties, in those who are first elected, when he is not elected to permanent office and when he is resolved". There are absolutely only two reasons for the judge's term of office to be terminated, and thus the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is when the judge ends his working life or loses his capacity to perform his duties permanently. I don't think there's one or the other. Another thing, if, and you will see this when we determine the termination of a judicial office or prosecutorial office, for any individual declared by the National Assembly, is the Proposer of all these decisions is the Committee on Justice, whether or not someone has concluded that the conditions have been met, but the proposed committee is the Assembly. It can't be VSS, it can't be any other institution. That's why I wanted to point out to the chairman of the Justice Committee that if anyone has to propose, that's exactly why that committee should propose, but I didn't get the word, because it's obviously threatening that if someone says something different, it bothers them. I don't mean to disturb you, but I'm asking that the Constitution and the law be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12234	The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12235	Article 107(2) has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Stefanovic, you did not mention in any other way that Mr. Petrovic was referring to other MPs with offensive expressions, and above all to MP Dragan Markovic Palm, whom he mentioned, alluding to Mr. Palma's height, if he spoke about the president of his party. Palma is usually a tree and I don't think it has any knees or anything else, but I realized Mr. Petrovic is talking about the president of his party. Another kind of offensive behaviour by Mr Petrovic is the fundamental ignorance of the country's legal and constitutional order. So, the Constitutional Court is not the highest court in this country, the highest court in this country is the Supreme Cassation Court and we are discussing it today, as well as its president. The Constitutional Court is a different kind of state body and it does not enter into this kind of organisation of the courts, i.e. the judiciary, to which Mr Petrovic refers. Since this is, of course, a political authority and is not necessary or impossible to introduce any test or test of knowledge that someone would be the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr Petrovic, of course, if he has a parliamentary majority behind him for such a thing and for that position, he can stay in that place, I have no objection, but I ask that you at least take care of it and that in the presence of these people, who are still serious experts in my field, I exclude in this sense Mr Selakovic, he is not here as an expert, but as a minister, make sure that the dignity of this home is respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12236	I would certainly ask all MPs to take care of Parliament's dignity during the session. I give the word to Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12237	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mikovic, I'm surprised that you, who are a good lawyer, who is all momentous, studioly and well considered and often constructively participates in the work of the National Assembly, confused apples and pears, as the people say, in one thing. No one here is talking about the end of the judge's office. If the National Assembly decides to suspend the office of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, it remains the judge of that court. But there seems to be something else here. Let's make a parallel that's completely manual. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, imagine that the President of the National Assembly has been elected before each of you sitting here. Therefore, someone has chosen for you the President of the National Assembly, and then he has chosen the MPs, and before that, the previous assembly of the Assembly has passed such a law that is possible, and under the Constitution such a thing is not possible. The Constitutional Court in its decision made it very clear. He was clear and said that the provision, based on which the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected, was declared unconstitutional. Whoever's in that position, any of you here, the procedure would have to be like this. There's no room here for any personalization, which seems to be more difficult, but it's about acting according to the Constitutional Court's decision. Let me get back to what I just said. So, no one stops the judge's office, but you take a nice look at it in Article 79, which we call on, where it's about the decision to terminate the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. When someone stops the office of the Supreme Cassation Court, if it didn't happen for other reasons that are listed here, say retirement, such a person remains the judge of that court. Unfortunately, something has happened in Serbia that is not happening in other countries. Such a law has been passed and, in the light of its decision, the Constitutional Court has made it very clear – the legislative authority of the authorities has exceeded its powers by prescribing such a provision that one can choose for the President of the Court at the time when there are no elected judges of that court, by jumping out of those powers prescribed by the Constitution. A few minutes ago, someone threw it away – why don't we make a decision by changing the law? Well, in what law do transitional and final provisions change? That's why I'm telling you and I, but the Constitutional Law doesn't provide any basis for the adoption of such a member of the law. Obviously, the legislator wanted to provide for the first election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, but in that case he had to be bound by the Constitution, if the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution did not regulate the issue otherwise, and did not regulate it. Please, whoever says we're not telling the truth, that we don't legally support this proposal, sit down and read a few provisions of the law, let him see that there is absolute legitimacy. If the High Council of the Court has had legitimacy, obligation and the right to propose someone for the office of the President of the Court, it cannot be disputed, especially when the law is prescribed as an obligation and it is the right to take part in proposing a decision on termination of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12238	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12239	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this session is going to last and it should last because this is actually an opportunity for our society. I can only say once again that I am sorry that those behind this initiative did not come here, and that is not you as Minister Selakovic. This initiative was launched by Vladimir Cvian, asking the Constitutional Court to assess a member of the law under which we are discussing today. Then you, as minister, made an effort in the typical relationship you have established with the Constitutional Court to provide a legal execution due to the political disadvantage of President Mesarevic. Mr Minister, anyone who has been injured by the right to a final or judicial individual act adopted under a legal provision declared unconstitutional shall have the right to request an amendment of that act from the competent authority. What right of yours has been violated? You asked for it. Do you know who you were looking for? From Constitutional Court President Slepcevic, who questions what is happening to the DSS initiative on the assessment of the constitutionality of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, which redefines the situation of Kosovo and Metohija within the constitutional order of the country, says he has decided to stand in the decision-making process on your application. Is this the Constitutional Court, President of the Committee, Petrovic, before whom we should kneel? Is that the Constitutional Court that we came to by saying to the MPs at the meeting in the Chamber of Presidents – half Tadic will, half will Kostunica, and we, in Tadic's quota, should seek our judges and you radicals then in Kostunica's quota? It's that Constitutional Court. You keep telling the truth. There's no basis for launching the procedure you started here in the Assembly, it's not in the law. Read a member of the law on which you build your right. There's as much politics as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12240	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12241	Mr. Jovanovic, you're doing a lot better than right anyway. LDP's are insolent. Can you wait till I say nice... Nenad Milic, from the place, you insult the Messengers. The apostle insults me all the time by saying that I am telling the truth, and he himself is telling the truth, and I have the right to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12242	I beg you for peace in the O.R., this is a debate in parliament. So, from the first moment in this debate, all the participants were in such a tone that was always on the edge. I have allowed the debate to run with arguments, and I am pleased that here are the arguments which are related to the right, but only to ask the MPs, and of course the minister, that we are all in our debates following the proper rules of conduct in this House, so that we do not come to this debate in accordance with the violations of Rules of Procedure and Replicas, for longer than we are under discussion on the agenda. I think the National Assembly will show that it really wants to discuss the agenda when it allows the debate to begin on the agenda. We have not yet begun the debate on the agenda, and of course it itself does not affect the dignity of the National Assembly. Please, when the minister is finished, or anyway, let's finish this cycle of replicas because we can do this by the day after tomorrow, start discussing the agenda. All parliamentary groups have enough time to express their political opinion, their views and continue to work. Excuse me, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12243	I will not comment at all on any decision by the Constitutional Court, and it is very good when speaking to a wide crowd of Serbian citizens, to speak the truth, not the half-truth. I ask no one in the Constitutional Court for anything, but I use my legal authority to initiate some procedure or request a standstill in some procedure, when there is some basis for it. The Constitutional Court is an extremely serious institution and capable enough to take care of itself. So the Constitutional Court has made a decision. Unfortunately, our regulations do not contain an explicit provision on what to do in a situation where your peak, the head of the judicial authority elected in the Constitution, is prescribed. The most difficult path is chosen. This is the path that is identical to the path, that is, the procedure foreseen for the elections. Whoever doesn't understand, sit down and read. Everyone has a right not to understand. As for the fact that possibly I'm not behind this proposal, I have no problem saying that I was the one who launched the motion initiative, it's nothing secret, you have a high-level council website, you can read it on it. When it comes to an act that has been violated by individual rights, I again ask the question – how would you function in the National Assembly, that the President of the National Assembly has been elected against you in a manner contrary to the Constitution? Then would any of your rights here be violated? If he cannot be chosen first among you according to the Constitution, who can? Who can? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12244	Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Just sign in, you're not in the system. Try again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12245	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Article 116 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, even though you were late to react. Article 116. The Rules of Procedure say that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, as well as provisions of Articles 106 and 107, apply to all other participants in the debate, i.e. in the proceedings of the National Assembly. Minister Selakovic is a participant in this debate and you allowed him to talk about dramaturgy at the National Assembly session, as it is said of a very important agenda point. I'm not even sure that the king of dramaturgy is not in this room right now, Mr. Selakovic. During his entire professional career, apart from being a lawyer or a law historian, he was also trying to be a reciter at these conferences in vocabulary, under the stick, of course, Oliver Antic and other Vetta law schools, so it's trying to do so here now, since he can no longer do so through his performances by throwing out bottles of water, by sharing chocolates or enjoying drinking with meat or cheese convicted Hague indictees. Since this is the National Assembly, I ask you to put only Minister Selakovic in order, he must respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure here. He's neither an assistant nor a professor and can't hold high sermons with elected MPs. He's not that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12246	Mr. Djuric, what you said, citing everything in the last minutes and a half, also does not affect the dignity of the National Assembly. I ask you to choose the words you do when you speak of violations of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not doing this for one or two parliamentary groups, I'm really doing it for the National Assembly. Just by appealing to all the MPs, I'm trying to make sure that people who watch these transmissions don't think that we came here to fight or argue, or to tell each other what they want, but to really advocate that quality and good legal solutions are being made here, of course, crossing the arguments that we agree or disagree with. So I urge everyone to pay good attention to the words they use. There's no need for us to use hard words here. We here need to use words that point to our differences, to support or not to support some legal proposal. I'll give my word to Mr. Palalic and then we'll move on to the debate. Please, really, it's already a replica in a row. This is really how we can do it by midnight. Mr. Palalic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12247	I am reporting on the replica, as the DSS and the Constitutional Court, the initiative, is a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality launched by our parliamentary group. As a member of the Parliament, we have huge objections to the work of the Constitutional Court. We have talked about this several times in public here in the National Assembly and through the presentation of the party's views. We believe that it is time for the National Assembly to also deal with how the Constitutional Court works and how much we all suffer here for the work or for the sake of the Constitutional Court itself. A large number of initiatives launched by MPs awaits. We don't know what the criteria are by which they are taken into action. Some cases are resolved through order, some initiatives, such as our initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Vojvodina statutes, wait four years, to be resolved in half a year. We are now in a situation where the Constitutional Court, the proposal that we have launched for the assessment of constitutionality, four regulations, does not want to decide. We've heard here that a motion for a standstill has been launched by the Justice Department. You, as you know, Mr. Minister, we disagree and believe that the Justice Department is not at all authorized to raise the issue of impasses. Since he is not a legislator, it can only be the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a fundamental problem for the Constitutional Court to remain silent and effectively halt the process. We insist that the Constitutional Court make a decision, instead of putting the whole subject under the carpet in all important and large political issues. They do not want political issues to be resolved or some interregne between the two governments to decide. We finally have to deal with how the Constitutional Court works, so we don't get into a situation where we're constantly because of his decision-making or non-determination, the subject of debates about individual decisions. Let the Constitutional Court make decisions as soon as possible. It concerns all citizens, especially these topics such as KIM, these four regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12248	Thank you. The People's MP Lasslo Varga. Here you go. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Varga. Keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12249	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, I ask that this situation be resolved first. Do I have the right to speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12250	Mr. Varga, you have the right to speak, I gave you my word. After, of course, you can advertise and damage to the Rules of Procedure, you have the right, after the first next speaker. Here you go, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12251	I'm just asking you to reset my time. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this atmosphere, the current course of debate, is completely unworthy of the importance of this agenda. I'm glad we're finally back in business, as far as the debate is concerned. At the end of the debate, surely all who were neutral will conclude to themselves that everyone was right today, and that virtually no one was right. The key problem is that it is difficult to define what is the essence of today's debate, whether it is a formal decision on termination of office, whether it is a fundamental one decision on resolution, or whether it is the replacement of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court for political reasons. The motion for this decision came from the assumption that the Constitutional Court's decisions are final, general binding and executive, that's a fact. But I think it's worth a little more detailed analysis of the decision, and a particular explanation of the Constitutional Court's decision, so that we might come to some right conclusion. Therefore, it is undeniable that the Constitutional Court has found that Article 102 paragraph 5. The Law on Judges, which was adopted by the President of the Supreme Court, therefore, not on the basis of which, but on whose application, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation was elected, that the provision of the Law on Judges was unconstitutional. On the other hand, I think it is more important, because so far there has been little saying that in the reasoning of the decision, the Constitutional Court has also found that the procedure in which the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected, that this procedure is also anti-constitutional, it does not stand up to the soul in the statement of the Constitutional Court's decision, but it stands in an explanation and I would like to quote: "The Constitutional Court did not have the constitutional right to justify, for the choice of the first President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, that it would leave out the obligation to obtain the opinion of the General Court of Supreme Cassation." Therefore, it did not have constitutional legal basis for the election, therefore, not for the adoption of laws, i.e. these controversial legal provisions, but for the very act of choice. I think it's an extremely important argument. For this reason, it is not the President of the Supreme Cassation Court of Administration when he claims that this Constitutional Court decision does not apply to its case because it was chosen by an invitation to Article 144(1). The Constitution. Technically, that is, of course, true, but once again, the Constitutional Court has found in the case concerning the argument that the procedure itself was unconstitutional. The opportunity is this, perhaps not the best, but it is certainly an opportunity to say and make an objection to the work of the Constitutional Court, the objection, of course, concerns this decision. Namely, the Constitutional Court has missed the possibility of giving some, or some guidance to the legislator, perhaps to other state bodies, how to act after the Constitutional Court's decision. You could say it's not the Constitutional Court's obligation. It is not an obligation, but in several places in the decision on the non-constitutional nature of the disputed provision, the Constitutional Court provided suggestions in relation to the election procedure. In many places, therefore, the Constitutional Court found that the National Assembly needed to do so three and a half years ago. That's one thing I think, maybe not the best expression, the mistake, but certainly one failure of the Constitutional Court that didn't go a little further than this situation and gave some suggestions on how to resolve this situation, after the Constitutional Court's decision. It will be difficult for this finding to dispute that at the end of this decision of the Constitutional Court we have come into one outside of the constitutional situation. So, a situation that doesn't know the Constitution. There you would disagree with those who say it's possible to find analogy, or find analogy. I'll talk about it later. Why is there a constitutional situation out there? I think giving good proof is all that's happened in the past month and a half. First, the minister of justice initiated the procedure, or proposed to put out the decision of the President-in-Office of the Supreme Cassation Court, and it turned out, or it was not possible that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was in charge, and then it went in one other direction, in the direction we are discussing today. So, in the direction which means the motion for a decision to terminate the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. There have been many quotes and the Constitution and the Law on Judges in this past part of the debate. I don't want you to read it again, but unfortunately, if you put all those arguments on the table and Article 144. The Constitution of Serbia and Article 57, i.e. 75. The Law on Judges, then you cannot come to a different conclusion that this procedure proposed is neither based on the Constitution nor on the Law on Judges. There's some analogy being applied, but there's no explicit basis, which I don't think anyone's slowing down. In the transcripts, which they have received, I believe, all of them, and many MPs certainly, delivered to us by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, are secretly suggesting a third procedure, which is a process of resolution. I think that this proposal is also incorrect since the procedure could not be applied in this case, given that neither the resolution nor the decision to cease office has any, there is no simple basis, there is no prescribed procedure in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The current proposal is a proposal from the High Judiciary Council. A representative of the High Council of the judiciary at the Justice Committee said this decision is of a declarative nature. I mean, given the consequences of this decision, it just can't be right. So, we today, or not today, but probably in the voting day, which will not be today, we'll Colloquisally remand the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. That's not possible by any declarative act. On the other hand, there have been many words about this, that in the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the High Council has not defined, the jurisdiction of the High Council in Article 14 which would allow the High Council of the Judiciary to propose termination, a decision on termination of office. Simply read Article 14. The Law of the High Council of the Judiciary, surely you will not find such a provision. He has the High Council of the Court of Justice to propose a resolution, to propose a decision on the termination of office in the law he does not have. The position or attitude of the SVM in relation to all decisions of the Constitutional Court, I think it is extremely correct and extremely principled, regardless of whether we agree with any decision of the Constitutional Court, whether that decision means or is contrary to the interests of the citizens, perhaps in certain moments we represent, we have never said and we will not say that the Constitutional Court's decision should not be respected and should not be applied. This is what we have done when we determine the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions of the Law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, and that is what we are saying now. I would like to repeat this once again, and I have already quoted it as part of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision, therefore, that all of them, or none of those who claim that the Constitutional Court has found that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has been elected in an unconstitutional manner wrong. Once again, it is not only the provision of the Law on Judges declared against the constitutional but also the election procedure. Of course, there is a question that is responsible for this whole situation that has arisen. First of all, those who wrote the Constitution a few years ago and who overlooked this situation. As far as I can tell, the imperfect Constitution is, I think the best evidence is a member of the 7th. Constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution. Namely, if you read Article 7. Constitutional law, i.e. the position of Article 2. Constitutional law, then I think we can all come to a very interesting conclusion. In Section 7, if you read the order in the sentence then the Constitutional Law states that first the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected and then elected, then the first choice of judges of the Supreme Cassation Court is made. In the second position, as far as the other courts are concerned, the order is the other way around. This is a completely chaotic situation, and I repeat again, first of all, the consequence of the way the Constitution was brought in a few years ago. They are responsible for this situation and for all those who have designed and implemented the reform of the judiciary and we do not have the slightest understanding for those who created, supported, actively participated in the implementation of the judicial reform, which today will be against the Constitutional Court's decision being applied. In some ways, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is right when he says that she, or the Supreme Council of the judiciary, was only applying the law, that is correct, but neither she nor the other members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary had to do so. They had the possibility that if no one agreed to a reform of the judiciary not to participate, they would simply resign and would not be held accountable today. In this respect, it is also necessary to say, for the sake of correctness, that the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation was the right in the system of justice which held the opinion that this network of courts was badly done, i.e. created. In that sense, it is certainly one positive circumstance, but I repeat once again, neither she nor other members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary who have not resigned in these few years while the judicial reform has lasted, have voiced the view that this reform is going or has gone in the wrong direction. For that reason, everyone involved in this, I think they bear responsibility. What would be the way out of this situation? I think the only way out that would be in accordance with the Constitution is to resign from an old president or president of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is the only procedure that is based on the Constitution. Since, at the head of the Constitutional Court, or the Supreme Court of Cassation in all States, it should be or should be a person with a superior moral and any other integrity, after the Constitutional Court's decision, or part of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision, I think that would be the right way. As it is, and it is a small parallel, not perfect, but certainly parallel, as the governor of the National Bank a few months ago saw when he saw that he would be removed in order to preserve or preserve the integrity of the institution and of course he had all the legal arguments on his part, so that in that sense this parallel did not stand, but it was at that point at which the interests of the institution concerned the most correct decision, and it would be similar at this point. This did not happen. This second time was chosen, which was proposed by the promoter, so the decision to terminate the post. Since, as I said and believe, those who have proposed this decision agree that the procedural justification for this decision simply does not exist in the Constitution, because the Constitution does not know this situation. In that case, if this finding is correct, then the practical parliament becomes an active accomplice to the violation of the Constitution of the envisaged procedures. Because if this procedure doesn't exist in the Constitution, then it can't even be applied. Although parliament applies one procedure that is not prescribed by the Constitution, there is no other option for this decision to be characterized as participation, i.e. with participation in the violation of the Constitution and actively. The second option, or third, is to wait for the end, i.e. the end of the term of office of the president of the VCC. And that solution is not perfect either, it is a violation of the Constitution, given that it means disrespect for the Constitutional Court's decision, but it would not be the first case when the Assembly or the Government violates the Constitution passively, in a passive manner. The constitutional deadline for the adoption of the Law on the Financing of Vojvodina was set at the end of 2008, not the law was passed, which means a passive violation of the Constitution and I think it is better that parliament does not participate actively, applying a procedure not provided for by the Constitution in breach of the Constitution, but rather to wait for the end of the term of office of the current VCC president. That parliament has two options to choose, one bad and one worse solution. Since we think the proposed solution is worse, as SVM MPs, we cannot propose this solution and for this reason we will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12252	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12253	I asked for a word per article 104. Rules of Procedure, where I didn't get by Article 104, so I asked for a word by Article 103. Rules of Procedure to point to Article 27. Rules of Procedure. If I have to, I can quote them, but we all know the three members of the Rules of Procedure well. In fact, I do not think there is an equality of participants in this debate, because different relations on the possibility of participation based on replicas, based on the apparition of the Rules of Procedure and therefore suggests that we all have an equal relationship in the further debate. Otherwise, I have to point out one more thing, that in the address of Mr. Minister who addressed me directly, so I did not get the right to reply, in a certain way certain provisions of the Constitution, as well as the law, have been incorrectly quoted, and it should be pointed out to all that the Constitutional Court's decision determines that the provision of Article 102, paragraph 5. The law on judges is not in accordance with the Constitution. Secondly, it does not fall under the Constitutional Court's decision. It is not binding for any individual, it can be referring, but not in the sense of binding, because if it were binding, then the explanation of the Kosovo Resolution, where the KIM Constitution is mentioned in the explanation, where the laws in force in the province are mentioned, would be counter-constitutional. And then we're told, no matter what the reason for the resolution says, it's an important saying, it's the resolution and the preamble. If that's the case here, it has to be the same principle. So the explanation is not valid. Just one more sentence, in Article 144, it is clear that only to the president of the VKS the post before the end of the term of office to which he was elected may be at his request, the entry of the law of the prescribed conditions for the termination of the judicial office and the resolution, mean by the law of the prescribed conditions. That's why, under the law of the prescribed conditions for the termination of the judge's office, it's for everyone, just like here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12254	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12255	I will try to bring this debate into the frameworks prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. I appeal to the right to reply, as Minister Selakovic addressed me directly. Mr. Minister, I don't think I'm in any way handicapped in this debate because I graduated from the FDU, not the Law School. What we're talking about is not based on law and law, but on pure politics, and I've been in this policy for 17 years. On November 28th, Mr Selakovic, the applicant of the initiative in front of the Constitutional Court, the judge in this country told witnesses in the courtroom that his mother, President of the Castion Court Nata Mesarevic, will be replaced today and that this is a political decision. By the way, he sought what he was known for, privileged status before the courts of the country, because he is a representative of the party in power. On January 11, you, Mr. Minister, began the political execution and implementation of the political decision that Cvian spoke of. That's why we in this debate can talk absolutely equally to you. You're a representative of one political party, I'm a representative of another political party. What you're doing is gossiping about your apartment and it's absolutely catastrophic for the whole country. This is not just about defending the interest of a party, but about defending the right to finally become a normal country in which it will have fully equal judicial authorities with an executive or with legislation. (President: Time. That's all it's about, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12256	Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, here's to relax the entire atmosphere a little bit and the story of the release of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. We will address the Serbian public in front of the NS parliamentary group on the decision to determine the composition of a monitoring committee to implement the UN Security Council Resolution 1325. First of all, it is also an honor to draw attention to this important document by the public of Serbia, and this important step by Serbia to make a national action plan for the implementation of Security Alliance 1325, which deals with the issue of "women, security and peace". Very few and very rarely talk about women's participation in conflict situations and as negotiators and as those who can significantly contribute to the resolution of conflict situations and to society's reform later. Before I speak of the Resolution itself, I will say and remind you of what about women in conflict situations, in the early situations, said our writer, Borislav Mihajlović Mihiz, in the autobiography of others, saying about her mother Vukosava, who, during the war, left occupied Belgrade in the village, took her girl's preparation, traded for some food she gave to every armed guard to miss and with very little to return to Belgrade to feed her children. Borislav Mihajlovic says with full respect, that his mother is only one of the army of nameless heroes, who have fought in their own way in war and maintained their lives. Then he said one sentence, which we can all imagine deeply. It's true that postwar monuments never get these nameless heroes. The monuments are raised by those who start wars, and never by those who have to endure them. All of the war conflicts and all of the battlefields were largely affected by the female population and women were generally insecure in the world. On September 11th, a terrorist attack on Twin Towers in New York definitely changed the world's consciousness and the need for the world to think about security in a different way. The United Nations and the UN Security Council, the UN body, adopted Resolution 1325 on 31 October 2000, which deals with precisely the issue of peace, women's security in conflict situations. It is legally non-binding, but politically, morally, it is suggested to all UN member states that this problem be dealt with more seriously and in more detail. As the suggestion itself went quite slowly, in 2004, the UN secretary asked member states to approach the development of national action plans "women, security and peace". We can proudly say that we are a country that understands this message, because we are a country that, in its geopolitical position, is such that we have been very often affected by conflict situations and war fires, and we have been through a difficult and traumatic breakup of the previous Yugoslavia. A body was formed in Serbia, which was entered by members of parliament, which was entered by representatives of the ministries, meaning the interior ministry, the foreign ministry, the finance ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Defence and all NGOs and representatives of the academic public as well as journalists. Four working groups have been formed. These four working groups, the first of which dealt with the role of women in decision-making, the working group on women's participation in conflicts and conflict resolution in post-conflict periods and peace support operations, the working group on women's legal protection instruments and working groups in the education of female and male members of the security sector. The four working groups have made a national action plan, whose implementation we will monitor in Serbia's life. Serbia is a country that has always had a deep human relationship in its tradition and a deeply sensitive attitude towards war crimes. It's because of our history, it's because of our national sensitivity. The previous assembly of parliament has joined changes in legal acts and Serbia has adopted several important laws, notably the Law on Gender Equality, then the Law on Preventing Discrimination, the Law on Preventing Labour, the Criminal Law, the Law on Co-operation with the International Criminal Court, has been amended and adapted to the Law on Defence and Security. A strategic framework for the adoption of a national action plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325 has also been established. Many important national strategies have been adopted, notably the National Strategy to improve women's position and improve gender equality for the period 2009 to 2015, the Strategy for Integrated Border Management in the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for Combating Human trafficking in the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for countering illegal migration in the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for poverty reduction, the Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Serbia and the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia. All these strategies have left a significant place for the women's population. The Republic of Serbia has created institutional mechanisms to implement the national action plan. In addition to the committee at the local, regional and republican level, which deals with the issue of gender equality, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Protector of the Rights of Citizens and the Directorate for Gender Equality have been institutionalised. We haven't made a small step and contributed to the little one, right in the construction of world peace. Not many countries, unfortunately, have gone a similar way and we can at this point be an example of many in the UN and hopefully we will, because the slow implementation of Resolution 1325 is slowest to change in people's prejudices are the slowest to remove and overcome. Following the adoption of this resolution, following the UN secretary's recommendation, the UN passed three other resolutions dealing with the same topic. Resolution 1820, Resolution 1888 and Resolution 1889, in which they even more detailedly warned about the problems women have, and the injuries that women have in war conflicts. In particular, they have drawn attention to the sexual abuse of women in war conflicts and abuse, such as the accounting and humiliation of opposing sides. Former Minister of Afghanistan Sima Samar, is knowing what her country has been through and what trauma the country has been through, she said – only a safe man is truly free and it is truly true. Women are the ones who need to be visible at the places of decision, women are the ones who need to get a significant part of political power in all places, because that women have decided on the fate of the world so many wars and so many deaths would never be. I welcome what Serbia has done so far, and I hope we will do much together and continue to be a real example in the UN and the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12258	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12259	Thank you, Mr. President. Although it is clear that these two points of the agenda have been combined to marginalise in some way everything that is so compromising in the process of dealing with the President of the Cassation Court, Mrs Mesarovic, I think there are some benefits for us. If we're talking about Serbia's ambition to change everything that is deviant within it itself, then we're talking about a list of jobs we've been fighting for years. In that age, we were lonely, even when we proposed the Law on Combating Discrimination, when we fought for birth and every other kind of equality, when we sought respect for the laws and constitutional freedoms that guarantee everyone first on, say, free love. This gives us key arguments for the debate we entered by asking the parliamentary majority to tell the truth here in the Assembly. That she's not hiding behind the law and the Constitution because she's in it unfailingly and obviously failed. In 2009, when the President of the Cassation Court was elected here, we were the only party to launch the debate on and on the position of the judiciary in our country. Most of them weren't up for it. Both then and today, key decisions were made, or it is desirable to make, without any debate. Why would parliamentarians spend time when there is someone to make decisions for them and think for them? Mr. Selakovic, that's why I'm going to say again that I'm very sorry. As far as we're concerned, there's no obstacle to such a thing. Why isn't he sitting here who's the driver of that initiative? I'm referring to the advisor of the President of the Republic of Oliver Antic. I think the President of the Republic knows, as well as you, how right I am when I say that his advisor, your mentor, under that I don't mean anything persuasive, the creator of the account with the President of the Cassation Court, as a necessary prerequisite for the return of the Serbian judiciary to those frameworks in which his exclusive function was to protect the laws of political law. That's the period of the '90s, Mr. Selakovic. Those years you'd rather forget because of the political role of the party you came from and which you only remember when in The Hague you meet with the policyholders, who today are being tried for the worst crimes since 1945 and World War II until today, committed in our premises. This is not a debate about Nata Mesarovic. If it were just her, then she would certainly, crediblely and superiorly participate in the debate herself and come out of it as a winner. This is a debate where the other side does not even have the right to exist, let alone participate in the debate. It is impossible to build a democratic society in Serbia without an independent judiciary, without equality of the judicial authority. Did she exist in Serbia? It's not. Were they created with a lot of bad compromises, unnecessary mistakes, sloppyness, the desires of those who were the authority to make this judiciary look independent, but to be controlled by themselves? Are there any guesses that somewhere in the future, even if our children face judges who are judges and prosecutors who are prosecutors? Yes, they are. There were. Mr Selakovic, what you are doing today, you, the Vickey Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court, those who are the government in this country, are returning Serbia to the 1990s, at a time when judges were not judges, prosecutors were not prosecutors. At the time when 40,000 students were arrested, at the time when the media were banned in one day, at the time when it was normal to write laws to get out of the political crises that we had come to because someone was not ready to comply with the laws of this country. That's why we can't keep quiet. You're saying I'm not a lawyer. For what you're doing, you don't even need to know the alphabets. You don't need to know how to read. Just look how insecure you are when you explain what you are asking us to do here. You and them, all the contractors who follow you, the presidents of the assembly committees who can't even believe themselves that they are who they are. MPs who can't remember what they were until yesterday. We can't work together like that. I read the official note of the deputy attorney for organized crime. What did you do about it in five months? You're the one who rewarded Cvian. We didn't say that at that point was the SNS' position. We asked that such a person be replaced with a very important function held here in parliament, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The moment our initiative was rejected, Cvian stopped being someone to whom we were paying any attention, because at that moment it became clear what the character of the policy that Cvian really wanted was in the position of the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Of course, the Serbian judiciary is a victim of chaos, and it is not an accident, because all the institutions that exist in this country are built on such grounds that they would be institutions when it corresponds to those who are in power and stopped being when the law restricts them. It would be wonderful if we had a Constitutional Court. That would be great, if we had a real Supreme Cassation Court and credible people in it, elected in an undeniable way, strong because of the laws they serve, but it can't all be on one side, and on the other hand, the government that binds only what it wants and what it needs. I don't know how many MPs are here in the O.R. who participated in the College of Presidents of the Assembly when the Constitutional Court was elected, but I think those who were present at the time can only confirm what I had already said, Mr. Selakovic. The Constitutional Court was elected by two dominant ruling parties to each other, and then offered to be part of the package, provided they agree with the first principle, and the principle is that the one who heads the government and the one who is president of the country actually decides on the work of such an important institution. Could there be any criminal proceedings against the Constitutional Court judges? Have any members of the High Council of the judiciary been relieved of their duties? Was anyone besides them faced with a question of responsibility because of such a compromising outcome? You're replacing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court under the law. You're talking about the termination of office, both you and someone who thanks to the parliamentary majority who is who he is, whether or not, Mr Petrovic, found himself in the position of the chairman of the Justice Committee, so since the ruling majority is who he is, then we should also turn our heads. I'm sorry, but in our case, we can't agree to something like that. The legal basis for the termination of the term of office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is laid down in Article 79(3). The Law on Judges, Article 79(3). - the termination of office, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, ceases his post before the end of the time he was elected on a personal request. Is there a personal request from Mrs. Mesarevic? There isn't. There is resistance, not preparedness and a personal request for termination of function. At the end of the judge's office, does the judge's office stop? You yourself have said, Minister, that it does not stop, or that it has been resolved by these laws for the reasons laid down for dispensing the President of the Court. You said yourself you couldn't talk about a solution. Well, on what grounds do you ask us to accept your idea of ending the office of President of the Supreme Cassation Court? On what basis are you representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary asking us to do something like that? Where's the basis for that? He's gone. That's why it's illegal. Why are you taking part in this, Minister? Answer that question. You didn't launch that initiative. Your MP Cvian, a man who is in personal conflict with the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, a man who can one day be the secretary of President Tadic, and another day be a high-ranking official of your party. That's what he says about him, about Tadic and about you. What tells us that you are 600 judges who are not elected because it came from the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, which did not provide for automatic re-election, but the choice of judges, that all 600 judges at the press conference presented as new members of their party? That just confirms what we LDP talk about all day. You want to establish a progressive judiciary, not an independent judiciary. It starts with the same letter, but it's the opposite. That's why there's no support for your request. You can demonstrate in front of the congregation, support those with whom you share your political views. We can criticise it, and we don't have to agree on it. You, as Minister of Justice, can go to The Hague, but as Minister of Justice, you must be aware of the fact that the sympathy with which you do so may be insulting to someone in this country. As minister of justice on this subject and I or all of us as MPs of one opposition party, we must not differ, Mr Selakovic. We have to work together to make the court a court, and the prosecutor a prosecutor. Why is it impossible in Serbia today, and in every other place outside of this country, to one that is more fortunate than Serbia itself, something that tends to or something that has already been achieved? Because of such policies as yours, Mr. Minister, because of such policies as yours, Mr. Petrovic, we have a majority that is what it is, so we can think of what it is. How are you gonna get to the new President of the Supreme Cassation Court, someone we need to respect, whom should his colleagues respect? What do our institutions look like today? Anyone on the Internet presentation of the High Council of the judiciary can see the sessions, how they were voted, how decisions were made. We wanted justice reform and we did everything we could to make it successful. We didn't push any of our judges, we didn't ask any of our prosecutors not to be a prosecutor, but someone to put the case away in the drawer, so we took out the banana after five years when someone else was okay with it. We wanted free and independent justice. I don't mean to appeal to anyone's morals, but what you're doing today brings us back to the time when the only argument was who could stand it more. Mr. Selakovic, you have come out of that time by making many of those who, together with you, have been politically on the other side, contrary to ours, and changed their identity. Don't put us back where we were 20 or 15 years ago. If something is illogical, and of course it's illogical, then create the necessary logic, and do not abuse it. We didn't vote for the Constitution. We didn't vote for the law on its implementation. The policy that did this today escapes responsibility and execution by the President of the Cassation Court also destroys the Serbian judiciary. That's the facts. Now here to quote a correspondence between our institutions, an explanation of the decisions made, all this argument of the Constitutional Court. We didn't ask for the resignation of the President of the Cassation Court. We didn't initiate the discharge procedure. We just said that one member of the law is contrary to the Constitution, although it is not elected under that law, but is elected under the law that stems from the Constitution itself and it concerns the implementation of the Constitution itself. (President: Time. ) It is impossible without the President of the High Council of the judiciary to make the choice of judges, and without elected judges there is no joint session and you all know it very well and it was a mine set up in the organisation of an independent judiciary, so that one day this judiciary will be demonized, which you are now doing. That's what you're doomed to fail in advance. No one in this country believes that the ideal of justice is something that Serbian citizens have the right to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12260	The word is made by MP Dragan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12261	Dear President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I would first of all like to say that LSV will vote against this decision, not for the reason that it has any kind of sympathy for the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court, for someone who has been in the past or for someone who will become one in the future. We simply believe that the reason for this decision is that this is a significant institution of the system and that there must be a clear definition of the reasons for the direction of the holder of such a responsible function, responsible above all that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is also the President of the High Council of the judiciary, and the High Council of the judiciary plays a significant role in the selection and resolution of the holders of judicial functions. Personally, I believe this is precisely the reason for Mrs Mesarovic's shift, so you can establish control over this body. This my suspicion developed two days ago completely when Mr Selakovic in Brussels, in addition to the other things he said, stated that in addition to the Constitutional Court's decision to return judges to work, this decision would have to be reviewed through the determination of the disciplinary responsibilities of individuals. I suppose they're similar, or inappropriate individuals. Prior to that, it is necessary to establish power over the Supreme Council of the judiciary. When you have a man who will be able to implement this decision of yours, I assume that you will then begin to calculate with those who, in your opinion, are unsuitable. So, when it comes to the Constitutional Court's decision on the issue of Nate Mesarovic, then it's very clear, the decision is quite clear, and when it comes to the decision to return judges to work, it is not clear, and you will resolve it through the disciplinary responsibility of inadequate individuals. As far as I'm concerned, these motives are very clear. I also believe that the reasons for the shift relating to the Constitutional Court's decision, which you are calling upon, which states that the provision of Article 102, paragraph 5. The law on courts is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is not the real motive for this initiative of yours which you have submitted to the Supreme Council of the judiciary for the removal of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It's not the first time you've formed a government to change laws to satisfy individual ambitions. That's what you did in the election of the governor of the NBS. Let's see whose ambitions are being met this time. However, this time you haven't changed the law, you just couldn't find a legal basis for your initiative. The reasons for stopping functions are clear. This is a solution at the request of the judge, i.e. by the law of the prescribed conditions. The Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision is definitely not so. What is very important to note is that none of these grounds are justified within the meaning of this proposal for a decision on termination of office. You know, what you forgot to write is the legal basis for a shift. You didn't write that, because in my opinion, the real basis and motive that you're running is not prescribed in the law or the Constitution. The fact that some of your party's officials have the need to calculate through media, for their known reasons, with the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, calling it corrupt, is by no means the legal basis to which you call. You started the fight against corruption, which we in LSV absolutely support. You have the authority, you have the institutions of the system. I think you should institutionalize that fight. If you have any evidence, run the procedure. The media is no place to bring such things up. In my opinion, in addition to someone's personal ambitions when it comes to this function, I believe your reasons might also be related to the poor reform of the judiciary, which you mention, also this same member of your party, believing that Mrs. Mesarovic is the most responsible for her failure, but that basis does not exist in the law, so you had to make yourself express myself more freely, gymnastics to implement your ideas in action. What should we do that is not prescribed by the Constitution of Serbia? What do we do that isn't prescribed by law? If you want to change the Constitution and prescribe the reasons for stopping the judicial function wider or more precisely, we in LSV will surely support the initiative to change the Constitution first of all for the reasons that you know that we did not support this constitution. This constitution in Vojvodina didn't even pass. We were against this constitution and this all the time. The reasons for our support for the amendments to the Constitution are primarily contained in the possibility that this process of AP Vojvodina will finally restore everything that was taken from it in 1989, and above all I mean legislative, executive and judicial power, and original income and property. Absolutely do not doubt that when this happens we will know very well that by the legal acts of the AP Vojvodina, above all by the Constitution and by the laws, we will prescribe everything in Vojvodina's relationship, even in relation to the judges' functions in the province. After all, while there was judicial authority in Vojvodina, the court decisions in Vojvodina were an example of expertise and justice. To get back on the subject, if the reason for this initiative of yours is a poor reform of the judiciary, I, as someone who faces it every day, can tell you that the reform has really not achieved the expected results and that it could have been implemented much better. It is evident that courts are far from citizens, that judges, as well as the entire judicial administration, are burdened with such reform. It is also evident that something needs to be changed, but then you need to prescribe it with the Constitution and the law, and the reasons for the replacement of those people who did not meet expectations when implementing the judicial reform. In your opinion in this particular case – Nate Mesarović, rather than using these reasons unfounded. Consider, too, the decision of the Constitutional Court that you state. In light of this decision, it is stated that the Law on Judges entered into force on 30 December 2008, but that it began to apply on 1 January 2010, except for certain provisions which apply after the formation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It is definitely not a provision of Article 102. The law on judges. If we continue to take the decision on the election of Nate Mesarovic as president of the Supreme Cassation Court on 30 November 2009, it insists that the said Law on Judges was not in place. Namely, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected on the basis of Article 144(1). The Constitution. The law on judges has not yet been applied. The Constitutional Court has declared the non-constitutional provision of Article 102, paragraph 5. The Law on Judges, so it remains unclear – how can this be the basis for a proposal for her shift when she was neither the basis for her choice? Is this law being applied retroactively? You're the minister, tell me. I say it doesn't apply. If I'm wrong, you correct me. I would not doubt your good intentions that you wish to correct the discrepancies of the law with the Constitution, so you want to correct it as you have stated in the initiative that you have put aside the decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court because of the violated unity of the legal order set out in the provision of Article 4. The Constitution. If you were to choose the same person again without changing the function, then it would be about establishing a unity of the legal order and that would be a good intention towards all citizens of Serbia, you as a security minister of justice. This is how I believe that your intentions are not directed towards the interests of the citizens of Serbia, but solely towards the interests of your party. For these very reasons, we from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina are not asking the question of the legal basis for the shift, in particular the issue of protecting the institution of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Does that mean that whenever you think you need to change something, you file an initiative, then you propose, and you change the laws, you make decisions, and you do what you want. You see, it's not a legal state, it's not security, it's not Serbia as we from the Social Democrats League want. We want a country in which decisions will be made in accordance with the Constitution and the law, as well as those relating to the choice of governor of the National Bank, the election and replacement of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, as well as those relating to 7% of the republican budget belonging to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Of course, until we get our original incomes, which will certainly be immeasurably higher. It's not all you're adapting to the Constitution and the law, it's all you've adapted to party interests. Of course, in this part of the 7% budget with the help of a person whose stringed jersey with number one of your party presidents showed in this assembly until recently, I guess, as the last line of defense for the better economic position of Serbian citizens, he replaced it with the uniform of a member of your government. All right, I agree. The election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court requires the general session of this court, in addition to the other conditions, of course. What the Constitution and the law state is what kind of opinion it should be. Should it be written opinion, should it be positive or negative, is this session obliged to give this opinion and what are the consequences if it doesn't? In particular, is the opinion given and given afterwards, but verbally? It doesn't say how it should be. What if this opinion is missing? Does this mean we won't even have a president of the Supreme Cassation Court and a president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary because the Assembly won't be able to choose them? Of course that doesn't mean that. These are all questions that are unsaid and unresolved. I understand that it is completely difficult for you to implement this political decision on this shift, I can say freely to the Constitution and the law, but don't do it this way. Do not introduce illegal treatment into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The citizens didn't deserve it. We don't need the will you want to do. We need a legal state, and you're hitting on its foundations more and more frequently and seriously. Finally, I can't help but point out that Mrs. Mesarovic condemned the long-standing prison sentences of the persons charged with killing the prime minister, given your political beliefs, which you publicly nurtured 20 years ago, before you disguised yourself as Europeans, given your party vice president's statement at the time, that Tito had problems with his leg before he died. I wonder if this is some kind of rematch and punishment for the decisions that Nata Mesarevic made, I must say, very bravely, as president of the judge council. I sincerely hope that's not the case. So I think that there are clear motives and reasons why the Social Democrats League MPs will vote against this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12262	Thank you. Minister Selakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12263	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I had to react because of something that was brought out here, which is certainly not true. When we talk about manipulations, abuses, especially abuses of power, abuses of authority, then, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, will return to the National Assembly in November 2009. First, the truth was made that the Law on Judges did not come into force, and it came into force. It was brought in in 2008. Take a closer look. Furthermore, in October 19th 2009, the official messenger of the Republic of Serbia published an ad in which it stands – the High Council of the judiciary on the basis of Article 47, and with regard to Article 80(1) and Article 102 paragraph 5. The law on judges promotes a choice for President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Article 102, paragraph 5. The law on judges. The High Council of the judiciary has sent a proposal to the National Assembly, here is the text of the proposal, where it stands – on the basis of Article 102 paragraph 5. The Law on Judges, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 116/08, and Article 181(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held at the session, after the proposal was left empty, made a decision in 2009 to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Therefore, the preamble stands – on the basis of Article 102 paragraph 5. And then somehow, magically, someone dares to change the proposal of an authorised promoter and enter into its essence, i.e. the legal basis itself. Allow me, this is an example of severe abuse. How did that happen? We can consult with the National Assembly’s competent services. How, then, was it possible to step down from the official proposal of the authorised promoter? If someone's opinion is sought, it does not give the right to an opinion that should be given to change the proposal. That was done in 2009. Once again I ask the question – how and for what? As it is possible that the Decision, which was adopted on 30 November 2009, was to apply a member of the Constitution, which was obviously not applied. This is something that all MPs should well wonder how the committees of the National Assembly functioned when something like this could have come to the meeting of the National Assembly? The text of the proposal, which the High Council of the judiciary sent to the National Assembly, was amended, and the National Assembly, or the Committee on Justice, could give a positive or negative opinion on this proposal. How did a member of the Constitution come here 144, even though it was known then that this member of the Constitution was not being applied? It is not applicable, there was no necessary opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, since there was no Supreme Cassation Court, there was no judge of the Supreme Cassation Court. When you read the argument of the Constitutional Court's decision, it is also cited as something that is completely inconsistencies. I've set an example, I think it's quite obvious. Imagine being elected by the President of the National Assembly without having elected any MPs. It would mean that someone is imposing on you the President of the Assembly. If we're talking about an independent judiciary, it's in the law that the President of the Court is elected by the judges of that court. A severe abuse and error in steps have been made. The constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution, the truth states first, the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the judges of that court has to be carried out within 90 days. Right, but look at all the other provisions. The function shall always be indicated by the meaning of the function and by the wearers of the function. So, please pay attention to that, because there has been a severe abuse in the National Assembly. How and why, let him question the one in charge. In any case, the High Council of the judiciary has called for a member who has been declared unconstitutional, as far as that goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12264	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12265	Chairman, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. You've allowed Minister Selakovic to be severely offended several times, injure the dignity of this House. Mr Selakovic almost explicitly said at least twice that there was some kind of falsification in the National Assembly and called on MPs to inquire about it in the professional services of the National Assembly. This is a serious insult to this congregation. They have nothing to do with professional service, and Mr Selakovic would have had a much more effective way of asking himself about it and could have done so with Mr. Veljko Odalovic, who at the time Mr. Selakovic spoke of was the secretary-general of this parliament and the head of the service of this parliament, and is now the secretary-general of the government in which Mr. Selakovic was minister and came to this place by the decision of his parliamentary majority. So, let us once get into some order and be so honored that when we accuse each other, especially of these things, we do this to those who are on the public stage, whose responsibility can be determined, etc., and not to people who are employed in the professional service of the Serbian Parliament. They cannot defend themselves, and it is not right to allow themselves to become so difficult and unfoundedly accused at national congregation sessions. So, if he has responsibilities, let Minister Selakovic say who is responsible. If he accuses the services of failure, then let him determine that responsibility with the then head of the Service of the National Assembly, Mr. Odalovic, and the current secretary general of the government. Right now, I'm not accusing Mr. Odalovich. I believe that neither Mr Selakovic should do so in direct contact and that Mr. Odalovic is present.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12266	Thank you. I don't think it's an injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure. At one point, Mr. Djuric, you said Mr. Selakovic was accusing professional services. He certainly does not accuse them, but only in his presentation did he say that he could check with professional services what he was talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12267	He said, "Obviously there was a serious abuse in the National Assembly itself." That's what Mr. Selakovic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12268	Yes, but he didn't charge professional services, as you said. The word is Mr. Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have heard Mr. Selakovic accuse himself of coming from a party. I will read only one part of the stenogram from the Justice Committee session, held on 27 November 2009. I don't want to mention the name of the MP because he's not here, and if he did, I'd be happy to. The stenogram says - Since a proposal has been made here by the Supreme Council of the judiciary to decide on the election in the form of a legal act, and this is what Minister Selakovic was talking about, referring to Article 102 paragraph 5, I think we should define that we should give the opinion that the Assembly should make a choice, and the Assembly will, in accordance with its internal rules, make a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in a form that satisfies the choice and publication of such a decision in the "Official Messenger". That MP who said that has exceeded his authority. To be clear, since it is called to the Constitution, at this point the only Constitution is protecting it from criminal responsibility, which is that it cannot be punished for its express opinion and vote in the National Assembly. That's what this whole election story of the Supreme Cassation Court is about is one big farce of the ruling majority that she chose at that time. I'm thinking primarily of those who then had the justice portfolio.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12270	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12271	I would ask you to take and read what I have mentioned and see that the proposal in the congregation comes in one form, and that it comes out of the congregation as a adopted decision in another form. Something happened in the meantime. Someone changed that proposal and brought it in a different form. You heard a quote from the Justice Committee's session. What's this about? I suppose it was someone who was a good and written lawyer, so he already knew that such a provision of the Law on Judges, Article 102, paragraph 5, was incompatible with the Constitution. You can give this to a student who has passed constitutional law and the introduction to law, to read the provision of the Constitution, to read the provision of Article 102, paragraph 5. The law on judges and to see that there's a fat flaw. Whoever changed the decision compared to the original proposal knew very well what he was doing and it went unnoticed. When I said, "abuse," yes, this is about abuse. I am in favour of having the person responsible carry out the insight into the stenogram, to see how this debate was going, how the proposal had been amended, and how the proposal had been found in a different form in front of the MPs. So the High Council of the Judiciary sent one thing, and the MPs got something else entirely. The legal basis is, let me, one of the key things when you call on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12272	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12273	Minister Selaković, slowly, we will also reach the field of constitutional law, from a constitutional and legal point of view will simply explain to you the scandal of what you are doing today as a Member of the LDP and professor of constitutional law at the Faculty of Law, where you work yourself, Svetislava Bulajic, but we will do so in the follow-up session. First, if you insist so much on the procedure, you should know that there are records here about the work of the Assembly and its bodies, not stenograms. So it's a relevant source. Secondly, when I say again, you insist so much on the procedure, you have failed to answer a few times the question you have raised in the debate so far. What is the legal basis, Mr Selakovic, of the Minister of Justice, under which you asked the Constitutional Court of Serbia to stop the decision-making process on the constitutionality of the regulations concerning Kosovo and Metohija, and in a procedure that wanted to initiate and by an appropriate act the DSS did? Where is the legal basis for such a procedure? So who are you to anyone in this country, and you're doing it now not as a lawyer, you're doing it as a politician, it's obvious, you lecture on how important the legal basis is and what kind of abuse is it? So, once again, please answer me exactly where it is, in which member, what source of law is the legal basis for which you so requested from the Constitutional Court of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12274	Thank you. The word is Mr. Andric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12275	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic, for telling me that I should read the Constitutional Court's decision. Believe me, I read it carefully. If you had listened carefully to me, then you would have heard me say when the law came into force, and that is when you said it. I also said when it started to apply, which is January 1, 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12276	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12277	Ladies and gentlemen, article 118. The Rules of Procedure, which consists of the National Assembly, is said to be in one position – the adopted minutes are attached to the material discussed at the session and the stenographic notes from that session, which means that the stenographic notes are an integral part of the minutes. Don't let us get into what's older. Of course he can't record without a stenogram and know exactly who said what, and this is certainly a document that's official, which is in the archives of the National Assembly and no one can deny the credibility of this. Believe me, no one.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12278	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12279	I really thought I'd avoid getting involved in this controversy about respecting the Rules of Procedure, but indeed, Madam Chairman, I urge you to respect the Rules of Procedure. So, if someone answers the Rules of Procedure because they claim and must claim that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, because only you can hurt the Rules of Procedure and no one else, and then reads us that the stenogram is an integral part of the minutes. It's not about what any MP has said somewhere, nor does it give anyone the right to assume that he can be called to some kind of responsibility for it. So this is about trying to get one legally unfounded procedure, by legal violence to carry out a shift at the head of the highest judicial authority in this country. And now that some MP has said something, and it is now such a terrible and criminal act, you think it can cover the fact that here, without any legal basis, political cleanup is now being conducted at the top of the most important judicial institution. That's what this is about, and what some MP said, Mr. Arsic, if we were to quote what you said, many would really end up...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12280	Do not address the MP directly. Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12281	Vice-President, with all due respect to you, according to the width of which you are holding this session and allowing for a very important debate which, I agree, is occasionally on the very border of the Rules of Procedure, I think that what is allowed to be advertised by the Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsic, is injured, Article 27, that I should also state the legal basis, indeed, inadmissible. So, how's the injured member 118. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of what and how the minutes are made, how does it be adopted, and what does it contain? Did I injure the Rules of Procedure's provision by having sex with the minister about the stenogram and the records? Maybe I could hurt Article 118. The Rules of Procedure, let me explain to you in plastic terms, by saying, let's say, people who work in the Assembly's professional service prevent from putting together a stenogram, stealing a disc, it happened in this assembly and locked himself in some room in this building, but I can't hurt Article 118. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by mentioning the minutes. I'm sorry, but it's no violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then you can't allow it to be referred to as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if Mr. Arsic understands that, but you still have to hold a session according to that. I am pleased that Mr. Arsic has expanded his interests so much, that he is now interested in all the members of the Rules of Procedure, but there is really no need to fascinate us constantly with these new findings.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12282	Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12283	It is true that a non-presidency MP cannot break the Rules of Procedure, but it is also true that the chairman is obliged to warn him if I violate the Rules of Procedure. So, when it comes to Article 118, he defines how the record is kept, and when it comes to the lawlessness of the SNS, or Minister Selakovic, I will only read Article 144. The Constitution – President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly, in the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the competent committee of the Assembly. The decision made on 30 November 2009 was a lawlessness. There is no direct application of the Constitution in decision making. The constitution is applied through law. This was done on purpose because the decision taken by the Assembly was called to the Constitution and could not be subject to an assessment of constitutionality by the Constitutional Court, and you chose and came up with a proposal from the High Council, which called for Article 102(5). The law on judges, which someone has changed in the law-making process here in the Assembly. We can't change the proposal, we plead, we give an opinion and we vote on it, yes or no. Someone changed him, and that's a serious problem. Don't defend it. Then we're really going into lawlessness.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12284	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12285	I believe that, if we know, we have before us, and each of us has received this book, where not only is the Constitution, but also the Constitutional Law, in the Constitutional Law of Article 7, it is clear – the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the first choice of judges of the Supreme Cassation Court will be carried out no later than 90 days from the day of the constitution of the High Council of the Judiciary, and later, for judges, everything that will be and how it will be. As regards Article 144, The Constitution, our Constitution, I sincerely hope is designed to be valid throughout a number of years ahead of us, and not for one-time use, which says it's worth a great vacation. So, if this constitution applies over a long period of time, then it's normal... Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12286	Mr. Mikovic, you're probably aware that you're abusers of the Rules of Procedure. I don't need to explain. You're a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12287	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I just have to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12288	As for Article 107, I don't think I've hurt Article 107, since your argument is not adequate to what you wanted to tell us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12289	I didn't finish and explain why. You have to give me two minutes to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12290	Why did I hurt Article 107?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12291	Here's the thing. If we respect the dignity of the National Assembly, then we must respect that any MP who still seriously reads the Constitution and the Constitutional Law can access the data.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12292	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. Hope of Kolundji, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Right? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12293	Madam Chairman, Article 107 and Article 103. (President: 107 has already been advertised, so 103.) Article 103 speaks of the cases in which the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, speaks to the MP after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you gave Mr. Arsic your word and he talked about everything, just not about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12294	Mrs. Kolundjia, just a minute, let me answer you, because you're wrong. Mr. Arsic was not given a word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but on the basis of the replica. Based on the replica, he got the word, not on his injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12295	Article 27. Is it allowed to give a replica to a previously advertised breach of the Rules of Procedure? Let's establish that rule so we can function normally. I agree with both principles, but just so we know what rules we're working on, and I find this interpretation odd, that someone who's a lawyer doesn't have to warn you. Then it tells me that you have a special obligation or, as I say, some kind of need to warn those who are not lawyers. Mr. Arsic is not a lawyer, so I ask you to remind him every time he makes a mistake in interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12296	Mr. Arsic was given, to explain once again, a real replica based on the fact that the previous speaker directly mentioned his name. So, when you answer, please, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, don't use that right of yours to mention the MPs. Of course, the rule would be that other MPs should not be mentioned at that time, so you too read all the Rules of Procedure carefully, and you will see that in that case you only talk about injury to the Rules of Procedure. Have any of the other applicants reported any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Jovanovic. Do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12297	Madam Chairman, member 103 again, but position 2. Why don't you let the MPs explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure they applied for? You allow Mr Arsic to talk about a subject that is not at all a matter of the Rules of Procedure, and you discriminate against opposition MPs that they cannot say today, when it is a very important topic on the agenda, above all an unconstitutional and illegal decision that you intend to make, you do not allow the MPs of the opposition to speak. And you violate the Constitution in this way and violate the Law on the National Assembly and violate all laws. Please stick to all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12298	So I didn't break Section 2. The constitution, because I first told Mrs. Kolundzija that she was wrong because she misread what I had said to Mr. Arsic. Please, everyone, let's get back to the agenda. I ask the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, if anyone wants a word? I have Mr. Stefanovic in my system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12299	Dear fellow MPs, Minister Selakovic and others present. We here have a lot of things in one really very clear way to show what the ruling majority has tried today and will probably manage to do. We have legal and political reasons for the replacement of the president of the VCC. The legal reasons and in detail will be discussed by the MPs of the DS today, indeed without any intention or sentiment towards Mrs Mesarevic himself. That's how we said the same thing, remember, about the president. Governor, pardon the National Bank of Serbia, without investing in the personal quality and properties of Mrs Tabakovic. We're trying to defend the legal system that's broken, which, with these decisions, is really further collapsing. It seems to me, Mr Selakovic, that you were elected by the citizens to correct what is wrong, and there were things that are wrong, that we understand each other immediately, and the DS party is not satisfied with everything that remains in the judiciary, but we are satisfied with some things that have nevertheless significantly improved the Serbian judiciary. It's obviously the political shift of Nate Mesarevic. I think she was very clearly and provenly announced by the senior SNS official Vladimir Cvian. He confirmed it himself through his own words, which has also been proven to be a political shift. And that the political decision was made to replace Nata Mesarevic and it is seen from the material, among other things, that the VCC court sent to the Justice Committee. More specifically, from the letter of office of High Court President in Belgrade on 22 January 2013, under number 46/13. Otherwise, one of the basics of our request for Mr. Cvian's replacement as chairman of the Justice Committee, sorry, constitutional issues. The initiative to submit a proposal for the termination of the post, Nate Mesarevic, was submitted by Justice Minister Selakovic to the High Council of the judiciary, which is also a fact. The reason set out in the initiative is an alleged decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia to make regarding the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 102(5). The law on judges passed on 20 December 2012, also at the SNS initiative. Therefore, SNS respected citizens have submitted an initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 102 paragraph 5. The law on judges, two and a half years later, the Constitutional Court adopts a decision when the minister of justice is right in the SNS. This is a blow, ladies and gentlemen to the independence of the judiciary and this blow by both executive and legislative authorities. For the first time in this country's history at the Justice Minister's initiative, the VX president is being replaced. Proposal for adoption, i.e. The termination of office was directed by the Serbian Parliament by an unauthorized proposing, as some of my colleagues have already mentioned several times. Namely, the Supreme Council of the judiciary does not have the right to submit such a proposal. The assembly had to reject this proposal and cannot discuss it. According to Article 13. The Law on the VCC established jurisdiction on the High Council of the Judiciary and states in that article that this Council can submit for the election and resolution of the president of the VCC, but not a proposal to suspend the post of president of the VCC. According to Article 79(3), The Law on Judges of the President of the VCC ceases its function before the end of time, and we have repeatedly said that, at the personal request of the termination of the court's office, by discharge under this law for the prescribed reasons. In this particular case, ladies and gentlemen, the High Judicial Council has proposed the termination of the post under Article 79, which reads - the decision to terminate the post of President of the VCC for other reasons is taken by the National Assembly. It is obvious that it does not say that the proposal can give the High Council to the judiciary, otherwise this provision refers to the situation, several times so far, when it ceases on a personal request etc. Or God forbid it comes to death. So, from this unequivocally, that the High Council of the Judiciary can only make a motion to resolve the functions of the president in this case, the VCC which has absolutely not happened here. So these are the shortest legal reasons that you can bring down here with a thought-out, trendy, technical appearance in order to confuse and this completely confused citizens of Serbia. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you came up with the idea of taking advantage of a certain space that exists in the law and so get rid of Nate Mesarevic. Why did you do it? Now we come to political reasons that seem much more important to me for this whole debate. In fact, Mr. Cvian, who is the chairman of the Committee, I hope not for much longer this Assembly, and this has been proven both by the Assembly and the competent services, and not by the DS, I underline, has directly pressured the judiciary in favour of one of its clients with the intention of letting him out of custody. It is not of any importance now, but of the importance that he is personally to the judge in charge, and before that, his authority in some way said that Mrs Mesarevic would no longer be the president of the VCC and that a political decision was made on what he, of course, did in our opinion, also committed a criminal act, proving that he was unworthy to act as chairman of the Committee, which led to a conflict of interest. If a man who sends judges letters with a SNS head does not press the judiciary, if a man who shares his cards to judges does not press the judiciary, but a man who in the media in the countless titles that I have brought here shows that Nata Mesarevic is at the head of the judicial mafia, that it is a disaster, how corrupt this woman is, how this woman cannot do it because she has committed crimes, she has acted unworthyly, etc. Then, gentlemen, a request for a discharge should be made, if some of the elements Mr. Cvian made very publicly available. Please, the DS defends the principle of law and constitution. You can't get rid of a woman who's very upset with you. Why does it bother you? What's the legal basis for her shift? What is the basis of the inadequacy of function? What did she do to make you justify this? The Constitutional Court has made a decision on a member of the law, not on the election. You know, Mr. Selakovic, it's not the same thing. You should have changed the law, and we would have supported you, not to come here, to execute Nate Mesarevic. Otherwise, I repeat, her work, her qualities or her unquality should not be judged by us, but we should judge when you come to this assembly with this engaged legal maneuver that is harmful to our, otherwise, gravely ill judicial system. In this country, the independence of the judiciary has been established. What judge after this, Mr. Selakovic, will be allowed to judge anything at all, any client of Mr. Cvian? Which judge, you now tell the public Serbian citizens, that you personally guarantee, because you also have an influence on the Constitutional Court as you have said, which you cannot. Tell me which judge will it be when some Cvian's client steals the gum he'll have to pay for it. That's what I predict. These are the people who are conducting your judicial reform. You've done a great thing, though. I have to take advantage of your presence. You've brought amnesty for many criminals in this country. Today in our stadiums, there's a mess of people you've amnested. The people who've been pushing torches into the mouth are now at large, Mr. Selakovic. I will remind you, what you are doing with Nata Mesarevic, I underline, is not a question of Nate Mesarevic, but a matter of trying to preserve the independence of our judiciary. You're breaking this brutally, you have no basis, I repeat, for a move like this. Change the law, ask for a solution. You have no right to do this. This is just a legally inconclusive thing. This is legal violence and abuse, and as Mr Petrovic of JS says, we have a majority, we don't care. You know what, does that mean the 200, how many judges you've joined the SNS, is that what Serbian citizens should expect? Are you sure that Mr. Vukic, your president approves? I really don't know how to fight crime and corruption, and to stay in all directions, uncompromising. So where will she be uncompromising, if Cvian enters any courtroom in this country after such a shameful decision. And it's a woman. Now we come to one metaphysical argument. This is the woman, Mr Selakovic, who condemned the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. Now, since there is no hypersensitivity in former radicals, I must say, in every honest citizen of this country, there is a suspicion that someone might be waging their own war with that woman. Someone to get their revenge on that woman. You're a representative of the executive government. Disassuate us. Tell the public it's not true. Tell the public that Mr. Antic behind you has the warmest feelings for Nati Mesarovic. Be a man, look the citizens in the eyes. You came to these congregations, you didn't say a word. Now look and say that's not true. Now in front of all of us, tell us, neither Antiæ nor I personally, absolutely have, but what we support more is that she condemned the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. Tell me you love her for condemning the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. Can you do that? I'm afraid you can't. If you may do the honors. That's the problem. It's a problem that your political will through the legal tie of a billion words and phrases that no one alive in this country understands, except maybe 30 of us here. You're trying to hide what's behind this. There are Cvian methods in the judiciary, Mr. Selakovic. There's a way into the courtroom with a leg. It's 300 judges from the SNS. It says that your reform ended the day you held the rally. It is to abolish the court in Kosovo Mitrovica. It's behind all this. That's what the DS scares us, because I don't know if we'll have time to stop you, until the quick-coming elections to the benefit of Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12300	Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12301	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't believe there's a normal man in the Republic of Serbia who's comfortable living in a country where a government president was killed a decade ago. So no one who is a citizen of this country can approve. No one who is a normal citizen of this country, a savestan citizen of this country, can salute or approve of the murder of a holder of such a high-ranking public authority. So, I'm sorry that you're putting me in a situation where you're trying to tell me, first into my brain, and then in the words of approval of something like that. On the other hand, I'm happy that this country and its judiciary have been able to kill a man who was in such a high place, adequately condemned and punished. I have absolutely no problem saying that. And whoever has a problem saying that would have a problem with himself. Because it was a gunshot to Serbia and to someone who was in such a high position. If you followed my presentation at the beginning, that personal note to this procedure, I didn't give a single letter of my own. What's more, I said the current president of the Supreme Cassation Court remains the judge of that court. The verdict you mentioned, I don't want to comment, because I don't want to comment on the verdicts. And I don't want to, either, speak for someone who's not here, because I'm nobody's lawyer. I speak for myself. I speak here before you both as Minister of Justice and State Administration and as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. What I would refer you to if you disputed the legitimacy of the High Council of the Judiciary, and on the basis of the provisions contained in Article 13. The High Council Act, which determines jurisdiction. And there are ladies and gentlemen MPs, the Constitution older than the law. In Article 154. The constitution states that the High Council of the Judiciary chooses and resolves judges in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It proposes to the National Assembly the choice of judges during the first election of the judge. It proposes to the National Assembly the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and the President of the Courts in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It participates in the procedure for the termination of the office of President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the Court in the manner provided for by the Constitution and by law, it also performs other tasks under a certain law. Therefore, the High Council of the judiciary participates in the procedure for the termination of office. That was left out in Article 13. The law on the High Council of the Judiciary. Another piece of evidence that testifies to the inaccuracy of our laws and often the fact that laws miss something that is an element of the Constitution itself and constitutional provisions. As for what you were just talking about, some personal approach, or you called it political, this whole problem. You know, there's another flaw that allows a representative in the High Council of the Judiciary to sit in the line of attorneys who can work at the same time on his legal profession. Which means today he's sitting in the High Council picking judges, and tomorrow he's going to court before the council he's chairing, or he's a member of the man he picked out yesterday. All this points to inaccuracies, failures, bad solutions that contain our laws. But where we don't have a well-regulated, or a missed question in law, let's look at the Constitution. So, in Article 154. The constitution states explicitly that the High Judicial Council participates in the process of termination of office, decision-making on termination of office. I'm not standing on that, that this is a political shift, because just because someone becomes the Supreme Cassation Court's judge, tomorrow with respect to the Constitution of the prescribed procedure, can again be elected President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Now we have a general session. Here, let's respect the Constitution as it stands in it, and ask for the opinion of the General Sessions. Let's get things back on track to the Constitution and the law. Yes, the High Council of the Judiciary has legitimacy, yes, I have initiated the launch of this proposal. Why? Because I'm a member of the High Court Council. Did I come out of my constitution and the law of prescribed jurisdiction? I didn't. I've awaited the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court's decision was published. And the one thing that an SVM MP has said here, which I really want to mention and underline -- is that it was most natural after such a decision by the Constitutional Court, to expect a personal gesture from someone who is the current president of the Supreme Cassation Court. If we said that such a person should face the knowledge of rights, the Constitution and the law, respect for the applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia, then that should have been expected. Since the publication of the Constitutional Court Decision, it has been almost a month and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12302	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12303	In accordance with Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12305	Only by article 107 regarding dignity, because if we respect all MPs, then I think that if we read Article 154 here, and especially if we are suggesting that we explain on the expert side a matter, that we should clarify that the question of participation of the High Council of the Judiciary in the process of termination. This is not about the entry into force of the law of the prescribed conditions for the termination of the judicial office, but about the procedure for the decision for the legal reasons laid down for the resolution of the President of the Court, which is defined in a certain way and in which case the term of office of the President may be terminated.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12306	Mr. Mikovic, you're replicating. You're abusers of the Rules of Procedure. You know what my duties are in the Rules of Procedure, to take away your time from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12307	If you think it isn't, but I think if I'm giving an explanation, especially if I'm giving an explanation of the High Court Council, then we need to be precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12308	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that representatives of the former regime want to portray this as political rematchism. I was a national MP who participated in the government, in making a decision, i.e. when making the election of the government of Zoran Djindjic. I voted against him, I disagreed with his policy. I fought against his politics, and I was not pleased with his death, nor with anyone normal can look forward to it, so don't respect it. I know that later there was the choice of another government and that some of them were celebrating. I'm not. In that lower building, it was celebrated by those who are now most often sheltered behind his image and act. The choice of the new government of Zoran Zivkovic is, millions of citizens, in front of the cameras, were not excluded. When it comes to the story that Nati Mesarovic is being consecrated by the murderers Zoran Djindjic, he simply does not stand, as it does not seem that a good man can be a good judge, and a good judge can be a good judge. However, here it is not the procedure to dismiss the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, but the procedure to execute the Constitutional Court's decision, and we need to separate it immediately. What surprises me most is that some MPs are calling her to the provisions of the law and the Constitution... (President: Time. ) I said – as head of the parliamentary group, to speak Can I continue as my boss now? [[President: you didn't get a word for the replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12310	Now you can't do this part. Thank you. The word has Mr. Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12311	Yes, Mr. Arsic and Mr. Minister, but this is not a question of your emotional relationship with the late Zoran Djindjic, but of your relationship with his murderers. When we're here talking about that every normal man can't... (President: Mr Stefanovic, I remind you that we should all respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to take care of expressions. That was the answer, I have to answer. So, Minister Selakovic, to explain one thing, I don't insult anyone when I say he's a murderer, because he was convicted of this act, first to teach you. Secondly, it is said here that every normal man I repeat can have no other relationship, but the most negative to the murder of the Prime Minister. I remind you that Mr Selakovic and you too, Mr Arsic, that President Tomislav Nikolic, acting as SNS President, dear citizens, said – when we come to power, we will review the verdict of the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. Did he say that? Yes, he did. Then either he doesn't hear what you're saying to me here today, or you don't hear your former president of the party, and now the President of the Republic. So be honest and tell me now is that true? Do any citizen of this country, no matter what her name is, Nata Mesarevic, believe that we don't care who she calls, may not suspect, when you've already let so many criminals out of prison create chaos in Serbia, when the president pardoned a mass murderer, a man from Leskovec, then I don't know how many, 30 years ago, that no one has asked in this country what they think about it? About the Temerin Group not to talk. It's a game of justice, that's what you forgot to the citizens of the campaign to promise, that you'll play with the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12312	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising members 107 and 106. The Rules of Procedure - at the National Assembly session are not allowed directly to address the People's MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, etc. The previous speaker did just that, and I keep trying to prove that there are two Rules of Procedures here. One's for power, one's for opposition, just unlike the last call, now the situation has turned. What was once forbidden to the opposition is now forbidden to the ruling coalition. So, still chairing, and I think and consider some of my colleagues, there is too much of a mild attitude towards the opposition, or that they are allowed to do all sorts of things. Here on the agenda, which is Article 106, is the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision, it's no shift. So all the time speakers don't stick to agenda topics. When they are not, I will ask them – why did Nata Mesarevic participate in the condemnation of the late Mr. Curuvija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12314	Mr. Risticevic, I understand the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. So I didn't violate Articles 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. I see that on both sides of the position and side of the opposition there are always accusations that I am on the other side. I hope you all see that that's not the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12315	I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12316	Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Do any of the presidents or authorized representatives want a word? National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, present members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I would be very pleased that this level of expert debate that could have been heard in the previous part of the session could have been heard in the adoption of the Law on Judges, because if we had had had that level of expert debate then we would not be in the situation we are in today. I must say, before this debate was opened in the National Assembly, it took the situation of a non-academic debate and I would say a few individuals' personal accounting, probably considering this topic to be very fruitful to pick up political points. We don't see it that way and our position on this and every next principle issue will be completely different. This is something that should never have happened, because the principle issue of fundamental importance for the functioning of the judicial system comes down to the level of charsy bickering, sensations and large media performances, which is for the essence and purpose of destroying even such a bad situation in the judiciary. Because of such treatment of this topic, everyone in this society felt free and own to participate in this debate, to make a kind of seal to understand this topic, which I most deeply find unacceptable because in this way only one is achieved, the importance of the institutions of this country is undermined, and it is also broader to lead to the weakening of the entire state system and that is something that DSS MPs will never do. We haven't done it in the past, we won't do it now. That is why, with one dose of necessary seriousness, we will approach this issue today, driven exclusively by arguments and principles. Today, you will most often hear from the DSS MPs the discussion that Mrs Nata Mesarovic performed, not her name, because her name and what she did and how she did is not a topic for today's debate. Each of us has the right to enter into that kind of debate, but we indicated it in time. If you'd listened to us, not you, Mr. Minister, because you weren't able to hear us at the time, it was already the previous minister, you would have a legal perfect situation today. We have to go from the beginning. On 30 November 2009, the National Assembly decided on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court without a preliminary opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court, which represented one of the basic preconditions for such an election at all. I'll remind you that at that moment, the Supreme Court of Cassation in the judicial system did not exist. It was formed only a month after the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on 1 January 2010, when a new judicial network came into force. Mrs. Nata Mesarovic was not elected in a constitutional and legal manner, which is not a finding and that is good because then she would question the legal importance of all the decisions she has signed, but was elected as a court that does not exist at that time. She was the president of a court of non-existent in the period from 30 November 2009 to 1 January 2010. To this legal inadequacy, I must say with great pleasure today, only the DSS MPs pointed out. We are today the only parliamentary club in this assembly of parliament that has pointed to legal shortcomings. Mr. Arsic is angry. I was very precise to say that the SNS Parliament Club was not presented under that name. We pointed out legal shortcomings, the illogical nature of such a single choice. Of course, at that point, no one was interested. If you were interested, for the third time today I repeat, we wouldn't be in this situation. Today, three and a half years after the election, we are trying to correct the mistake that we have made in this House as bad, but, gentlemen, we are not doing it in a legally perfect way today. The proposal we have ahead of us is a proposal from the High Council of Justice, not a legally perfect way to reach a satisfactory decision. The High Council of the judiciary, with due respect for the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary present, and the explanation given by the minister cannot be the proponent of one act, because jurisdiction in this case of the High Council of the judiciary is defined by the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, where it may appear as a proposing for choice or resolution. I hope that we are not discussing resolution today, because I am saying that in this situation we would question all decisions that Mrs. Nata Mesarovic signed while she was in the position of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So today we have to determine the termination of its function in a legally satisfactory way. I have every right to say this, because before this session was scheduled or before the end of this agenda, at the session of the Justice Committee, I have offered a legally acceptable solution, which is that the National Assembly, given the Constitutional Court's decision, only determines the end of the term of office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In this situation, we would have a legally perfect situation and no one today would call for the possible illegality of making such a decision. We'd be absolutely legally clean. I simply express that as my opinion, that I would not personally participate in this debate, and I believe that would be the attitude and majority of the MPs. I don't know why it wasn't accepted. I'm very sorry that didn't happen. I have to say one thing, that all these legal disadvantages that we were pointing to at the time, which, of course, are not taken into account and the arguments that are being made today when it comes to the termination or finding of the term of office of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, I can't call them principled, but I call them directly unencipient. I feel free to say that I call all such allegations hypocritical for a simple reason that if someone at the moment of the election Mrs Nate Mesarovic did not mind the way he was elected, how can today be called for legal disadvantages and shortcomings at the moment when we are talking about legal perfection. I personally find that unacceptable. This decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court without obtaining the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court and without the existence of a court at the time when a series of illegal decisions by the High Council of the Judiciary came and served them as an alibi for such action. I will also tell you to repeat in this House who knows how many times, that our position on the conduct of the High Council of the judiciary has been clear since the beginning. That's what we pointed to when it was time to point out. We believe that they have brought their actions into legality not only when it comes to re-election of judges, but many other decisions have come under the influence of their actions. So, not only has the re-election been carried out in a non-transparent way, with the absence of any normal measurable criteria, but I must tell you that the High Council of the Judiciary has often acted in incomplete composition, where the judges were minority, which is directly contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision which spoke of the need for most members of the Supreme Council of the Judges' Order. Should I mention this today in Serbia for more than three years we have not elected presidents of the courts, but that most of them are in V.D. A condition? These were all provisions, i.e. decisions that had to be made by the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Not to mention that not even the body that was valued by judges unselected nor the criteria and criteria were established on the basis of which judges, judicial work or judicial duty were valued. I've held my position on the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary before. I believe that even today, if it is necessary to change it as a complete composition of the High Council of the Judiciary, because it is impossible for the rule of law to build with those who have constantly violated and wronged the principles of functioning of the same rule of law. In addition, I cannot agree with the finding that today should weigh in this debate, which is that Nata Mesarevic is the only one responsible for the collapse of judicial reform and for the very bad situation in the judiciary that is today. Its responsibility is beyond doubt and must be known, but it is one link in a number of others responsible for the lack of judicial reform. I fear that insistence on her, exclusively her responsibility, is lauded by the responsibility of those rightly responsible for the lack of judicial reform, which is DS and former justice minister Mrs. Malovic. If the intention to amnesty is the responsibility of those most responsible, I consider it exclusively politically unencumbered, politically transparent, and I would say shortsighted. I think it's necessary for everyone in this country today to bear the consequences and responsibility for what he's done. We have to call those responsible to the right name. We all have to insist on responsibilities, because that's the only way we can become a better society. When it comes to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, it is expected for the DSS MPs, but I must say that it is too late. If, in considering the Law on Judges, in addition to this decision and the provision declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional, we also pointed to other provisions of the same law, we expressed doubts about its illegality, and if we knew then, then the Serbian Constitutional Court had to know long before we knew that the decision was unconstitutional. Of course, we have not only expressed our doubts about the provisions of this law, but we have expressed our doubts about the constitutionality and legality of the minority of every phase in the judicial reform process, but we are asking one other question here. The question is, would the Serbian Constitutional Court have decided at all about this matter if it hadn't been for a change in government? That's the key question. What is the constitutional legal fate of the regulations resulting from the Brussels agreements? Will that decision be found on the agenda of the Constitutional Court someday when there is a change in power? We are particularly interested in whether the constitutional court considers the name and last name of the applicant for the assessment of constitutionality or whether it is more important to resolve constitutional legal matters? It seems to me that this selectiveness in selecting objects that are allowed to be handled, the Constitutional Court itself violates the principles of defence of constitutionality and legality much more than any individual today. It would be very interesting to hear the answers to the question of what are the criteria that the Constitutional Court of Serbia says are urgent. Is it possible that the decision in this legal old man required much more urgency in deciding than the state border issue? Is that possible today? On the other hand, Mr. Minister, we have several times pointed out that the Constitutional Court should not have stopped with regard to establishing the constitutionality and legality of those four disputed regulations stemming from the Brussels agreements. In particular, he could not stand in the process of the Justice Ministry's order, as the minister of justice was treated in the process as an unauthorized body. Not only did he pause in this regard, but he refused to decide on a temporary measure to which he was obliged to deal with urgency because it was a temporary measure. An even more drastic example is a decision on the Statute of Vojvodina that has been waiting more than three years to be considered. We entered the fourth year the other day and the Constitutional Court has yet to give a single word on this issue. All this says that the Constitutional Court does not work under the mandate of the protection of constitutionality and legality, but protects the will of the executive authorities and that is something that is very bad. At the very end of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, no matter what composition it was made in any procedure, must be respected. No one in this room should question her today. What's on us as ambassadors is to find a legally valid way to respect it. Not because I insist that we be legally perfect, I am here primarily talking about good intentions, but because today-to-morrow this decision of the National Assembly would not come under the influence of those who at this point are very large targets, and calling for legality in our decision-making. I think the goal of all of us here today is to make sure the institutions function freely, to be unburdened, and not to be afraid of the possible rebuke of the executive government. Only then can we create a legal state in which the rule of law truly rules because in this way the right of every individual and only in this situation will be protected. I hope that this debate today, which should represent the removal of the mistakes that we MPs in this House have brought and made because we have made a mistake by adopting a bad law, will make us all more responsible political beings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12319	After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Bojan Jakovljevic, elected from the electoral list "Let's move Serbia" – Tomislav Nikolic (SNS, New Serbia, Association of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Entrepreneurs of Serbia, Coalition of the Association of Refugees in the Republic of Serbia, Movement of Serbia-BK Force, People's Peasant Party, Bosniak People's Party, Democratic Party of Macedonians, Roma Party, Movement of Vlach Unification, Movement of Socialists, Movement of Business Revival of Serbia). On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Bojan Jakovljevic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia with the truth and justice. "I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. We're continuing our work. Does any of the presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the desire of parties who do not participate in the government to make this story about this proposal, which has been delivered to us by the High Council of the Court of Justice as a political retaliatory. In the process itself, however, there is no "P" of politics but exclusively the National Assembly fulfils its constitutional obligation. That the entire election procedure of the Supreme Cassation Court President was not in accordance with the law or the Constitution... I will no longer be involved in politics, for at least a few minutes, but I will read the members of the law as they say and as they are done, I will read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Constitutional Court, the Law on Judges, and try to explain to the citizens of Serbia what this is really about. In Article 79. The Law on Judges, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court among the judges of that court, is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected for a period of five years and cannot be re-elected. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court shall cease his post before the expiry of the time on which he has been elected at a personal request, by the termination of the court's office or by the resolution provided for in this law, by the law of the prescribed reasons for the dissuasion of the President of the Court. There's no court president's release here. The procedure for resolving the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is being initiated by a general session proposal. I'm deliberately reading the whole article because many people are calling. The procedure for determining the reasons for the resolution of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court shall lead and the decision shall be taken by the High Council of the judiciary. The decision to dismiss the President of the Supreme Cassation Court from that post shall be taken by the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary. The final position 7 states that the decision to terminate the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court for other reasons is made by the National Assembly. Since it does not say in the last position – in accordance with this law, you cannot apply the provisions of this law by the methodology many often call upon, but other conditions which may be the legal basis for the termination of the office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It is also somewhat surprising that someone calls for a position of 4 that is not the subject of this debate, while forgetting the position of the 1st member under which the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. If anyone wants to be called to position four, first they must be called to position one, which is not respected. What is the legal basis for not being a respected member of Article 79(1)? Because in Article 102, which is, meanwhile, challenged by the Constitutional Court, not entirely, the High Council of the judiciary does not appoint the acting judge among the judges elected under this law. The President of the Court of Justice of the 1st of this Member's office shall take office on 1 January 2010. The acting President of the Court shall perform this post until the election of the President of the Court in accordance with this law. The Presidents of the Courts shall be elected in accordance with this law within three months of the expiry of the period set out in Article 2(2). The final position 5, which has been announced by the Constitutional Court's decision on unconstitutional votes is exceptional from the provisions of Article 1 to the position of the Fourth President of the Supreme Cassation Court, shall be elected within 90 days of the date of the establishment of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court shall elect the National Assembly, among the persons who meet the conditions for selecting the judges of that court, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, in the opinion of the National Assembly's competent committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's see what the Constitutional Court says about this famous Article 102, paragraph 5. The Constitutional Court says -- that provision of the Constitution, Article 144(1), found that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court elects the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, which is as a new independent and independent body established by the 2006 Constitution. The same constitutional provision found that the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was carried out in accordance with the attached opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, this is not in this procedure for the election of the President of this court, and of the National Assembly's committee. Therefore, obtaining an opinion on the proposed candidate for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court by the General Session of the Court and the Competent Committee of the National Assembly is a mandatory phase in the selection process of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The Constitutional Court has found that the election procedure of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is not in a different way determined by the Constitutional Law, because the Constitutional Law of Article 7(1) only provides that within 90 days from the date of the establishment of the High Council of the Court of Justice the President of the Supreme Cassation Court must be elected. If you had a majority then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why didn't you respect that constitutional law provision? By contrast, the legislator shall, when prescribing the selection procedure for the first President of the Supreme Cassation Court, be contested by Article 102 paragraph 5. The law on judges left out the mandatory phase of obtaining the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court in the process of proposing candidates for the President of this court. In addition to the above, given that the provision of Article 143 is paragraph 2. The Constitution found that the organisation, jurisdiction, regulation and composition of courts were governed by law and that as a general rule in the Law on Judges found that the National Assembly elected the President of the Supreme Cassation Court among the judges of that court, the Constitutional Court assessed that the contested provision of Article 102 paragraph 5 of the Law violated the unity of the legal order laid down in Article 4(1). The Constitution. Is there anything else I should read about the Constitutional Court's decision? Is this the obligation of the National Assembly to do, since Article 102 paragraph 5, which you are calling upon, is challenged, by Article 166 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been found to be final, executive and general binding decisions of the Constitutional Court. There's no discussion that we don't have to do this. This has to be done. Article 171(1) The constitution, that everyone is obliged to respect and enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court, is now being done by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, Article 104. The Constitutional Court Act is normised that state and other bodies, organisations entrusted with public authority, political parties, trade union organisations, associations of citizens or religious communities, are obliged to exercise decisions and decisions of the Constitutional Court under their rights and duties. There is a legal basis for this debate now under way. The former government, or DS, wouldn't be what it is that whenever it tries to do something, it does that it's not only not in accordance with the Constitution, it's not in accordance with the law. Here's the initial act of the High Council of the Judiciary. According to this initial act, "Article 13(4) states: Law on the High Council of the judiciary and Article 102, paragraph 5. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Court of Justice, on 11 November 2009, set out a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and proposed an appraisal for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In addition, we present a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, with an explanation." The same body, after establishing a proposal to be a candidate for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, also consists of a proposal for a decision on selection and a reference to the National Assembly, and the proposal reads: "Article 102(5) states: The Law on Judges and Article 181(4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 30 November 2009 decided on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court." Suddenly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's something else entirely in the Official Messenger. Some people think it's funny, especially when they're doing it right. They should be ashamed. The "officer of the Office" reads: "Article 144(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, made a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court." It's obvious someone very skilled, very capable of making the situation more complicated anyway. In particular, he should have been ashamed because he also served as a lawyer and was a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and was chairman of the Justice Committee. It shall amend its proposal at a session of the Committee. I quote stenographic notes from the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 27 November 2009: "As we first give an opinion, and on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, we need to agree on the form of how we will refer it to the Assembly. I think the law says that we are giving an opinion and that we need to make it clear whether we support the election of a president or not to support a candidate for the election of a Supreme Cassation Court president. So it should either be positive or negative. I don't think any lack of a positive or negative opinion can ensure a further procedure of choice. Since a proposal has been made here by the High Council of the Court to make a decision on the choice in the form of a legal act, I think we should make sure that we have an opinion that the Assembly will make the choice, and the Assembly will, in accordance with its internal rules, therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, make a decision in the form that satisfies the choice and publication of such a decision in the "Official Messenger". The one who said this had two facts in mind – that Article 144(1) was not respected. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "The President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly, in the general opinion of the session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the committee of the National Assembly." It is a shame to call upon the provision of Article 144(1). The constitution, which publishes such a decision in "The Official Messenger", does not respect the same member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To make things worse, it's a lawyer, a lawyer and a chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee. I don't mention a name because I don't see it among the MPs right now. Furthermore, you have another problem, which is that in this initial act addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the High Council of the judiciary you cannot apply Article 102 paragraph 5. The law on judges, not only because it did not comply with the Constitution, which was also known, but it did not even come into force, was not in force. This is a document from November of 2009. The Act on Transition and Final Provisions shall apply from 1 January 2010. Where were you in such a hurry? You are here to blame yourself for putting the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court in such a difficult political and professional situation, not us, but you. Anyone who participated in this at least owes an apology to the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court for all that is happening in this assembly. So there's not a word here about the current President of the Supreme Casation Court being resolved, but his office as President of the Supreme Cassation Court is ending. We are certainly not eager for any revenge, because we have nothing to give to the current president, because he remains a judge, on the one hand. On the other hand, no one is defending the current president from fulfilling the procedure provided for in Article 79(1). The Law on Judges, Article 144(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to run, to meet the procedure and to be the subject of a new debate here in the Assembly, but in accordance with the law and with the Constitution. Someone even said, change the law. The laws are not written for an individual, these are general acts that must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also very important, when it comes to counterfeiting addressed to the National Assembly, which was published in the "Official Messenger", the same lawyer forgot one thing – there is no direct application of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a fundamental legal act and stems from laws that must comply with the Constitution. This was only done because Article 102 paragraph 5 was unconstitutional, and the Law on Judges has not yet been implemented, so it was wanted to avoid the assessment of the constitutionality of such a way of electing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Let me repeat, Article 166(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has established decisions of the Constitutional Court - final, executive, general binding, Article 171(1). – everyone is obliged to respect and enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court, Article 104. – The Constitutional Court Act norms that the State and other bodies and organisations entrusted with public powers, etc., enforces and respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, as responsible MPs, we will implement the Constitutional Court's decision and in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposal sent by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, for the reason that we must respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12321	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Stefanovic, I assume you want a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12322	Mr Arsic, first of all, I appreciate the situation in which your MPs applaud, even though I know as well as no one living here in this room, nor those who look at us over little screens, and neither you at least understand what you said. Please, in the interest of proper parliamentary debates and finding problems, or to bring down the discussion in an understandable form and to us who are not at your level, including your MPs, or to answer the questions that we have asked very precisely. I'm sure you're conducting a survey here in the O.R., including, first of all, you and your MPs, I'm really not sure anyone understands what you're talking about here right now. So, forgeries and deadlines, it's all fine and legitimate. I'm not slow, you've used your time. I really don't argue with that. But basic questions were asked by both DS and LDP, and you did not answer. It doesn't matter what the judge's name is. Don't you really see what you're doing is really against both the Constitution and the law, but for political reasons, it's important for you to do it today in the Assembly. It's fairer to say so. Wait, we have MPs, too, and Mr. Mikovic can answer the same thing to explain to you all those members. If you think that's what it takes for you to get burned up, we've got someone to report for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12323	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that a man who is a lawyer does not understand the members of the law, members of the Constitution. That seems to be the problem. I did not speak any other language, I did not read some foreign laws, but the laws passed by this congregation. I read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was also confirmed by the people in the referendum and there is nothing incomprehensible about it. There is only one saying in the people: they are free to whisper with deafness, and to wink at a dead end. Anyone who wants to understand, understands, who doesn't have to. That's his problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12325	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Đorđe Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12326	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have four proposals for decisions in the framework of a joint single debate. Not wanting to reduce the importance and importance of all the proposed decisions, in a few words and a few sentences in its presentation, to put the accent on what I believe to have an exceptional importance and importance at the moment, which is the proposal for a decision of the High Council of the judiciary. The SPS parliamentary group wants to support the proposal for a decision by the High Council of the judiciary on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In support of this proposal by the High Council of the judiciary, we actually want to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia made it very clear and explicit on 20 December 2012 that the disputed provisions of the Law on Judges under which, among other things, the first President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected, were disputed, i.e. they were unconstitutional and were not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In support of this proposal by the High Council of the judiciary, we actually want to conclude in the Republic Parliament what the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has said very clearly. As far as the SPS MPs' club is concerned, I would like to say that we believe that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. It's perfectly normal and logical for a legal state. I guess it's normal for every state authority, I guess, to have high judicial cases, representatives of high judicial cases respect the constitutional order. If it's not normal and logical and if it's not happening, then there really is one serious problem. This isn't a political issue for us. This decision by the High Council of the judiciary is not a political issue and we do not want to politicise this issue, to bring it to the level of day-to-day policy issues, because we understand the importance and importance of the decision, the importance and importance of the function that we are talking about today, among other things. On the other hand, of course we understand both the importance and importance of judicial reform in Serbia. We agree with the findings that could be heard in this opening part of today's debate, that the reform of the judiciary has not produced the desired results, that the Serbian judiciary is, unfortunately, in a poor state and is not at an envious level, that the entire judiciary is in vd status. Today we're talking about, I mean, the only president of the court. Unfortunately, the entire judiciary is in vd status. What we expect, as a parliamentary club, is an argument, a clear and realistic analysis of the situation in the Serbian judiciary today by the resolution ministry, as well as very precise and clearly defined next steps. So what is it that we all need to do together in the next period of time to realize what is our, together, ultimate goal, and this is a modern and efficient judiciary, namely a modern and efficient judicial system, an independent and professional judiciary with complete integrity. So that we have the judiciary that Serbian citizens will believe in, that is, to restore citizens' confidence in Serbia's judicial system. Of course, judicial reform is one of the most important reforms at the moment. Depending on the process of European integration, independent of the European path Serbia needs and must continue to go successfully in the next period of time, some things especially in the area of justice should be done for our own sake, because of Serbia, because of the citizens of Serbia. Among other things, we talked about it more than once. The degree of democratisation of a society depends on the independence of the achieved level of independence of the judicial authority. Of course, it is important that we hear the answers to all the doubts that exist and that will be heard during today’s debate, all the open questions that exist, especially the question of re-election of judges. You need to correct the mistakes. Mistakes are taught and lessons learned from these mistakes, but correcting, turning back, one injustice, correcting some mistakes should not allow us to make any new mistakes in the next period of time. It seems to me that Serbia's judicial reform is wasting valuable time. This is an extremely important topic for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. So, places in the judicial system, as far as the SPS MPs' club is concerned, must not and should not be for those unprofessional and unconscious. This is a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary and what I want to say below is that both the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutor's Office should be a guarantee of judicial independence, i.e. public prosecutorial independence. So, right now, this is the position of the SPS parliamentary club, these institutions need to give one real basis for further building a democratic society. It was a matter of procedure. We'll agree to what Mr. Minister said in the opening statement. The High Council of the judiciary has the right and legitimacy to propose such a decision. What is extremely important is to create conditions for the conduct of elections in the way provided for by the Constitution and the existing laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12327	The word is made by MP Zoran Ostojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12328	Madam Chairman, I think the injured member is 107 - the dignity of the Assembly. You didn't react. Let me give this breach of the Rules of Procedure a little creatively. You see, the worst thing about politics and life is hypocrisy. Let's get some colleagues from the SNS. This isn't for them. They were against Mrs Mesarovic's election. Now they're in. (Chairman: Mr. I'll stay... Give me two minutes, please. The Democrats were... (President: Why did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? We've silenced the U.R.S. They voted for Nata Mesarevic. Now they say it's a breach of procedure. So, everyone else, we voted yes, and now we're going to vote against the shift. They voted yes, they'll vote against the shift. The DSS gentlemen were against it, now she'll probably vote for it. The SNS was against it, now they'll vote for the shift. The SPS, the URS and Ljajic's MPs, they voted once, the second time they say it's not politics. It is politics and their behavior is best seen as a real, essential policy. That is why I think that if hypocrisy is poured out in the Assembly, it still hurts Parliament's reputation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12329	With all due respect to you, Mr. Ostović, even though you tried creatively to interpret it, I didn't understand why I hurt Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Milicevic, since you are directly mentioned, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12330	I wouldn't interpret creative analysis, which we could hear during a little earlier exposure, but for the sake of the truth. So, we have supported Mrs. Nata Mesarevic, but we are not talking about Nata Mesarevic today. Today we are talking about respecting the Constitutional Court's decision of 20 December 2012. I will make it very clear again, I believe that all state authorities, high state institutions, representatives of these state institutions need and must respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It's perfectly logical and normal, if we're talking about the rule of law. There's not a word here about hypocrisy. As far as participation is concerned, we've voted, we don't argue. We have made it very clear that we respect the Constitutional Court's decisions. We have made it very clear that all the mistakes that have been made in the past time period should be corrected, lessons from these mistakes should be learned, but correcting these mistakes should not make any new mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12331	Thank you. Since we no longer have registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12332	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, surely I am not professionally prepared enough to contribute to this expert debate on how correct the motion for a decision to terminate the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court is. I am starting to assume that this proposal is based on valid arguments and that the main motivation of the promoters is to achieve constitutionality and legality in this area. From the position of the only Albanian representative of the Presevo Valley in the National Assembly, I support the principle of constitutionality and legality in this area, in general, even when it comes to the rights of national minorities, in this case the rights of the Albanian national minority, provided by the Constitution and the law. When it comes to the application of both Albanian language and letters in court proceedings, but also when it comes to adequate representation of Albanians in judicial institutions. As part of judicial institutions reform, when the current Supreme Cassation Court president was elected, there was a dramatic deterioration and so very inadequate representation of Albanians in judicial institutions. As a result, there has been an interruption of the practice of using Albanian language in court proceedings. The abolition of courts and public prosecutors in Presevo and Bujanovac has led to a very difficult situation for all citizens exposed to huge travel costs, which makes the judicial system irrational. (President: Mr. Halimi, come back on the subject. ) Just to circle this moment with the conclusion that the consequences of this reform, whose highest officials are at one of the most important functions, are catastrophic on the ground. It is not possible to discuss only the professional dimension and pass everything that is negative in that period. Of course, I would use, since it is also point 11, which speaks of a commission that should follow the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the UN Security Council resolution – women, peace and security in the Republic of Serbia, so I would point out in this respect the importance of monitoring the implementation of this resolution in general and throughout the territory of the state, and I think it is very important that it is applied to the land area of security in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, where unfortunately we still have, and after 12 years, after the relaxation of the land zone, which is allowed by NATO structure, the presence of the extraordinary military forces, and especially special forces of the police, which is why we have serious problems throughout the period and for the return of the displaced population during the war conflicts, but also for the survival of those who were at those times when the relaxation was created. Of course, I'd also mention this last provocation with a memory plate of gendarmes, because it's about the work that's being conducted with the presence of the gendarmes. The gendarme remains present near the Albanian village.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12333	You're out of time. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Svetislava Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12334	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, members of the High Council of the judiciary, the esteemed colleague and colleagues, I will try to address you in a slightly different way. In fact, I think it is also necessary for the citizens who are watching us, although my vote is the constitutional right to deal with what we are really dealing with today, which means by implementing a decision of the Constitutional Court. There are many mystifications regarding what the Constitutional Court is, what its decisions are, where the need for them to be executed, etc. That is why I feel the need to address the citizens of Serbia because of my long experience in dealing with these things and to try to explain what this is really about. So, what is the Constitutional Court? What kind of power is that? How does she define herself? The Constitutional Court is a very specific authority. It is hybrid by its nature, the legal-political authority, but certainly not the fourth authority to which other authorities in the state, such as legislative, executive and judicial authority, can impose as someone who can influence their jurisdiction. What is a fact, it is that the Constitutional Court is the body that decides on the constitutionality of the law, in addition to other powers, and in this particular case we are interested in it today. As such, he is an organ that must be under the Constitution itself. Therefore, the Constitutional Court is not a authority imposed on someone, it is simply a natural instrument for the balance of power, three basic authorities – legislative, executive and judicial. In that sense, it does not constitute an authority imposed on us for some metaphysical reasons. The need to bring legal order into line and remove unconstitutional inconsistencies from the legal order is undeniable. What's in this matter that we're dealing with here today is the fact that we're going to do what we do and who the Constitutional Court is actually talking to. The Constitutional Court says it's nice on its own. If you look a little more closely, it's interesting that no one mentioned that part of the Constitutional Court's constitutional decision. He says that, advertising the unconstitutional nature of the law we are talking about today, Article 102, paragraph 5, legal application of the contested provision of the law is completely exhausted by the first election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So that's how the Constitutional Court itself says that applying this standard is already consummated. So there was a legal situation that should be regulated legally and which should be tried in a legal manner. What is also very important is that the Constitutional Court is actually addressing us, the National Assembly. So he talks to the lawmaker and says, "You have passed a provision of a law that is unconstitutional." The authority that has to act on this is the National Assembly, not with all due respect, the High Council of the judiciary, nor its members, and at least its member by office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, so much before he is a dominant member of the executive government. Slagworth actually gave me a minister in my opening statement. I listened very carefully, he said it was legally illogical to discuss the Constitutional Court's decision. This cannot possibly be a matter, especially in this case where our constitutional court is an indisputable court which rarely performs its function as a so-called active court. So, a real constitutional court, and this will be the uncontested authority of constitutional and legal science, is the one who not only interprets the decisions of the law and considers the laws in relation to whether they are in conformity or not with the Constitution, but is trying to continue to interpret and develop the right to function as a unique organism. The Constitutional Court didn't decide that. Why he does not perform his creative role, we can discuss it. Why the creation of the Constitutional Court is missing somewhere and the reasons are also not too important for this debate today. What is important is that the application of this standard is in some way consummated by the very fact that the first President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected and that there is so much need to find a legal and logical solution that is based both in the Constitution and in the law, which I would especially draw attention to to Mr. Minister. What's also significant is that we shouldn't have any mystifications when it comes to finding reasons, legal grounds and the like for certain actions. Now we can kind of compete in who's more skillful, who's more prone to neck and acrobatics. I'm not inclined to do it myself. I think the solutions that are simplest are also the most often and legally purest. Since the Constitutional Court is addressing the National Assembly, it was clear that we would either try to start a new law change or some other way. Why don't you call it a settlement? You don't have to run from it. This acrobatic that speaks of the termination of function and specifically of calling as a legal basis, let's say, among other things, it fell into my eyes, to Article 202. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, Mr. Minister, I quote, have been called by a kind of procedural law, I hope it is a small matter, because that kind of legal act cannot be called a procedural law, and this final argument that you made just before the break, where you cited Article 154. The constitution and said that, in addition to that, if we are already trying to discuss whether the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court can be discussed in this way, it participates in the procedure. As you know yourself because you're a lawyer, the procedure has more phases, it's one initiation, and quite another course of action. Just so much about those procedural remarks. What's more important to me is why would you have to go this legal way, which would be logical and undeniable, to deal with it for political reasons? So you don't have to get away from it. If we are not also running away from the fact that the Constitutional Court is a legal-political body that is, in its way, a couple of excellency legal bodies, but by the effects of its operation, a couple of excels is a political body, because it interferes with what is the governing body, then I think it is politically necessary for you to deal with this issue of how to find adequate legal ways, not entering your political inspirations, ambitions and so forth. If your ambition, which I really believe in, is that it is necessary to continue reforming the judiciary, even to revise it, you have spoken of it many times in public, why not? But is the right way of personal restoration or some kind of structural reconstruction, an institutional renewal, that will somehow stop these pressures on judicial authority. How long with the politicization of the judiciary? How long can these experiments last? How long can that judiciary last any longer? Why the new hasty solutions? Why the new procedures and regulations again? I think it's high time we all asked ourselves in some way whether it's time for the executive and legislative authority, and that's what we are here, to sort of give up the practice of pressure on the judicial authorities. Which, I must say, your own judicial authorities would have to somehow show a way to resist these pressures. I still don't see it, either. What's also significant, and that's that the whole picture is losing something that's, let's say, not just a structural, personal renewal. Where will you find all this money? How do you open a budget for all these things that are now being opened? So where are the human resources that can respond to these incredible needs that exist when it comes to our judicial system? What is very rarely mentioned here or rarely mentioned only by members of the opposition, most often by the LDP, and that is -- how to overcome this thing, these kinds of defects that actually come from the very text of the Constitution, why hide it? How can we even start answering these questions without a thorough revision of the constitutional system? I believe I deeply believe that we are all interested in dealing with this in a serious way. I really think that developing right for the purpose of politics, because this is the life that we all live, can't be more important to all of us, to any political party or way of thinking that we belong. I simply feel it is necessary on this side and as someone who is engaged in constitutional law, to invite you not to go about removing wrongs. So, to debate something that is the issue of the Constitution, the application of the Constitution, the application of constitutional and judicial laws, the character of constitutional and judicial decisions, everything that actually seems to be the right to further develop is a debate that is more, it seems to me, rather than ever needed in this society, in which political authority has a strong and completely hidden tendency to instrumentise justice and in any case puts it in immediate danger, regardless of the prominent good intentions, in which I, taking the facts, am not even inclined to suspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12335	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12336	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, honourable MPs, we are facing today a joint single debate on the proposal for four decisions and the subject of the interest and debate of the MPs today in parliament is only a largely motion for a decision on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. As far as NS is concerned, I just want to say briefly that they have always been for the NS and there will always be decisions of the Constitutional Court binding. For us, this proposal for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court is not a political issue. First of all, in my presentation, I will look back and point out the importance of Resolution 1325, which it also plays the supervisory role of parliament, which is very important in its further implementation. I think that Serbia, after accepting Resolution 1325 and drawing up the National Action Plan, with the supervisory role and composition of the commission proposed, has moved on. I believe that we must not forget the fact and that we should point out that UN resolutions, and in particular the General Assembly, are non-binding nature, that their primary goal is to achieve a general agreement on certain issues, that they do not have the power to force any country to accept any of their resolutions because the decisions they make do not have the right to be obliged. So we can only talk about the goodwill and desire of a country to respond to the obstacles given in the resolution itself. Serbia also showed good will and desire and understood the UN message when it adopted Resolution 1325 and developed the National Action Plan and set out in its application. We've done this before many countries, and that's what we should be proud of, but we don't seem to have the habit of putting something in the first place that's good. I can't help but point out on this occasion that we were in the first 17 countries in the world to pass an implementing act. Thanks to the NAP and before that to accept this Resolution, today we have a completely different picture in Serbia, we have the first women officers in the military and the police who represent us in peace missions. In particular, it should be pointed out that Resolution 1325 highlighted a new role of a woman in the security system and allowed her to be an active factor in establishing the stability and security of a country. Without security, no human being can be free. On the other hand, she encouraged many men and women to speak courageously about violence, human trafficking, discrimination in general and in some way forced and made many important state officials in the world to speak on the subject. I would especially point out the importance of former Canadian Prime Minister Kim Campbell, who among the first to point out that women and children make up most of those affected by armed conflicts. I think it is very important to accept the fact that, in post-conflict periods, women are very supportive in stifling and reducing tensions and that equal participation of men and women is an important way of preventing and resolving conflict and promoting an inclusive and sustainable peace culture. But from 1992 to today, only 14% of women participated in world peace processes, although 52% of women make up the world population. The implementation of the National Action Plan increases the visibility of women in the security sector, strengthens their role in reform processes and supports women's engagement in security structures at local, national and regional level. In my opinion, one of the greatest successes in the implementation of the NAP is that inter-minor co-operation and communication between different institutions, as well as the formation of most bodies and mechanisms for implementation of the NAP. I will conclude with the conclusion that the role of women civil society organisations and independent institutions in the NAP 1325 implementation process is very important and that I expect the Commission, within its supervisory role, to work on further application of this resolution, to make a significant contribution to security sector reform within its competence, but also to continue to involve as many women as possible in important security issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12337	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12338	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sure that this day will be recorded in our history as a day when a democratic state, a democratic state based on the division of power, is torn down in Serbia. You have the opportunity to prevent this, so that today's discussions can help the ruling majority not to vote a little is to say a scandalous decision, or one scandalous proposal and an illegal proposal that we received from the High Council of Justice. Proston can believe that the ruling majority has allowed and that all of us here are allowing the Serbian Parliament to discuss a proposal coming from an unauthorized promoter. That could never have happened in the Serbian Parliament. It can't be done by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the High Council of the judiciary does not have the legal authority to propose the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court and such a single proposal had to be rejected and could not be discussed in the Serbian Parliament. Obviously, the ruling majority believes that the Supreme Court's president can be replaced at the Justice Minister's initiative, so on the executive's initiative and you obviously think it's normal. For the sake of the citizens, I'll explain why it can't be done by law, why it can't be done under the Constitution, and why a proposal like this we're discussing is illegal. Therefore, the High Council of the Judiciary has no right under the law on the High Council of the judiciary to propose the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The function of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court may cease at his personal request and then the Assembly shall decide on that termination, may cease if its judicial office ceases, and then the Assembly shall determine the termination of its functions, may, unless God gives, die or loses his or her business capacity and the discharge procedure can be conducted. The High Council of the Judiciary has pointed out here that this is not about the discharge procedure, that we are not deciding on a resolution here. So it's impossible to get into this situation that we're in today without being run over by both the Constitution and the law. Why was this obviously necessary? This was necessary to bring into practice in this country, that when the power is changed and the minister of justice is changed, he may, through the High Council of the judiciary, seek the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because he does not like it and that some other reasons are allegedly cited. We all have enough imaginations to imagine how this could happen and who to blame and who to change here as a legislative authority, someone who's head of the judiciary. If we make one such decision, we can freely say that it is over with the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary in this country. You tried to hide behind the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Serbia, only the public works, the citizens do. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia concerns Article 102, paragraph 5, as Veroljub Arsic said, the president elected on the basis of Article 144. Whether or not you notice the difference in numbers. Paragraph 102, paragraph 5, and it was selected on the basis of Article 144, paragraph 1, reads in "The Official Messenger", published in "The Official Messenger", and is now invented as being a falsified "The Official Messenger". Veroljub Arsic also told us that she could not, based on the 102nd position of 5, what was advertised unconstitutional because he was not then in force. So they offered us a reason because it was declared an unconstitutional member of the law that was not at all in force at the time of the election, was not in place. So, I think it's clear to all of us that the reasons are false, and that in fact the real reasons are political motives, which we had the opportunity to listen to from the high-ranking officials of a political party, has even publicly stated that the political decision was made to replace the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. This is just a technique now, and that technique is against the law. That's what we were talking about in the Justice Committee, so it's not that you didn't know. We talked about it two days ago. The decision of the Constitutional Court, in the material that has arrived, was hidden from the members of the Justice Committee, in the proposal called for by the Constitutional Court decision, never delivered by the Constitutional Court, none of the members of the Committee had the opportunity to see that decision. We found it and in that decision there is no mention of a single word nor of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, neither Nata Mesarevic, nor of the decision to stop her function. Did the Constitutional Court want to give such an instruction? He could have written it, but he didn't write it like that. So don't hide behind the Constitutional Court, don't hide behind the High Court Council. This decision was initiated by the minister of justice and he came today to explain it because he was behind it. I believe this decision represents a collapse of the democratic order in Serbia. I think the debate on this issue will not end today in the Serbian Parliament. I think this decision will distance us from European integration, that it is possible to compromise the date of the EU accession negotiations, and I am sure that it will be the subject of a debate before the Council of Europe that is otherwise working to monitor the rule of law, democracy and human rights in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12339	Thank you. Mr. Djuric according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12340	Members of Article 106(3) and Article 107(2) have been injured by the Vice-Presidents. During the presentation of Mr Konstantinovic, I think SNS MPs, and I think Mr Arsic, have again thrown that it is a falsification. That happened several times during today’s debate. That's offensive to this National Assembly. The MPs of this National Assembly, though in the last session, have made a decision, and today someone insists that what they adopted is a fake or that the forgery was created after the adoption of that decision in the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". A fake, especially one of these things is a serious crime. No one can accuse nor the MPs, nor those who participated in the procedure of doing so without serious evidence. I believe Mr. Arsic doesn't really know what a fake is. For example, if someone gets a degree in a strange way without serious work, learning, accessing exams, for example. Master of Management, that still doesn't mean his diploma is a fake. She's not a forger, only she doesn't match the real state, but no one could say today that someone who owns such a diploma, that he's actually a falsified master management. The same goes for this case. I ask you, to ensure that, in the follow-up debate or not, this House and the MPs are offended by charges that they have committed a counterfeit or that the person who does so is in accordance with the law. The procedure is clear, written and filed criminal charges.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12341	I have to admit, I listened very carefully to the previous speaker and I didn't hear Mr. Arsic throw it away. Mr. Arsic, you want a replica? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12342	Of course, I'm entitled to even two replicas. Seeing as how someone keeps trying to bring things down to a political story. Let's get that part straight. Is the High Council in charge of the judiciary or not? It is said in Article 162 of the Constitution – the decisions of the Constitutional Court have been established and the final report binding. Article 171 states that everyone is obliged to respect and enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court. Article 104. The Constitutional Court Act is ridiculous for you, and you have made this papazijan - it is normised that state and other bodies, organisations entrusted with public authority, and the High Council of the judiciary is, are obliged to respect and enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the powers. The minister who runs one ministry has public authority. The Ministry has public authority. But when you ask a question about what the Constitution is, who suggested, on the basis of Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia President of the Supreme Cassation Court? Well, the High Council. What did he call himself? On Article 102, Article 5. The law on judges. Then suddenly he's at a board meeting who can't do it, he can't change the proposal. He could say that you delivered us a bill that doesn't apply and we're returning it to you. Get him in line with the Constitution and the law of its application. No, our board or someone is changing the preamble, so here's what the motion for a decision looks like, to read the number under which it was seduced and received. But now that that decision suddenly changes in the official messenger, it's not that decision anymore. We can accept the decision or refuse to change it can't, it comes from the High Council, we can't appeal to the Constitution, because we don't implement the Constitution directly, but in accordance with the law that needs to be in accordance with the Constitution. It's got to be, why write the law, then we'll just spin the Constitution. (Chairman: Time, sir.) ) Whatever, look carefully at the Constitution, means honestly, here is the MP – Constitutional category, because it is chosen by the Constitution or the Law on the Selection of People's MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12343	Time. Thank you. The word is Nenad Konstantinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12344	Apparently, my colleague Arsic did not understand me, and the Constitutional Court's decision does not mention even the president of the VKS, nor that it should stop his function, nor does he write in any way what should happen after their decision, which was announced by an unconstitutional member of the law, which was not then in place. Second of all, you asked the question where was the rush, when was the election? Take the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution and you will see that it has been 90 days since the constitution of the VSS, to elect the president of the VCC. That's the answer to the question you asked yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12345	Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12346	Mr. Arsic, frankly, is getting worse, that your interpretation that since he says the Constitution and the Constitutional Court law, that everyone is obliged to respect his decisions, so in that sense the VSS is authorized to submit such proposals, is absolute nonsense, because then he could submit a proposal to, say, the Ministry of Mining, by the same logic as you. Do you understand the extent of what you're saying, can't have jurisdiction in this case based on it. This other part isn't true either. In the process that you dispute, there is a proposal for an act and there is a National Assembly that adopts it, as well as in any other procedure that is conducted in front of this congregation. Your logic that the People's Assembly can't do that part about citing members of the law in the VSS proposal to change is also incorrect. Don't call on that argument, it's at least weak, thin, legally unsupported, and that's why we've been telling you all day, if you have a political ambition to deal with judicial reform, we'd understand that, open up a debate in parliament and then do it. Don't do it like this, because it further pushes everyone involved in this process, especially the Serbian Constitutional Court. So, you got the Constitutional Court involved in a political procedure with which he had nothing to do with it, your colleague Konstantinovic told you all about it a few minutes ago. You're mixing things up. The Constitutional Court declares some provision of the law unconstitutional, and then you come to parliament, you organise it politically, that's what Minister Selakovic does, and then you start as a sort of procedural law to apply Article 202. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that speaks of the termination of office, or function. What did you put together in a few weeks? In the end, it would have been fairer if Mr. Cvian had come out here and had the public execution carried out over everyone involved in judicial reform, and that would have been more in accordance with the law than you're trying to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12347	The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like, when a colleague criticises me, to write one law at least once, so as he writes the law first, he will have to call on the constitutional basis as a MP to write a law, and then he will have to call on the Law on the National Assembly, and then to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So in order for one law to enter the procedure, you have to meet three conditions. The National Assembly will never, unless you meet those three conditions to correct you, but it will repay you that it is not in accordance with the way the law is passed. It's the same for this decision. So if the VSS calls for Article 102 paragraph 5, we can't change that. We can return and tell them, it's not in accordance with Article 104. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the Law on Judges, harmonize your proposal and return to the procedure. That's how you do it. It is quite different for us, that the committee is discussing that the Assembly will, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and its internal acts, change the initial act of the moment you changed it, you have lost the motion for a decision to elect the president of the VCC. The moment you change the preamble, it no longer exists and don't discuss it. It was a rush, and now that someone's mentioned a 90-day deadline, the laws you've passed back then as the ruling majority, you should have taken care of it, but there's nothing we can do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12349	Mr. Mikovic, on what grounds are you answering? Just tell me, I know if you're right. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12350	In accordance with Article 104. What's this about? Mr. Arsic says they have the right to criticise him by those who have passed the laws, and I have passed the laws here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12351	Mr. Mikovic, you've been given the word of injury to the Rules of Procedure, not to replicate. You have no right to a replica. You start replicating Mr. Arsic, you have to explain to me... Here you go, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12352	I asked for a word by article 104, and that's precisely because it was about the bill being proposed. I'm from the MP who proposed the laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12353	Mr. Mikovic, you and I obviously don't understand each other. So, you have no right to a replica, I've made myself clear. Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12354	I have, I suppose, as that remark applied to me. So, Mr. Arsic makes one mistake that is not rare with the layman's lawyer. It attaches too much importance to this concept of education through practice and work, so it believes, although it has not passed studies at the Faculty of Law, some subsequent, accelerated work, hyperproduction of legal proposals and amendments can compensate for this lack. I do not dispute that he has the right to do so as a People's MP, but I warn him to check first, when he objectes to someone else that he has no empirical experience, of course, that I was making bill proposals, but that's not the subject of this debate, there's no reason to discuss it, Mr. Arsic. Secondly, so many times you mention the Constitution and the legal perfection and preambles, and I, in your place, would be ashamed to mention it, since you are calling for the Constitution, which you have adopted for two days, which was in such a disastrous – legal – technical form, that you later had the ambition to enter into parliament here in the Constitutional Law a scandalous provision that reads – professional services of the National Assembly are authorized to carry out the legal – technical order of text. The constitution you gave the citizens to adopt for two days had 50 spelling, spelling, and all other mistakes, and don't lecture others on the subject. Once again, I warn you, man doesn't have to have a direct empirical experience in order to know something or to talk about something or to politically support it. As you know, today is one of the points of the agenda and the issue of international instruments concerning the position of women and I assume that you will vote for this proposal, to understand it, regardless of what I'm sure you have no wife experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12355	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution may be the highest law to regulate the next legal regulation of a serious state, but it is only the law. Every law passed here is a legal-technical order of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so don't be surprised. It doesn't matter, I don't take for granted what you may not have known by now, but whatever I say, even when I read the Constitution, even when I read the law, the provisions of the law, once a former MP told you – what bothers you more about me, does the color of your eyes? Now I ask you, do you mind wearing glasses too?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12357	Thank you. Mr. Djuric has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12358	Of course, Mr. Arsic, I don't mind. It seems to me that you have a problem with people who are weaker or weaker in hearing. Twenty minutes ago, you were talking here about deaf and blind. I felt that remark beneath every level. Don't use the invitation to Mrs Tabakovic, I think I made it very clear to her what the problem with the policy she is leading as governor of the National Bank is and that all citizens of Serbia see it these days. You have made another terrible mistake, you do not understand the legislative process and the process of adopting the Constitution. So you put the text of the Constitution in front of the citizens. They, you say, adopted the text most of the time. After that, the text of the Constitution can no longer be changed by any legal or technical regulation. The procedure for the adoption of the Constitution is different from the procedure for the adoption of the law. You have two factors in this process, that is the people, that is, the citizens of Serbia. Parliament, between those two parts of the procedure, is not allowed to amend the text to be considered. Take care when you make such remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12359	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12360	I take care as much of that as I do of the next thing I'm going to say, that as a MP, I am the bearer of the sovereignty of the citizens. The legal-technical editorial is something completely different from changing the law, but you should know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12361	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12362	I will give myself the right today to speak from the decision to determine the composition of the monitoring committee and the implementation of the UN Security Council's National Action Plan 1325. This is one of the points, too, that is being discussed today. I would remind you that this resolution in the Security Council was adopted in 2000, that the Security Council in 2002 encouraged the member states of the Civil Society Organisation and other relevant actors to develop strategies and action plans. Serbia adopted this action plan practically 10 years after the adoption of the resolution itself. What I think is important to emphasise is that the initiator himself for adopting such a resolution was the Organisation of Civil Society. The National Action Plan consists of seven thematic areas, in the form of institutional mechanisms for the implementation of the National Action Plan. Just one of these institutional mechanisms we are talking about today, so two years and three months after the adoption of the resolution itself. The second thematic area is to increase women's representation in the security sector, increase their impact on issues related to peace and security. Then, increasing and participating women's influence on defence and security decision-making. I must stress here what was said two to three days ago in parliament and the announcement of the minister himself, that in the next year we will have one woman with the highest rank in the army, i.e. the wife of the general. Then, increasing women's participation in conflict resolution and post-conflict situations, as well as increasing women's participation in multinational operations. Just because we discussed multinational operations within this session a few days ago, I will remind myself of what I pointed out that day, which is that the UN and how they apply this resolution, that in 2004, they first set up a safety adviser, i.e. a gender equality adviser within the framework of peacekeeping missions, that Serbia is implementing a UN programme within its centre of peace operations, which refers to women's participation in peacekeeping missions. I think it's something that's very positive for Serbia. Under the five-use instruments of legal protection for women, as the sixth area – education and training of members of the security sector and the seventh area – providing media support for the objectives of the National Action Plan. I must point out that the National Action Plan has a complex structure and complex implementation mechanisms. What is good in this plan is that he has defined from the beginning what are the mechanisms that should lead to the best implementation of this document. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Centre for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, participated in the development and development of guidelines, in addition to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. In that sense, I am pleased that today's resolution minister is present, because I would like to appeal, in this way, that unless a person is already appointed, or a counselor for gender equality or counselors, to do so. I believe this body will follow the very implementation of the NAP. Of course, I would also like to thank this ministry that participated, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, which took part in the creation of the National Action Plan for Implementation 1325. What I would also like to point out is that maybe all of this could have happened before, but that it was also only 10 months after the adoption of the NAP itself, that a multi-sectoral coordination body was installed. It is an operational body of representatives from several ministries and political councils. What is good is that in the day of the vote, this parliament will be declared to form a body to monitor the implementation itself, where the National Action Plan itself is defined – the representatives of which the committees participate in this body. In addition, it is good that the political council is intertwined with legislative and executive authority, so that the implementation of 1325 itself can be better monitored. I really believe that we are one society and a state that should pay special attention to this, that we are the country that has adopted the National Action Plan in the region, but I also think that without false modesty Serbia should take over the role, I would say, of leading countries when it comes to creating a security situation. I said that two days ago, by participating in peacekeeping missions, Serbia is giving a clear signal that it has become an exporter of security from the position of the security importer. I truly believe that this body that needs to do what is the fundamental role of Parliament, which is the control function, will do its job well. Thank you. President (Nobojsa Stefanovic): Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12363	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Your Honors, members of the High Council of the Judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard a lot about the legal argument on why this proposal is problematic and why there is actually a legal problem in changing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the High Council of the judiciary. Mr. Minister, it's really clear to me that you were in a big problem when you were actually supposed to create a modulus to change the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I really want to believe that you were only carrying out a political order, and that there was no problem with the profession when you imported the Constitutional Court, the Ministry of Justice, the High Council of the Judiciary and this Parliament, and all in order and in the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So let's start from the beginning. What does that mean when you, as a representative of the executive authority, acting as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, represent this unfavorable proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary? You, as executive authority, are effectively proposing, defending this proposal and in fact calling for something to be done which is a legal nonsensual and which represents a very large and serious consequence of the legal order of this state, because the removal of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the High Council of the judiciary is exactly what it is. It's a blow to this country's legal order. When we start from having all these factors participate in this process, we must not lose sight that both the Constitutional Court and the High Council of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice and Parliament represent the accomplices in this process and tomorrow no one can call on him not to know that he simply had to take that responsibility off himself. I am aware that this parliamentary majority will most likely do what is political will for the judiciary in Serbia to return to its previous situation, that the Serbian judiciary will again be Milosevic's judiciary, that the courts and prosecutors in Serbia are Milosevic's courts and Milosevic's prosecutors, and we know very well what these courts looked like, as it seemed, there is no dilemma in it. So when you, as minister of justice, propose and defend and advocate this kind of shift, why don't you ask yourself how it's possible for you to have members of the High Council of the judiciary sitting next to you without anyone saying a word about why and how this proposal has been submitted? So it is very important that when a member of the Supreme Council is discussed, everyone is aware of the consequences of the president's shift and that everyone should be aware of the consequences when the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is replaced. You're introducing a breach of the principle of ban on retroactiveness on a small door. You are introducing to a small door the possibility of jeopardizing the continuity of the judicial function, because in this case, when you put the situation in that position to end the position of the president of the highest judicial authority, you question all decisions that have actually arisen from the existence of that function, specifically the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, or the High Court of Justice Council. So we have no dilemma about what the congregation majority will do. He'll probably just follow up on everything he said and the former radical president when he mentioned Politika's Funnier, that the assembly's majority can make a law out of Politika's Fungi. Unfortunately, this Serbia will have to suffer this kind of power, this kind of thinking and actually this kind of legal violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12364	The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12365	Dear President, Ministers, fellow MPs, today we are on the agenda of a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary to make a decision on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Someone said today they're going to defend the legal system here, because it's a political decision to replace the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. First, I don't understand why they didn't defend the legal system on 30 November 2009, when, on the basis of an unconstitutional provision, the President of the Court was elected? Secondly, today's agenda is no shift, no resolution, but the end of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. We, as MPs, should implement the Constitutional Court Decision, which found that the provision of Article 102(5) is a provision. The law on judges contrary to the Constitution as the highest legal act. Namely, Article 7. The Constitutional Court Act stipulates that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and binding, while Article 171(1) provides for a provision. The constitution stipulates that everyone is obliged to respect and execute them. We should act unanimously with those acts and respect the Constitutional Court's decision. On the basis of Article 102, Article 5(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Law on Judges has been elected today by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It is clear that the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court does not respect the election procedure, because the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court has not been delivered, and today we are obliged to correct the mistakes made and to make a decision on the termination of the position of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The member of the law on the basis of which the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected is contrary to Article 144(1). The constitution, which clearly provides for a procedure for selecting the president of Serbia's highest court. On 18 November 2009, the High Judicial Council submitted a motion for a decision to elect the president of the court, calling for a provision of legislation declared unconstitutional. Later, in the assembly procedure, there was a magical change in the proposal's decision and overstepped powers at the session of the Justice Committee and a motion for a decision such as did not go in and out of the Assembly, but in another way. It is clear that the election process of the President of the Court has not respected the country's positive legal rules and today we have a situation that the president of Serbia's highest court has been elected in a manner contrary to the Constitution and the law. Article 79. The law on judges is prescribed that the president of the court is elected among the judges in his opinion. Article 144(1) The constitution is clearly prescribed how the President of the Court is elected, so the provision of Article 102 paragraph 5 is in collegiate with the same, under which the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected. It is clear that, in a specific case, the obtaining of the General Session of Judges of the Supreme Cassation Court has been omitted. Such a choice by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has violated the unity of our country's legal order, as it is possible to elect the president of a court before the court exists and independent of the choice of judges. First they had to be elected judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, who would give their opinion on the presidential candidate out of their turn at the general session. In a specific case, the president of the Supreme Court was elected who did not even exist. The court was not formed, no judges were elected. First, the judges of the court had to be elected in order to give their opinion on the future President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Article 31 The court-ordered law has also defined what the Supreme Cassation Court is doing, and one of its powers is to give an opinion on a candidate for the Supreme Cassation Court president. Such an opinion has never been given. We have received from the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, against all provisions of the Constitution and the laws governing the choice of the same. Now is the time to correct the mistakes made, to show that Serbia is still a rule of law and that it respects the Constitution. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court's election played the Constitution. And then, as it is now, it was known that the election of the president of the highest court in the country had no foothold. It is clear that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court had no legitimacy when he was elected under the provisions of the law, which was declared unconstitutional. Now there's no more legality. Given that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and binding, I urge you to make a decision on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court and to show that Serbia is a legal state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12366	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12367	It's about article 107 because I think it's very necessary to tell the truth. A little while ago, an incorrect piece of information appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12368	I can't let you go on. Why? Mr. Mikovic, you have been misusing the Rules of Procedure all day and interpreting that you have the right to comment on the presentation of other MPs and that what they bring out you are invited to say whether it is true or not. You're not really invited to do that. Please. You've been here all day after every MP with a violation of the Rules of Procedure, interpreting what the MPs have said to you. That really doesn't make sense. If the Rules of Procedure were to do so, then we would never finish the session of the National Assembly. So I can't give you my word. Next reported is MP Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12369	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues from the DS parliamentary group have already made our argument as to why the decision to terminate the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court would be against the law and against the law. They repeat only because of the public that the Serbian Parliament did not receive a request for the resolution of the Supreme Cassation Court president because they would then have to be taxed as the law requires, the reasons for the resolution. Since these reasons are in fact absent, or the ruling majority is reluctant to open such a serious debate, it has resorted to the trick of using the Constitutional Court's decision of 20 December 2012, which found that Article 102(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been adopted. The law on judges is not in accordance with the Constitution. It should also be repeated for the public that the National Assembly has elected the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on the basis of Article 144(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To point out once again, the Constitutional Court did not discuss the RS assembly's decision. She wasn't questioned. It wasn't the subject of a constitutional court hearing. It's just that there's still an unconstitutional member of the Justice Act. It is important to say that today when the judicial system of the authorities is fully in place in the process of reforming the judicial system, it is surprising that the VSS appears here in parliament today as a proposing for the termination of office, as the law does not so foresee. What we say here today, if the Constitutional Court is not under heavy political pressure, must be rejected as an unconstitutional decision, this time because in the process as a proposing, a completely unauthorized institution appears. This is about the harshest political rematch because if we see that there is no legal basis for this initiative, the remaining political reasons. I'd say rematchism and it manifests in at least two ways. In fact, on one symbolic plan, and it seems to me to be the most dangerous, she wants to send a strong message that she is being replaced from the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, resolved, her function has ceased. The judge, who had professional knowledge and personal couries to lead the process of killing Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, issued a judicial verdict, but raises the issue of the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic in the light of the verdict. If we know that the then president of the SRS, until recently the president of the SNS, and today the president of Serbia, at the time of the verdict, has said that as soon as he comes to power, he will review this trial because he personally wants to see the guilty of the convicted murderer Zoran Djindjic, then there is no dispute that we have a political initiative here and that it is political rematch. Should we view Ms Nate Mesarovic as the start of a review of the trial of convicted murderers of Prime Minister Djindjic? If we look at what's been going on lately in the judiciary, especially with the massive upheaval of the most radical criminals, there's a real danger of that happening. I would like to remind you that President Nikolic's party launched an initiative two and a half years ago on the non-constitutional nature of this member of the Justice Act and it sounds simply incredible that the Constitutional Court decided only on 20 December 2012 and published its decision last December in the Official Messenger, i.e. only after the arrival of the SNS to power and a media campaign that was in preparation for such a decision against the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. A senior SNS official and chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives vandalised the campaign. There is no better example of vulgar politics and political pressure on judicial independence from the campaign and the facts it led. These are the statements made by Vladimir Cvian to the TANJUG news agency that the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, Nata Mesarovic, is the chief holder of corruption in the judiciary and what is very important is that they will raise the issue of some judicial decisions she has made, etc. The question arises which court decisions? In addition to an ugly and socially dangerous insinuation that the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation is the chief holder of corruption in the judiciary, it is amazing to announce the anti-constitutional interference of the executive and legislative authority in the judiciary, and we have it today at this point in the agenda. If this were not an uncontrollable outburst of Mr Cvian, but apparently SNS policy, Minister Selakovic confirmed today when he openly said he saw nothing controversial in that he intervened from time to time to the Constitutional Court to stop with some discussions or initiatives, and to speed up some. If parliament makes a decision operating here, Mr Cvian, MPs of the ruling party, Minister Selakovic, it will be an unprecedented scandal. We must ask whether this ends, because the respected president of the Serbian Judges' Association Dragana Boljevic in a letter to the current Working Group for the development of a national judicial reform strategy, says he will not work in the group while members of the VSS and the State's chief prosecutors are present. Similarly today, she asked for a letter in the debate. Gentlemen, this is just the beginning and instead of before us laws that possibly eliminate the lack of judicial reform, the ruling party is brutally overrun by the fundamental goal of reforming, independence of the judiciary. With illegal and unconstitutional judicial shifts, it is apparently just beginning and unfortunately the members of the VSS are involved, not understanding that once they enter into a compromise with the return policy, there is no more. We DS MPs will defend you too when you are the victim of harsh politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12370	The People's Messenger Paul Markov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12371	Dear President, Ministers, representatives of the High Council of Justice, dear colleagues, on today's agenda we have one very important, and how time moves away a very interesting topic. On the occasion of this case, many hidden facts that best depict the notion and respect of the rule of law, bearers of the parliamentary majority in the previous government, surfaced. It is a proposal for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. When we received a proposal from the Justice Committee for this decision and we scratched a little below the surface, not by entering excessive political evaluations, we unequivocally came to the conclusion that those in charge of respect and implementation of the highest legal acts of this country were acting irresponsiblely, legally unsustainable and somewhat arrogantly. Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the VSS, is elected by the National Assembly by the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the Competent Committee of the National Assembly. So here we have very clear conditions and therefore the procedure for selecting the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is the decision on the choice made by the National Assembly with three necessary previous conditions, which are the proposal, and the opinion of the session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly. In order for the National Assembly to implement this member of the Constitution, it was necessary to pass the law and, on the basis of it, to reach the goal of electing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Now, the parliamentary headquarters of the majority from 30 December 2008 and the well-known reformers of the judiciary are performing and they are passing the Law on Judges to apply from 1 January 2010, and in principle - let's cloud clear water. Since they obviously do not intend to obey the Constitution, they have come to realize that they have little respect for it, i.e. changes. Instead of implementing that Article 144. The Constitution, as an identical Article 79. The Law on Judges, legislators, introduces a transitional provision and Article 102, to which the election of the President of the Court of Justice, including the Supreme Cassation Court, accepts a somewhat different condition, from the Constitution and the Article 79 of the same Law on Judges, in a specific case by introducing the institution of the acting president of the Court of Justice to the legal election and introducing the exception of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in terms of the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court without the appropriate conditions and without the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. Why this breach was committed is not part of today's topic, but the consequences will only come. At this moment, we are coming to the galathias of the problem, another in a series of violations of the highest legal act of one state, which is the Constitution, the collapse of one of the most important institutions of each, including this state, and that is the Supreme Court of Cassation and its President and ultimately, the political attack on the right. Such an unconstitutional member of the law was given the green light to the other authorities in a procedure to bypass the Constitution, so the chairman of the High Council of Justice, about a year after the adoption of the mentioned law on judges, or more precisely on 18 November 2009 under the number 060023/2009-01, reports to the National Assembly that the High Council of the Judiciary is on 11. 11. In 2009, he set out a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and proposed Nata Mesarevic, then v.d. President, interestingly, based on Article 102 of Item 5. Law on judges, or an unconstitutional member of the Law. This decision of the High Council of the judiciary meets one of the conditions laid down in the Constitution and in Article 79. The Law on Judges has been prescribed, and this is the proposal of the Supreme Cassation Court, but without that other condition, that is, the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. After this act, it shall continue to fulfil the last conditions, which shall be the opinion of the committee responsible and the decision of the National Assembly. However, here we also come to a new interesting legal gymnastics and the continuation of the collapse of the rule of law, in a way that, although the Supreme Council of Justice has adopted its proposal on the basis of Article 102 paragraph 5. The Law on Judges and which should be an integral part of the Decision of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall make its decision by referring to Article 144(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And that is not enough, but we are coming to know that the then motion for a decision to the National Assembly, which has adopted that decision, is different, or magically altered and as such published in the "Official Messenger" No. 98 since 30 November 2009. Which is a lot, it's a lot. Announcing the decision in "The Official Messenger" and referring to Article 144(1). The Constitution, the National Assembly, or headquarters of the ruling majority, has, instead of implementing the law, taken the right to exercise the Constitution directly, but it does so badly because Article 144(1) is prescribed, except for the other conditions, and the condition of obtaining the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, which they did not have. In this way, the Parliament's decision becomes the least said right dimming as well as the elected President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The Constitutional Court of 20 December 2012 makes a clear decision that Article 102 paragraph 5. The Law on Judges is unconstitutional, with the assessment that the legislator has exceeded his powers by adopting the contested Article 102 paragraph 5 and that the same law has violated the unity of the legal order laid down in Article 4(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I quote. After this decision of the Constitutional Court, the question arises as to what is the consequence of such a decision. For some of these consequences there is no practice, as they have introduced that decisions of the Constitutional Court are not so important, that the Constitution should be applied occasionally, occasionally not and that we can interpret it as appropriate. However, the High Council of Justice is not such an opinion, but on 23 January 2013, it expressed its position, as well as the proposal that the non-compliance with the Constitution and the law brought serious violations of the legal norms, and sent a proposal to the National Assembly to decide on the termination of the office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, believing that the National Assembly had violated the Constitution and the law on 30 November 2009 by making an unconstitutional and illegal decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. They also consider that the National Assembly is obliged to correct its error by respecting the Constitution, in particular Article 166(2), which found that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and general binding, as well as Article 171(1) that everyone is obliged to respect and enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. Also, and Article 104. The Constitutional Court Act, which norms that state and other bodies, organisations entrusted with public authority, political parties, trade union organisations, associations of citizens or religious communities, are obliged to exercise decisions and decisions of the Constitutional Court under their rights and duties. Also, Article 7. The Constitutional Court Act stipulates that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and general binding and that everyone to whom the law has been violated, in this case the High Court of Justice, has the right to request an amendment to that individual act, in this case a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The Committee on Justice assessed that the proposal for a decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation was justified, and the same proposal was forwarded by the Assembly for discussion and decision. We believe that the Constitution is flagrant and broken and it is necessary to return to the frameworks of the Constitution and the law. What costs us little is the politicisation and return of the entire case to out-of-law water, and the attempt to turn the topic into a discussion of the work of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is neither the subject nor any act by the High Council of Justice, the board of directors, nor by this Assembly. I'll just stop here a little bit and remind us all of a recent similar violation of the Constitutional Court's decisions, in the event that the committee mandates belong to the committees, not to the parties. It is, remember, the rest in most cases a dead letter on paper, because the political parties refused to implement such a decision for personal, political reasons only in order to preserve illegal authorities. This led to the collapse of cities, municipalities, and the creation of enormous material damage. This is just one example of how the political elite in the past understood and applied the Constitution. After this, our citizens should not at all be surprised by the degree of order of Serbia and respect, that is, disrespect for the Constitution, the law and the general crisis of the rule of law, and we will not stress the international consequences. They also today feel that the consequence of such a decision by the Constitutional Court is irrelevant, that there is no need to pay too much attention, and even in the assessment so far that today's National Assembly violates the norm by wanting to make a statement in that proposal, implements the Constitutional Court's decision and observes the Constitution. Even if our decision is not legally perfect, it certainly cannot be asked by those who have led to this humiliation of state institutions and harsh violation of legal norms and those who have brought us into such a situation. It tries to manipulate the public, impose a personal topic on the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is not mentioned in any word by the council and committee. With this debate, we must answer the question of the Constitutional Court and whether the Constitution is important for this home and this country and whether we are obliged to protect the mentioned legal values. When we answer that, we will easily come up with an answer whether the 2009 National Assembly decision was in accordance with the Constitution or not and whether we will sit down and wait for someone to virtually correct the error of the largest representative home and bring us the right. All of this we are obliged to do in the interest of the rule of law, to restore citizens' confidence in the institutions of the system and to place Serbia in a legally secure country, and to conclude that the decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is unconstitutional and I am also calling on the National Assembly to unequivocally implement the Constitutional Court's decision by establishing the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, based on Article 79(7). The law on judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12372	National MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12373	Thank you. The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is an incredible ease that the ruling coalition today, and all under the guise of the alleged implementation of the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, is carrying out an obvious and inadmissible attack on the independence of the judiciary. Today is not a topic of respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, as it is not knowingly and in this harshest violation of the independence of the judiciary, the ruling coalition is trying to present the political shift of Serbia's top judicial office representatives. The Democratic Party respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court and they are in no way questioned. Today is the agenda for the political shift of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which represents an unremembered blow by both executive and legislative authorities. For the first time in history, we have a Justice Minister's initiative on the agenda that actually replaces the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. This is really a scandalous act. It violates not only the Constitution, but also the laws and elemental democratic principles on the division of power. The facts, ladies and gentlemen, are the only arguments. And the facts, as my colleagues used to say in a recent discussion, speak only the following. The Supreme Council of the judiciary, as the formal motion for a decision we are discussing today, cannot even discuss the decision. According to Article 13. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, which prescribes that the body submits a proposal for elections and for the resolution of the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, therefore, not for the determination of termination. On the other hand, a member of the Law on Judges clearly lays down the reasons why one judge, or the President of the Court, may suspend the term of office, and we are all aware that none of these reasons has occurred in this case. The last fact is also that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has elected the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on the basis of Article 144. The Constitution of Serbia in 2009, not on the basis of Article 102. The law on judges declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. So, the Constitutional Court has declared this member unconstitutional, not a member of the law under which Mrs Mesarevic, President of the Supreme Cassation Court, was elected. Also, the Constitutional Court did not prescribe in its decision the need to suspend the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So the reason for the political shift is false and fictional. He's unfounded and right and unfounded in the truth. The proposal for termination of office is illegal. So, the only one and today the completely naked truth is the following -- the High Representative of the SNS and the Chairman of the Serbian Parliament's Legislative Committee accused the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mrs Mesarevic, of being the head of the judicial mafia and, on several occasions, announced her shift, and we see today that he is meeting his announcement today. The Serbian Progressive Party has applied for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on Judges. Two years later, the minister of justice and the party's representative, and the Constitutional Court, make decisions that the parties in power do not use as an alibi for political justice. It is hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen, and more important than that, that the parties to the political shift represent as the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. In its decision, the Constitutional Court merely found that one provision did not comply with the Constitution and ordered that the irregularity be corrected, not by any means mentioned, in any way, by any means, that there are conditions for the president to cease. We're aware of the facts of what kind of country we're living in right now. The collapse of independent institutions, the silence of media hacks, the creation of lists of non-governmental NGOs, cultural MPs, unspeakable treasonous media, prominent individuals, the atmosphere in which individual tabloids declare guilty without trial, draw conclusions without evidence, announce investigations and arrests in which criminals reduce prison sentences, the fear atmosphere, which hides behind oaths in an uncontinuous fight against corruption, is now ruling Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you that you have begun your mandate by amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and by setting up a party governor, mocking the public that this governor will freeze his political function, and we have witnessed that several months later, the governor has political assessments of the need to hold an early election, that the vice governor is talking about the economic implications of holding extraordinary parliamentary elections. Shut up about the media defamation of the Trustee for the protection of equality. I ask the question - what is being told to the representatives of independent bodies who speak freely and publicly when the state is silent about an attack against them? In the previous period, the Democratic Party has passed legal preconditions for the formation of independent regulatory bodies, for the formation of independent institutions. By our activity, we have strengthened their position through our legislative activity. We absolutely support them in their doing their work. On the other hand, the fact is that representatives of independent institutions with full rights have criticised many of the previous government's bad moves. On the other hand, the fact is that these criticisms are quiet today. When criticisms are quieted down, the question arises-- are the conditions better today, or today, perhaps, the fear is greater? Quietly, as representatives of the Supreme Cassation Court disputed credibility, making it much more dangerous to undermine the credibility of the function it performs, the credibility of the profession that it represents undermines the credibility of all the judgments it has made. The replacement of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is an act that is deeply dangerous for both safety and stability. What exactly does this act represent, or is it telling the judges? He tells judges that the executive power will always be able to find, quote, some reasons for stopping office and that it is politically replacing judges, that the minister of justice can initiate and implement the dismissal of every president of the court. In the end, and given everything said and what my colleagues pointed to throughout the day, I only have one question to ask - what does this government tell Serbian citizens? That behind the declarative oath and the uncompromising struggle for corruption, anything can go through. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12374	Replica, Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot help but wonder at the insolence that has been spent by members of the former regime for a long time, and here by the MPs. The National Assembly's decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, including the decision on my choice, is, by its legal nature, a legal-political act. Written and signed by Supreme Cassation Court President Nata Mesarevic. Also, why do gentlemen who speak of the constitutional and legal position of independent authorities not mention Article 144? Us tajava of the Republic of Serbia? Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the 1st position – the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly. Where is that general session of the Supreme Cassation Court? You skipped that. You forgot that. You changed the law to change judges, under the pretext that it was a reform. What Constitutional Court are you talking about? Who suggested the Constitutional Court judges? Is Tomislav Nikolic, or Alexander Vukic, or any of these MPs here? You proposed and chose them. They made this decision, it wasn't us. No Constitutional Court judge has been changed, nor will they, until the conditions laid down by the law on his election are met. What's the problem here? The fact that you were not able to carry out what you wrote, then you did not deserve to be in power. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12376	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from the place: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I didn't know you were answering the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is Mr. Konstantinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, i.e. President, you're in violation of article 107. It's simple, you have to warn when someone insults the MPs in this assembly... (President: I have not heard anyone insult the MPs. He said that the insolence of what the MPs of the former regime say... No, Mr. Arsic said -- he's been doing impudence all day for members of the former regime. So after that, he very racially defined exactly who he was referring to. You can interpret it differently, but he was very precise in what he was saying. He didn't mention any MPs, nor did he mention any MPs, or anyone who said anything in particular. So, Mr. Arsic didn't identify anyone in such a way that it could be offensive to some parliamentary group. If anyone recognizes it, I don't have a problem with it. It wasn't directly in this case, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12378	President, sit in the same session where we are all sitting and you know who spoke before colleagues Arsic and why and for what reason Arsic appeared. So he reported that he was replicating MPs who spoke before him, Maji Vidinovic, and said that what members of the former regime of impudence say. He insulted us. First of all, we don't say anything insolent or insolent. Secondly, we are not members of any former regime. Please warn your colleague Arsic not to insult the messengers in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12379	I take it you yourself said you don't consider yourself members of the former regime, so this can't apply to you. In that case, I don't think this remark applies to that and there's no basis for any insult. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12380	I'll get on it. So, I agree with the President of the Assembly, but then it's not our turn to act on behalf of the SPS, the URS and others who are members of the former regime. I don't know why they keep quiet. Secondly, Mr. Arsic spoke deeply in my direction, with all the fascination, Article 144. The Constitution. Each time by automation, Mr. Arsic mentions the term of the former regime when it gets very upset. So, first, he fascinates himself with Article 144, he read it to us several times. That's what we're commending. You read it well, you understood it well, we agree with the Constitution that we all brought together. I have nothing to add, but you didn't answer - why does an unauthorized state authority apply, not for resolution, but for termination of office? Why do you do it this way? What's the legal basis, if he has one? We know from the DS, we explained it. So, in addition to everything you read and fascinate and agree with your own Constitution, Mr. Arsic, let's step away from it, explain to us and give us the answers to these questions. That's all. Every time we piss you off, you say, former regime. Every time I'm surprised you're quiet about the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12381	I have to admit, you've brought in a newspaper. We'll have to work out a Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12382	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers, members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, dear citizens of Serbia, what is important to say, the SNS wants to address the citizens of Serbia to explain why we have been listening all day to these acts, why they have not explained what they are, but they have told us what they are not. Why did we come into a situation where whenever we delete and bury a little beneath the surface we see irregularities, we see violations of the Constitution, violations of all laws and regulations in the Republic of Serbia, which are responsible for representatives of the former regime, headed by the DS, which led the main word in that government and which led the Ministry of Justice, which is the most responsible for everything that has happened in this country. Every time a law is passed in this assembly or when a bill is made for a law, when we have abolished the immunity of Mr Oliver Dulic, then from the DS there has been one wheezing, all day long, how we deal with politics and how it is a political cleanup. No, she wasn't. We took the mandate because someone called for that mandate and because when they came for it, he said he was calling for a mandate, and then he said he was joking and he didn't mean it. You've all honored us here that there's nothing to discuss. When we passed the new NBS Act, when we chose the new governor of the NBS, you all said out loud that it would be a disaster, that it was very bad for Serbia, that there would be inflation of enormous measures. When you talked about it, the euro was 120 dinars, and today it's 110. I'm sorry, I'm making an introduction because we've listened to this several times and because these are known DS maneuvers in order to announce cataclysm, disaster, by announcing that there will be something called a tsunami, that we're only dealing with politics and that all the decisions we make are purely political, creating an agenda that protects themselves when they're caught in fraud, whenever they're caught in a lie, whenever they're caught breaking the Constitution and the law. Just for the sake of the public in the Republic of Serbia, I would like to remind myself of the fact that we in this Assembly are discussing something called the proposal to suspend the post of President or President of the Supreme Cassation Court. As the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. Valtazar Bogisic said this thought in the 19th century, which today surfaces and shows the essence of everything that has stood in a drawer for the last three years to come out today. What was then proposed, and this is the date of November 18, 2009, the High Council of the Judiciary teaches to the National Assembly, and on the basis of Article 13th indent 4. Law on the High Council of the judiciary and Article 102, paragraph 5. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Court held on 11 November 2009, established a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and proposed Nata Mesarevic, V.D. President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, signed by the chairman of the High Council of the judiciary, Djurdjin Bjelobab. It wakes up some association to some Gjurjin, who has not been allowed for three years, can Georgina and Gjurjina, give birth because someone banned it... (President: Please, Mr. Nikolic, come back to the topic. I'd like other MPs for a little patience and attention, too. This proposal has entered the congregation procedure. It had to be respected in this integral form. The decision had to be made as proposed and released in a procedure in the Serbian Parliament. Afterwards, he had to make a statement to the committee responsible, and he needed his opinion on giving the Cassation Court, or the General Department of the Cassation Court. However, since the department is not there, the department could not exist because it was not chosen. This Assembly has made a decision that is listed under number 3905 and pursuant to Article 144(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is elected President of the Supreme Cassation Court Nata Mesarevic, V.D. President of the Supreme Court. So, all of this has been brought to trial before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court had to make a decision by respecting its powers and obligations and made a decision that is binding, final and executive. That decision means that Article 102(5) is determined. The law on judges is not in agreement with the Constitution and that such a member could not be the basis for the election of Mrs Mesarovic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So, the president of a non-existent court was elected, a woman who had been elected to vote for the Supreme Court Judge, but she was not elected judge, she was elected directly to the President of the Court. You can't choose a president of the court without having a judge of that court at the same time. You can't choose as President of the Court someone for whom no general session of the Supreme Cassation Court has been given. There Mr. Minister was very well aware that it was the same as if we had come to this assembly on May 31st and that we had already elected President of the Assembly, based on some regulation, based on some law, and we would have to accept it the way someone liked it, because I think it's a violation of the law in the most flagrant way possible. After all, and based on this Constitutional Court decision, this is very important for the citizens of Serbia, simply to know what it is, Mr. Minister has launched the initiative, of course as a member of the Supreme Judiciary Council, given that he has the right to do so and that it is the only body that can implement this decision of the Constitutional Court. This decision of the Constitutional Court is binding, final and executive for all national authorities. We cannot turn our heads and say that the Constitutional Court is not valid, that the Constitutional Court has chosen others, and they were not ours, that there is someone in that Constitutional Court who is not a member of this party or that party, that we are here today to make a cleanup, even someone's execution. I really don't understand the expressions, nor did we press anyone in that Constitutional Court. I don't even know who the judges of that Constitutional Court are, and I believe the other colleagues don't know by name and last name. Then we pulled some names here to make it happen, and I'm thinking of a colleague named Vladimir Cvian, that he allegedly was putting pressure on someone, that he was announcing a political cleanup. No, it's not. You, of the DS, have handed over and filed criminal charges against him for violations of justice, a criminal act of obstruction of justice. Let the D.A. decide now. Let the court decide, so when we get a judicial verdict, where they will eventually, and I'm sure they won't, Vladimir Cvian, then you can fantasize about it. The criminal application, miraculously, on behalf of Mrs. Nate Mesarevic's son, Vladimir Mesarevic, who is otherwise a judge who adventured in the term of Ms. Nate Mesarevic, is submitted to the DS, or some legal team that protects your people from some kind of injustice, from some witch hunt that we do in Serbia. No, it's not true. The only authority responsible for launching this initiative in front of the Serbian Parliament of course is the High Council of the judiciary, because it is responsible for proposing someone this high house should choose. He is in charge of submitting a motion to resolve anyone, and when he can, it is automatically logical that he can also implement the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision and propose to this high-level home, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to establish, or decide on the termination of the president's office, in this case, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. All of this, and perhaps we should have done this before, so that we could choose the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and in accordance with Article 144 paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 79(1) The law on judges, which absolutely prescribes conditions, the way and procedure of electing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So it's not our fault that this happened, it's because of whoever did this in 2009, fasting and chasing, not knowing what he was doing and making mistakes. When we set out today to explain that there was a mistake on you, that you, so to speak, had drawn the current Supreme Court president on thin ice, by selecting the contrary to the Law on Judges, Article 102, paragraph 5, which is contrary to Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you are now honoring us to perform a political cleanup. Absolutely not. Most absurd in all this, the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and after this decision, remains the Supreme Court Judge and can run once more, although it is stated there in the Law on Judges, or in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court can only be elected once for a term of five years. Is this luck in an accident or an accident in luck for someone? She can run, we don't clean anyone, we don't put anyone away, each of them, including Mrs. Mesarevic, can continue to make the brave decisions she made in the previous period. When you mentioned that we were someone who was looking forward to killing the Prime Minister, I'm telling you that's not true. None of us were looking forward to it, none of us were being sedated, and none of us were pleased to see something like this happen. I pray to God that something like this will never happen again in Serbia. Those who are convicted of this act are rightfully where they should be. Of course, as a professional, I'm not going to comment on any court decision, or this one, but I can tell you that as a man and as a professional, I'm very glad that the judiciary had the courage to make such a decision at the time. In the end, the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will vote with two hands for such a decision. We will bring it safely, unfortunately for you, and for the joy of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12383	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12384	Vice President, members 106 and 107 have been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On several occasions, the previous speaker did these injuries. He talked about cases and cases that had absolutely nothing to do with the agenda. He mentioned Mr. Dulic's case. He said this parliament took the term of office of Mr Dulic. That's not true. This parliament does not take away the mandates of anyone, but rather decided on the immunity of Mr Dulic. When he opened it, he forgot to mention that some members of the congregation’s committee were not even invited in the process. Afterwards, the gentleman commented on the personal name of the person who was signed in the decisions of the state authorities, in a very primitive and vulgar manner. He continued to provide data from the private life of certain persons, e.g. Mr Vladimir Mesarovic. He has nothing to do with this agenda item today. When he's running some court case, as far as I understand it, I didn't even know he was running this trial, nor am I interested in who his agents were in the process and what it was about, it was absolutely the private life of that person. He's not being discussed here today as a judge. The gentleman who spoke mentions him and the data from his private life exclusively because of the fact that he is related to blood, i.e. that he is the son of Mrs. Nate Mesarovic. It actually confirms that during today's debate we were absolutely right that this was about anger directed against Mrs. Mesarovic. I agree in one piece with what the predecessor was saying. I also congratulate Nati Mesarovic, Judge Dragicevic Dicic, Judge Lukic, all members of the Council at different stages of the procedure, who, despite the pressures of the then government and the disputes, which came among other things and from Tomislav Nikolic, managed to reach a verdict and end the procedure in a brave manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12385	I have to admit, I wasn't there. If that's all true, I appeal to the MPs that they really don't come out and go into personal trouble. You may state whether in the voting day, the Assembly declares whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. (No) Mr. Nikolic, on what grounds? (Dragan Nikolic, from the post: Article 103, breach of the Rules of Procedure. You do not have the right to replicate or injure the Rules of Procedure. Đuric advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12386	The Democratic Party has been mentioned very directly several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12387	Please don't throw it away. I beg your messengers, don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12388	I know that this MP, eventually, will eventually return to civilization flows. What is essential is that it is not DS or led or conducted by a court trial in any name, especially not the gentleman mentioned. We filed a criminal report after, undermining, what all the competent authorities had already reported, therefore, informed of what had happened that day and the day later. So, through regular procedure, everyone has been informed of what your member, Mr. Cvian, has done in court. That's what this is about. We have filed a report and we stand behind that application and expect that the competent authorities, which everyone now mentions, the competent authorities, with the hope that they are not party authorities, will respond as quickly as possible and determine Mr Cvian's unquestionable responsibility. We may be wrong, but let's see it through. In the meantime, we don't think he's worthy of being head of the board. There are too many serious accusations and too many major conflicts of interest that he has shown. That's the first thing. The other thing is, Mr. Dulic retired himself. No one kicked him out. I retired. Is that what happened? Did you say here the same thing, some of your colleagues, how tight the prisons will be, I repeat, how many Democrats will end up inside? And now you're slowly explaining that to the citizens of Serbia that you've deceived. Because, as far as I know, Oliver Dulic is in Subotica. (President: Time, Mr. Stefanovic. ) Keep in mind when making threats. I know your president's gone too far now. Consider that there is a legal system in this country. (President: Please pay attention on time.) Replication time's up. ) Therefore, I think that in this sense, as you were saying, things about DS do not stand, have nothing to do with the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12389	Mr. Stefanovic, the time of the replica is up, half a minute has passed. National MP Dragan Nikolic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary. I have to answer because Mr. Borko Stefanovic had a deep view of our entire parliamentary group with his penetrating green eyes, blue, sorry, my green ones, so I made a permutation. This way, I apologize to Mr Oliver Dulic for making a lapus when I said we were taking Mr. Dulic's term, and after that he returned his mandate. I was thinking about taking away the immunity he called for. All the people who listened, it's clear to them that I made a mistake, with no intention of insulting anyone. Of course, I didn't want to insult DS with anything, I just realized what happened in the previous period. It's not the mirror that's wrong if there's an ugly picture in it. On the other hand, there are several on-call lawsuits amongst lawmakers who keep coming forward and who are constantly intruding from cards that stand or do not stand in the MP's unit, to how someone is primitively expressing themselves. Of course, that MP came out of the O.R., but it'll be faster or better when he comes here to put on a card and to seek immediate violation of the Rules of Procedure, you give it to him, and they use it very extensively, at the same time as the highest ratings in Serbia of this Assembly. So today Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic came in when he estimated the best time for his dramatics. He came and said a few things, raised tension, told lies, charades, called our minister, Mr. Selakovic, a liar and a man who doesn't know what he's saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12391	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12392	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, but above all, the citizens of Serbia, the DS today, as well as many times in its history, must again stand on the defender of democracy firmly, responsibly, courageously and oppose the coup, legal violence and the introduction of dictatorship into our country. Because this political execution that we are witnessing today and that we are trying to prevent today is not an attempt to deal with a woman who has a name and name, it's an attempt to deal with independent institutions, with a judicial branch of government, by those who have been in their political past and how they have rebelled against this tormented institution for the past 12 years. I must tell you, this brutal indignation is being carried out by the same ones who destroyed those institutions, armed, denied, humiliated, destroyed, those are the same ones who led this country to ruin. These are the same ones whose institutions were an obstacle to self-will and self-government. Perhaps those who have so zealously armed, humiliated and disgraced this country can deceive someone when they accept a rhetoric that was once a traitor to them, and today it is so receptive to them. Maybe they can trick someone when they take the badge off their laps without making a mistake and they can't remove that scar on their heart. They may be able to put on a European frak and act as Europeans, but they can't cover up what is the motive of their political action, with no microcry, with a tananic voice, with a farce, which is the motive of their political action, which is a keen desire, an insatiable passion for nothing controlled, unlimited power. Power is what those people who are replacing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court today want with nothing controlled, unlimited power. I wonder where these people got the courage to try this farce with falsified diplomats to bring to the level of legal science with DS representatives. There's really a man who needs to be very brave to try to do that. Of course, and the debacle that they experienced today in that field here brings them down to what is only eternal, to legal violence. We have never used violence, but we have always known that we respond to this violence with arguments, facts, that bravely, regardless of the consequences that this will produce for us, these same arguments beat that violence, whether it's legal, physical and any other, to which they have exposed the citizens of this country, or us from the DS. The way they conduct the discussion, where they don't even hesitate to refer to the Nate Mesarevic family in their discussions, saying that her son was taking an adventure during his mother's term. Well, I think every parent wants his child to make an adventure. I am personally convinced that Tomislav also wants his son Radomir to go on an adventure, so that he can get some more Audi gifts during his term. But you know what we're witnessing today. We are witnessing the realization of Tomislav Nikolic's pre-election promise, which he said - when I come to power, I will review the verdict on the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Well, that's the darkness. Because of that sentence, you're replacing Nata Mesarevic today. This topic hurts, and that's why you're running here – the topic. Because of this sentence, which reads: when I come to power, I will question the verdict of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, and it is known that the signator of that verdict is Nata Mesarevic, there lies your keen desire to avenge this woman for that judgment. There is no better birthday present for Tomislav Nikolic tomorrow than to say – here we have replaced Nata Mesarevic and now Mr Nikolic you can calmly feel that you look in the mirror when you hear a sentence – if you ever meet Zoran Djindjic these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12393	Mr. Milivoevich, I had to temporarily turn off your microphone, because you can't hear me. You're engaged in a discussion. Please, come back to the subject. This is not about the subject of Tomislav Nikolic, I don't know anyone else, but it's about the debate here, and I'm asking you to get back on the subject. Here you go. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12394	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for making sure I don't get carried away. I will never say that – if anyone sees Zoran Djindjic these days, let him tell him that Josip Broz Tito had problems with his leg before he died. I've never been... Please calm your restless conscience. This is where the restless conscience speaks, not the MPs speak. Calm your conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12395	I'm warning you. Don't act like that. No, I'm the president here, and there's no point in reacting to me like that. I can't be a cop here, you understand. Please don't. You have no right, he can, it's his right to speak, it's my duty to assess it and to interrupt it at a given moment. But that's not why you react loudly. It's not right. I ask Srdjan Milivojevic to return to the topic, not to mention the other faces. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12396	May I mention Mr Vladimir Cvian, who said a political decision was made to replace Nata Mesarevic. I'm sorry he's not in the O.R. Where is he? Did you give him up? Did he move to another party, or are you preparing him for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court? I think he's an ideal person, that he meets all the moral criteria, that then his attorney's office will get all the court proceedings in front of any court. But again, I ask you, this political exec that we are witnessing today, which we are watching and which we courageously oppose despite your cries and cries of a restless conscience, is merely a desire to get revenge on Nati Mesarevic for the verdict on the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Now you can find any reason to wind it up in any area, that legal violence...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12397	Mr. Milivojevic, please, I don't think it's correct to make such a single statement that a particular party is being consecrated by something someone did. It's really not right. Please, stick to the agenda and don't insult anyone, so you don't put something you can't prove. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12398	Let's see how we've come to this debate in parliament. Let's see how we have come to the fact that the Constitutional Court has made such a recommendation that we are discussing this issue today. Whether he even gave a recommendation like this or not. Let's see how that goes, I know the President of America wakes up one day as president of America and they hand him a remote control that commands the nuclear arsenal. However, it seems that the President of the Republic has constructed a remote control commanding the Constitutional Court in our presence, as the Constitutional Court has been discussing the emergency procedure in some recommendations, and when parliamentary groups have instructed the initiative to the same Constitutional Court, it has not been published for months. Whatever you think of the DSS initiative, the Constitutional Court hasn't called about the DSS initiative in months. But, I'm saying, there's a remote control that he's working on. So that I don't come here in a situation where I have a controversy with the chairman, I will slowly bring my debate to an end with several important notes. The congregation services are mentioned here today, so I would ask those hardworking people of the congregation to bring a cup and towel here instead of these water bottles, because Pilate at least washed his hands after all, even if he tried to wash his conscience. If one of these days meets Tomislav Nikolic and tells him good health, family happiness, happy birthday and tells him that if he ever sees that Tomislav Nikolic who foretold the murder of Zoran Djindjic, at least in the mirror in the morning when he shaves, let him know that his conscience will be no more peaceful after the shift of Nate Mesarovic, there is no channel Danube – Stalac – Aegean where he will wash his hands and conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12399	Take it easy, first, to see who is according to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević and Marko Atlagic. The word is Marjan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is expected to be an advertised member of 107th and a member of 106th. Member of 107 says – at the session of the National Assembly it is not allowed to directly address the MP to another MP using offensive expressions. Then let's get going. The previous speaker talked about everything except the agenda. He was talking about some defender, a coup we allegedly do, brutal violence, the destruction of institutions, the country's leading to destruction, the ruse of this country, the treasonous rhetoric, some badges, counterfeit diplomats, violence, legal, physical and all others. She's talking about nepotism, but she's telling the lady's son. He's talking about the remote control. He was particularly insulting to the President of the Republic. I really don't know what another MP has to do to give him at least one symbolic warning measure, or that you've warned him at least multiple times. I have to say that he's harshly violated the Rules of Procedure and that this isn't about nepotism or her salary, it's not about the verdict of Giuruvia, it's not about her choosing a dead judge, it's simply about the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. Let the speakers say whether they are in favour of not respecting the Constitutional Court's decision, because that makes us as far away from the rule of law as possible. The rule of law is respect, and in particular respect for the Constitutional Court's decision. Unless they want to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, let them say so. That decision is binding and we have to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12401	Thank you. I'm obliged to respond to the injurement of the Rules of Procedure. So it's true that there were those words, but I did intervene, and I think I pointed out to the MP who, after that, came back in some way to the subject. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12402	I'm calling the chairman on article 106. I will read it – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The previous speaker came out of the agenda four times and mentioned in a very negative sense the president of the state. I ask you not to allow it in the future but to return to the agenda. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, is also his president. He proved it with the more that he came out of the SNS, etc., president of all citizens, and when it comes to the agenda of the president of the state then there really is no need to talk about it today, then we can all have a debate. Please bring this debate to the agenda. I'm sorry for the intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12403	Thank you for your order. I have also responded to this, and I think that in this sense I have and respected the Rules of Procedure, if you think it is necessary to vote in the voting day, no, and I fully agree with all the remarks that during the debate we should stick to the topic. I also ask you that this applies to both the position and the opposition, to stick to the topic of the agenda. Bojan Đuric, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12404	The violation of Article 107(2) took place just before this last round of replication and advertising of Rules of Procedure. So, Mr Nikolic expressed his insults above all about LDP MPs, he presented or spoke the expression of the appeal, I will tell you Mr Babić very much why I feel called because Mr Nikolic was talking about situations, when LDP MPs advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and pointed to a situation that is so common, that SNS MPs are staying out of the O.R. and that their identification cards have been inserted. You're a lawyer like me, and you know no one can be blamed for anything they're doing trying to protect the law, in this case, the Rules of Procedure. That is the only reason I intervened by asking the chairman to prevent such a practice in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12405	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12406	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I like some inspired speeches, but let's keep it on that dignified level. Repeat what current President of the Supreme Cassation Court Nata Mesarevic wrote about his election. The National Assembly's decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and the decision on my choice, by its legal nature, is a legal political act. The Serbian Progressive Party does not commit any legal violence nor does one need to defend the Constitution and law while the SNS is in power. I can also say that my conscience is clean and I have no reason to feel called, and I can also inform some MPs that the election campaign for the President of the Republic of Serbia is over, that the videos are over, that one negative campaign has been completed and that we will never do such a negative campaign as it was done against Tomislav Nikolic, regardless of who our candidate for President of the Republic is. Likewise, those who are constitutional rights are constantly forgetting one fact, which is that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, I must look down, so that I will not be deeply, at the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary, according to the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is not, is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, as a MP for any proposal that does not meet the conditions laid down in the Constitution, I would never vote, so probably dirty fingers to some who have, because they have violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12407	A replica whose exposure, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, hate is a feeling that, in my humble opinion, has, in Article 107, and let me explain, and my materialization. Hatred is like a boomerang, aim at the one you hate, drop the boomerang, and that same boomerang spins around the monument of Evey Andric and comes back and hits you who hate. The May 20th elections said Serbia wants and elects the majority of Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Republic of Serbia. The May 20th elections also made some people aware, so you saw that it wasn't enough for you as the party president, and that it wasn't as good for you as the party president, let alone the president of the country. Do not hate, boomerang returns very quickly, and I am sorry to apologize to you for misusing the Rules of Procedure, but I had to say this, because the most legislative body such as the parliament of the Republic of Serbia should not be a place where hate is promoted. We must respect the institutions, Tomislav Nikolic is the president of the Republic of Serbia by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12409	Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12410	Articles 106 and 107. Mr. Arsic did not speak again about the agenda point and repeated for the second or third time a quote by one of the current Supreme Court presidents, thus trying to prove that there was some political conspiracy during her election and quoted her as saying that the decision on her election was a legal act. I don't know what Mr. Arsic wants with it. Judge Mesarovic was elected president of the Supreme Casualty Court by decision of the Assembly and any decision by the Assembly is legal political, it is not disputed, I just wanted to clarify it, first of all, to Mr Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12411	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12412	Mr. Chairman, I will use the right to reply, because I am repeatedly quoted and mentioned in the discussions of my predecessors. When we talk about hate. Hate is a feeling of intense reluctance towards someone and there have been more philosophical contributions than we've just heard about developing hate. So hate as its ultimate effect can also have a degree of aggression towards someone, and it usually manifests itself, not by firing a boomerang, using much more powerful means, like the sniper from Admiral Geparta's building and the hatred and envy of a man can also be expressed by announcing that this man will be hit by that sniper bullet. Maybe some people are psychic...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12413	Mr. Milivojevic, please, it's not correct to replicate it that way. Synonym sniper, you know what it is and please, don't, it's not a place in the congregation to talk about it, you have another way of saying what you want to say and saying, in a dignified way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12414	I thank Mr Arsenovic, I don't blame you for trying to defend your current coalition partners in this way, but the fact is that one man went to the pay phone and directed the then Prime Minister the next sentence – if one of these days meets Zoran Djindjic, let him tell him that Tito had a problem with his leg before he died. Now you see how she reacts to an unclean conscience. Now the unclean conscience can't stand to sit with his hands shut, the silent and fine voices disappear and move, owing, grasping his head. This isn't a terrible court. Don't be afraid of me. That man is waiting for you up there among the stars, so explain to him what hate is and what is love.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12415	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, and Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12416	With a little emotion maybe, it's not right to bring things up from one completely wrong angle, about the Democratic Party. We're not exorcising anyone, the former president of the party has preserved a very high position, a man of great reputation and influence in the DS. We, Boris Tadic, would never have had a caste like you, Tomislav Nikolic. I'm telling you to hear me better, I learned that from your president. So, if nothing else, you sent Mr Tomislav Nikolic into political retirement. You have publicly rejected his platform here, in front of millions of Serbian citizens. Why am I telling you this? Let me explain. (President: Mr. Stefanovic, I beg you... ) Don’t, just don’t let your colleagues get upset, because I’m not answering the truth, even perhaps, to say, not the appropriate dictionary, which was actually used at the edge of a debate about an important initiative, to be allowed again. So when Mr. Arsic is calm then he doesn't have a former regime. When he's not calm, then it's the former regime. When Mr. Arsic comes out, Mr. Babic tells us what's going on in the DS. That would be as if I were to say, "What are your divisions like?" Imagine when it comes out. That's what I told you in May, remember Mr. Granny, so you were also laughing. Time shows, not hatred, not boomerangs, but time shows who was right. That's what's sad, what you should think when you raise a sword to a political opponent, think about it, and that's where I agree with you, how it comes back. But then, always look in your backyard. We looked in our backyard and saw things that didn't work out, and we made those things right. These processes are long and are just waiting for the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12417	Thank you. The word is Jovan Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12418	Mr. Chairman, Article 27. Please bring this whole debate on an extremely important topic to the level that deserves to be discussed in the Supreme Cassation Court and one of the most important institutions in the area of justice. Today, we have thrown ourselves very negatively at all the most important institutions, following the discussion of today's MPs, and the Supreme Cassation Court, and the Constitutional Court, and the National Assembly, and the President of the Republic. These discussions affect the collapse of all the most important institutions in the Republic of Serbia. DSS MPs, Col. Milica Radovic, worked hard to bring this issue to an end seriously, with arguments that would help come out of this legal problem in the best possible way, trying to respect the institution's dignity, no matter what we think about the 2009 election, we said that, and no matter what we think of today's session. I leave my colleague Milos Aligrudic to see if he will participate further in the debate, but the way we discussed today is something that is not suitable for such an important topic and for all of us to respect the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you once again to end this debate in this way and to return to this issue, respecting the presence of the minister, the presence of the High Council of the judiciary and hopefully the importance of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12419	Mr. Palalic, I fully agree with you, but in many ways this depends not only on me, but also on the co-operation of the MPs. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12420	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I am always in my discussions as much as possible to read the Constitution. First, no one sent Tomislav Nikolic into political retirement. His pre-election promise was if he was elected president of the Republic of Serbia, he would resign as SNS president and resign to SNS membership. This shall be subject to Article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because the president of the Republic of Serbia expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the Constitution says, and it's his moral obligation, not only to fulfill his pre-election promise, his escape, and to adhere to the Constitution. Since it's a replica, I'm responding to the discussions of previous speakers. As far as these things are concerned about what SNS is being accused of, I don't want to talk about what problems the previous rule of law had with judicial reform, what were the reports of the European Commission, what about 638 solutions to the termination of a judicial function without justification, without a lesson in legal medicine? I don't exactly want to talk about how 638 judges at the Constitutional Court's intervention got the same explanation as why they're stopping being held in court. That means 638 people are the same. That's not possible. There aren't even two of the same men. So, as far as that goes, don't honor us. I don't hate anybody, I can love someone or I don't love them. I fear no one but God, so I see that everything I do, even if I do wrong, that my conscience is clean because I did it in the best of my ability, which apparently was not the goal of many others who ruled this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12421	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic, and we're done with this replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12422	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue using the right to reply, because I have been mentioned several times. I will continue as SNS MP, Mr Veroljub Arsic, and remind me of the pre-election slogan between the two rounds of the presidential election, President Tomislav Nikolic, who voted – the president of all citizens, not the political parties. The problem of those who do not advocate these, the Constitution of the prescribed value, is not only fulfilled that pre-election promise, but what we have begun and I am not saying that on this path we have stopped, nor that we are satisfied with what we have done so far, but we have begun to make pre-election promises to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we are fulfilling, and in the fight against corruption and organised crime, the Law on Public Procurement has been passed. Serbia is becoming a place for people, investors from all over the world, from the United Arab Emirates. The public debt has been lowered to below 60%, after a long time and Serbia becomes a more breathing country, and I am sure in the future and in which to live better. In the spirit of what Mr. Palalic said, I completely agree, today is a great Orthodox holiday, the glory of all winemakers, St. Trifun and I, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, all the Serb hosts who celebrate today, all the winemakers, want a happy Christian glory.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12423	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12424	Let's go with St. John's. Trifuna, however, on a specific subject. True, it is certain that I am in a certain way in a difficult situation, because after the inspired speech of my esteemed colleague Srdjan Milivojevic, who in my opinion upsets the unclean conscience of many, I am in a position to talk about the subject itself. At the beginning of my speech, I would like first to express my great pleasure that they are here with us now in Mrs Mirjana Ilic's room, Vice President of the VSS. Then, election members from the line of judges, Mrs Sonja Vidanovic, Mr Miroljub Tomic. He was up until recently Mr. Aleksandar Stoiljkovski and another member of the VSS, which is the minister of justice and state administration and member of the VSS according to the position, Mr. Nikola Selakovic, who has received the right and the obligation and responsibility to, precisely, defend the positions of the VSS here, regardless of what is also the representative of the executive authority in the state. I'm afraid maybe it can create some way and a reserve, is it the first in the VSS, except for the president of the VSS, the president of the executive or vice president of the VSS? But I would be an elephant once again to believe that the division of the duty that you have assessed that Mr. Nikola Selakovic may be better and more eloquent to defend the attitudes of the VSS. True, the fact is that, according to the information I have at my disposal, it was sent by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration on 11 January by Minister Nikola Selakovic, the High Council of the Judiciary, a letter indicating "very urgent", where it is proposed that the High Council of the Judiciary, in accordance with the provisions of Article 61(1). The Constitutional Court Act, etc., proposes that the High Judicial Council refer a proposal to the National Assembly in order to put the decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court out of force as soon as possible. It's an initiative, so it's also a proposal to the High Judiciary Council. The High Judicial Council then decided to propose a decision to the National Assembly on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I point to these two differences because during the discussion, there was a speech on what the High Council of the Judiciary proposed to the National Assembly in time, and what the National Assembly had decided. That's where I go back to what was subject to the Constitutional Court's review. Therefore, the Constitutional Court found that the provision of Article 102, paragraph 5. The law on judges is not in accordance with the Constitution. This provision of Article 102, paragraph 5. The law on judges began to apply on 1 January 2010. I'm asking everyone who can track this to pay attention to the date. So that provision of Article 102, paragraph 5. The Law on Judges began to apply on 1 January 2010, and I think most of us have a decision ahead of us to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, that this was done on 30 November 2009. So in 2009, it was not possible to apply a provision that began to apply on 1 January 2010. Let's be logical. How can someone be elected on the basis of Article 102? The Law on Judges in November 2009, and only on 1 January 2010, does this provision begin to apply? So who's normal here and who's not normal? Let's see why then the Constitutional Court's decision to assess the unconstitutional nature of Article 102 can refer to the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It can't be done. It is normal that she was selected on the basis of Article 144(1). The constitution and under the law governing the application of the Constitution, which is a member of the 7th Constitutional Law, which says the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court will be carried out within 90 days at the latest. Thus, the constitutional law has stated how this provision of Article 144(1) will apply. The Constitution. This is about the election of Ms. Nate Mesarevic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court and I think who wants to just compare the decision with the current text of the law can conclude that in relation to the choice of Mrs. Nate Mesarevic, the Constitutional Court is practically if it has been engaged and if it has not been dealt with, it is immaterial. Secondly, in terms of decision-making, we can only be bound by the decree of the Constitutional Court. The decision of the Constitutional Court shall state: Article 102, paragraph 5. The law on judges is not in accordance with the Constitution. How is this decision carried out? By saying that this provision does not comply with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has been removed from the legal system. Dot, over, made a decision. Second, Article 171(2). The Constitution says: The Constitutional Court shall by its decision regulate the way it is executed when necessary. The Constitutional Court did not write anything about how to execute it. So he obviously just put that provision out of force and that's it. I'm asking a question and that's why I'm glad they're representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, I don't like to talk behind my back, I like to look people in the eyes and tell them when I think a decision is wrong. I don't dispute anyone individually, anyone on personality, anyone on the subject of profession and all that, but here I oppose your opinion and your proposal for a decision that has arrived here in the procedure in front of the National Assembly. I believe that this proposal for a decision does not comply with Article 144. The Constitution, especially with attitude 3 and attitude 4. Namely, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court ceases his post before the time on which he was elected at his request. That's one thing. Secondly, it is possible, on the basis of or on the basis of a legal basis, to dismiss the President of the Court. There is a possibility, and in paragraph 4, the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary has been defined in this discharge procedure, but says the President of the Supreme Cassation Court can cease his office by acting under the law of the prescribed conditions for the termination of the court's office. To make that clear, I'm trying to read the law, so it's not like someone interpreted it one way or another. What are the reasons for stopping the judge's office? In head four. The Law on Judges in Article 57 under the heading "Desistance of Judges" and the subheading "All Reasons", there are the prescribed conditions for the termination of the Judge's office: when the Judge performs his working life and when he permanently loses his ability to perform his duties as judge. That's the two reasons, and only those two reasons can be the reason for stopping the judge's office. We have no information that Mrs. Nata Mesarevic has completed her working life or that she has permanently lost her ability to perform judicial functions. That could be the reason. No other reason can be. If we go to a broad interpretation, beyond all the reasons that are in the law, then we are in a situation that will cause total legal uncertainty in Serbia. What's that gonna mean? In addition to the reasons for dispensing judges, if the National Assembly decides, the question now is whose proposal. Apparently on everyone's proposal, both the authorized and the unauthorized proposer. If we accept this position, that the unauthorized are authorised, every judge in Subotica, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Belgrade and small towns will be able to make a decision on the end of the Judge's office, because obviously it will not be the reason for the termination, when the working century is over and when the work ability is permanently lost or when the conditions for resolution are obtained, but Mr Tomic, I think that the judge in Kragujevac, is able to say by the decision of the National Assembly – let it be no more, not to be resolved, but the Assembly to make a decision on the termination of the term of office. That's one example. Far from standing up for such a thing, but I'm just an example that if we break this legal practice, it's over, there's no legal certainty. On the other hand, I think no matter how politically I find it unacceptable for the representatives of the executive authority to be the ones who are proposing the termination of office. I think it is inappropriate, but even the proposal that Mr Selakovic made to the High Council of the judiciary, which differs from the decision of the High Council of the judiciary, with regard to putting out of force the decision, would have made more sense than what came into the procedure before the National Assembly. True, such a proposal was not meant to go towards the High Council of the Judiciary, but rather to go by it, or anyone else, probably before the Assembly Committee, rather than by the representatives of the executive authority, to the National Assembly, rather than through the Supreme Council of the judiciary. That I had a procedural opportunity on the board when Mr. Petar Petrovic proposed a report that would send the tide and when he read that report and when I answered the word and asked to discuss it, when I was prevented from telling me why this report was wrong, then I was not allowed on board. Reports were simply read, and this could not be discussed. That is why, we have now given the position that we should have ended up on the board speaking here in plenary and in a certain way, in citizens we show why there are huge concerns about the motion for a decision that has arrived in the procedure in front of the National Assembly and which is why someone will interpret, or perhaps misread the work of the High Court Council. I don't want to argue with that, but based on these decisions, it is obvious that the situation itself contests the work of the High Council of the judiciary at least in this part and in this procedure of making this decision and proposing a decision to the National Assembly. I also referred to this on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. If checked, only a few MPs supported me when I felt this decision was not in line with the legal system. Mrs. Bulajic was there and a few more MPs, but if everyone wanted to hear more on the board, they wouldn't be in a situation to embarrass us here on the tide. What's worse is that voting this decision threatens to embarrass the National Assembly in front of the public, because this is not only unconstitutional but in a certain way a single precedent, a new case many will be able to look up to and say - if it could be with the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to say turkey dots no longer apply, because it is no longer in that function. So anyone can say, "Now let's not be a judge." Not for the reason that he did the crime, not for the reason that he didn't do it right, that he was resolved, but purely volunteering whether we wanted to or not. That is why I urge you all once again to consider the possible long-term legal consequences of a decision like this. I'm not talking about political reasons. I can doubt the political background of such a request for Mrs Nate Mesarovic's shift. Many of our colleagues have talked here about the real reasons for Mrs. Nate Mesarovic's shift. Many have talked about political statements that were made not only in the political campaign, many have talked about the personal relations of individual participants in this process, those who submitted the initiative and those who appeared. Right now, I'm trying to deprive the National Assembly of party bickering and burning who wanted it, who's the commander, who's the initiator, who's the contractor and everything. I only take the discussion into account whether such a decision can be in accordance with the Constitution or is deeply out of line with the Constitution and is deeply out of line with Article 144(3) of the Law of the prescribed conditions for the termination of the judicial office. On the Justice Committee, I asked representatives of the High Council of the judiciary to give me what is the legal reason for all the reasons that are listed as such in Article 57. Of all the reasons that are listed in article 57, which is the reason that the High Council of the Judiciary has led to propose such a decision that I believe that if the National Assembly voted that we would all be ashamed. I didn't get the answer. True, I received my answer by referring to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which treats the procedure of the National Assembly, not the legal reason. I asked – where does it say it in the Constitution, where does it say it in a ratified international agreement, where does it say it in the law, explicitly? Especially where it says it in article 57, like all the reasons for stopping the judge's office? Unless there's a reason we can't make a decision like this. I only ask you that if we make a decision, if most of the 250 MPs of any kind decide and God forbid this motion to cease the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, that we all be aware of the consequences of this decision. Once again, I ask you, without a passion, without party blindness, to assess whether such a decision, which is proposed, can cause inconceivable consequences on our legal and constitutional system, or not? It is not too late to give up such a proposal for a decision and not to vote this decision, to preserve the integrity and the High Council of the judiciary and the member of the High Council of the judiciary, who is also a representative of the executive authority, Mr Selakovic, who has legally proposed a more correct matter even if it can be discussed. In any case, I ask that we no longer discuss the Constitutional Court's decision that has put out of force a provision that has started to apply for a month and something stronger than Mrs. Nate Mesarovic's election as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Once again, I ask all of you to think about this so we don't face any of these mistakes tomorrow from those who are watching all of us and who are in a position to assess whether we're going to become a serious state. upside down, to be a banana state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12425	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12426	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the exception of a little earlier discussion, those before what had been going on for hours, really did not serve the honor of discussing everything and everything except what was on the agenda, and despite the fact that we disagreed in the rather part of the discussion with the predecessor, I think that it was very long and correct. Let's see what's the key here. Since I am not interested in the political disputes that are being heard here, nor am I interested, nor am I interested in discussing the character and the work of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court Nate Mesarevic, nor is it a topic of conversation, nor is it an argument in favour of its good performance of function or bad, it is completely out of discussion today. What I have a little bit of a burning of ears or what I want to talk about is some of the dilemmas that have been made here in relation to the respect of the Constitution and the law in this country, when it comes to the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, when it comes to the procedure itself, and when it comes to the role and place of the Constitutional Court decision, which is repeatedly mentioned here and which, as far as I understood and served and served as a motive, was the basis for starting this procedure today in the Assembly. It is therefore impossible to appreciate in any way the proposal that is now on the agenda to stop the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, if we do not shed light on the circumstances that have led to the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So I'll remind you that's the first Supreme Court President we've ever had, that's one. Two, how did the election come? First, the choice is foreseen by the Constitution, regardless of what this repetition is, it simply has to be done and the Constitution provides for it by Article 144 and tells exactly what conditions are necessary to meet in order to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Since this is not a legal school, nor are the viewers in charge of this transmission to suffer, I will say what is necessary for the discussion, it is that one of these conditions was that there was also the position of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, an opinion on the candidate for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court that he would be elected at all. So without it, choice is impossible. We have heard here that the dilemma about whether the choice was made directly on the basis of this provision of the Constitution or whether the choice was made in this National Assembly on the basis of the Law on Judges, i.e. the Novated Article 102. The law on judges, which does not know this condition for a general session of the Supreme Cassation Court. The answer to this question should depend on our judgment on all this. The problem's in the next one. If the choice is made by application of Article 102. The law on judges, which it was not, simply could not be, because at the time of the election, that Article 102 did not enter into force and I agree with some DS colleagues. That's absolutely true. So that's true on that side. Then what made that choice? Based on the Constitution. Again, I agree with my colleagues from the SNS that it is impossible to apply this kind of constitution, to make the choice of President of the Cassation Court directly, and even to imagine that it was possible, unequivocally, this debate today showed, and even between whom it is not disputed here, that even in that imaginary case, it was not possible, it was not met this condition, and this was the previous general session of the Supreme Cassation Court, because the Casation Court was not even there at that moment, neither the judges were elected, it was neither constitutional. So we have two impossible situations to choose from the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. One is if he was elected by the letter of the Constitution directly, hence the flagrant violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by the National Assembly and it is an undisputed fact. If some tense interpretation would have led to the choice to subdue under the Law on Judges, despite the fact that the provision came into force later, although I do not know which legal gymnastics to come, then that provision that would allow for the lack of this condition – a general session of the Supreme Cassation Court giving an opinion, then it turns out that this condition is just the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which declares an unconstitutional provision. Then what do we have here? We here have undeniably the first elected President of the Supreme Cassation Court in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner. Can we agree on that simple fact, not on what the English would say "mambo-jambo" all day about who's to blame? It's important who's responsible, who's responsible, and I'm going to say something about it. Let's discuss the facts first. So, the fact is that, unfortunately, the first President of the Supreme Cassation Court in Serbia was elected against the Constitution and regardless of the law and in the final consensus and against the law, when we agree the facts from the beginning to the end. I will no longer ask if the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary is right, whether it is in accordance with the Constitution and the law, whether this form that is proposed to us here is correct or not. And I'm going to say something about that. Anyway, I have a previous question. Before I ask myself that, what do we, as MPs, owe to the citizens who elected us here and who swore to respect the Constitution and the law? What do we owe them before that? We owe it to them to correct what wasn't done right. Apart from Milica Radovic, who, to some extent, opposed to the methodology proposed here, I have not heard any of the opposition come out here and say sorry, you are wrong as you suggested, let's do something else, because people, it is not disputed that we, unfortunately, have the elected Supreme Cassation Court president in an anti-constitutional and illegal way and this situation is unsustainable and we cannot act crazy and let this function, and we are not talking about a person at all, survive until the end of the mandate, because it is a situation both logical and constitutional and legally unsustainable. Instead of getting out with that proposal and saying – if this is not good, what is good, we are here discussing whether or not Nata Mesarevic should have been removed. I'm sorry, but such a debate with such a topic humiliates the citizens of Serbia. It is not something that we, as ambassadors of the people, do not deserve, nor do those who fall into that trap themselves, and do so. So I a little bit commended the former speaker Srdjan Mikovic, with whom I agree on what he was talking about, but who at least talked about the topic the way the topic opened. We can't escape from political implications, I'll have them, but let's talk reason and logically about this. What difference does it make if Nata Mesarevic did a good job or had phenomenal actions and did she ruin the judiciary? It's a topic for a possible debate on the resolution of Nate Mesarevic, which we obviously won't be looking at here. That would be the theme for a session like this. Now what do I want to tell you, what is my final message when it comes to the result of all this? My message to the citizens is that we have some methods to resolve this galamatias. Is this one the best? I don't know. We suggested the other one. How are we going to make a concrete statement about this method, because there are no amendments here, in that sense? That's what we'll decide as a group until voting day. We'll get everything out of the way, both political arguments and political-legal and the relationship to constitutionality and legality, a complete assessment of the breach of order. That's what we'll have in mind when we make a decision on the vote. But we urge that question to be resolved. It's not a personal question. What difference does it make how Nata Mesarovic is? Minister Nikola Selakovic said at one point, I will paraphrasise it, that in a day, two in a prescribed procedure, on the basis of the Constitution and the law, the same person may be proposed for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and may be elected here. Whether we and the MPs agree or disagree, then it is a political debate on the work behind someone. So let's not deal with things that are completely ephemeral in this regard and bring the court to a constitutional order from a completely party and a low-political angle. So that's something that's absolutely inadmissible. Next, what do we have? What would be the conclusion here? We have complete chaos, lawlessness in the election process. It's an indisputable thing. We have several years of maintaining such a elected person in that function, without attempts by the National Assembly, or any other institution, including the Constitutional Court itself, which I will say something else about, to resolve this issue. We have the fact that the DSS pointed to that in the election and when it was passed that law, and no one cared, especially the ruling majority, at that point. It doesn't matter. Now it sounds extremely hypocritical that someone who's such a galamatias, such chaos has come to mind, says that now, I'm not discussing myself, I don't even understand whether this proposal is now constitutional or not. I think it is, at the very end of the line. In a procedural sense, it is problematic, but if it were quite unconstitutional, I would disagree, but to discuss it now using such big words, and to fully overlook that chaos occurred at a time much earlier. On what basis can we ask in any law, the Constitution, in any general legal act, to resolve this problem? How can we ask for a solution to the problem in the general act, the law or the constitution, when neither the constitutional text of the law nor the constitutional text of the law can even be madly predicted by such a carambol and such chaos? So this is a unique situation where we are. I fully agree that for a unique situation, there must be a unique solution. The only thing we objected to is that maybe that should have been better measured, done differently. We're not happy with the methodology. So we agree, but it can't go infinitum. He can't go on forever like this. What do we say now? It doesn't matter that the constitution has been drastically broken, that the laws of the state have been broken, that the Assembly adopts acts, at one point to a law that has not even entered into force, then reshaping that proposal, as we are not to the law but to the Constitution, and then they don't respect the Constitution. It can't go completely without any consequences. That's impossible. Guys, I can't figure it out, like I can't figure out another thing, and that's what I'm gonna end up with because I don't even see the point of endless discussion. So I can't figure out another thing. No, and the minister here said, and I disagree with you, Mr. Minister, that the Constitutional Court in our constitutional system is a white bear MP or a protected beast that cannot be touched. Perhaps for you, Minister, I agree, you are the executive authority. But I have the right to say what I think of the Constitutional Court's work. I claim that, apart from irresponsible behavior, or who knows what motives I don't want to go into at all because that would only lead us to further discussion, which is why this is arranged with the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, I say that 50% for the whole chaos that we have today is the relation of the Constitutional Court to our own business. The Constitutional Court has put the decision out of force of Article 102 on how to vote, the interim election, the first election of the Supreme Cassation Court president, out of force late. What have they been doing for so long? Someone here said, I mean from LDP, I guess they were waiting for the power to change. You all know very well that I disagree with the LDP's views politically at all, but when something is said that is true, simply a man cannot disagree. Yeah, they were probably waiting for the power to change. Unbelievable. Sure. Then you wait with a decision, for example, on the Vojvodina Act. What were you waiting for? The same to change power. Then they saw that even the new government wasn't fully in the mood for such a radical approach, so they blocked the Statute of Vojvodina. Then the abolition of the regulations, flagrantly unconstitutional regulations and the illegal ones, is required on agreements concluded between Stefanovic and Tahiri. So, it's wanted by the DSS and some MPs, and it's a formal proposal made by the Constitutional Court and then it's stalled. Then you, Minister, asked the Constitutional Court to stop the procedure, we think it's wrong, but there's the Constitutional Court to assess it, and then the Constitutional Court doesn't decide on your proposal – neither did he refuse it, nor did he accept it, and so it is now in the infinitum. I want to tell you that one country can't do that. Now what do we have to do? Let's suggest this, in order for this Constitutional Court to be easy to do, maybe we should all retire nicely for one to ten years and say there's no Parliament, no executive authority, no one to be afraid of, no one to get involved in. Here, you have the items you have so far and do them in a valid way. That really doesn't make sense. We don't have a mechanism to deal with it. If there is a mechanism, believe me, I claim that this is the way to go out for a pay phone and say, "Maybe one of them listens to this." There's no need for them to be afraid of anyone from my political party. There's no point and there's no reason to be afraid of anyone from DS, SNS or anyone else. If we have a system or if it's our mental set of all of us together to work that way, it has to get in the way once. They're not here to run the state policy, they're here to answer the question they've been asked. If this question had been answered three and a half years ago, the question we're talking about here today would have been different. What I don't think makes sense is that now you're talking about a complete twist and that here you're discussing a completely ephemeral thing and that it's going into some measure of value or valuelessness of the character and the work of Nate Mesarevic, or something about her character and her work. That's completely pointless. Our job is to solve this problem. You said how you thought he could be saved. We're not sure that's the best way. All right, we'll talk about it, and we'll have a broader context than the proposal itself. We think it's our primary task to establish the rule of the Constitution and the law and that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12427	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12428	Mr. Minister, distinguished members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we were exposed, not only to ourselves but to the whole Serbian public and to all citizens of Serbia, two kinds of discussions. Two different concepts were offered in this highest legislative home of the Republic of Serbia. One established in the Constitution, founded in the laws of the Republic of Serbia and in the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. This kind of argument was also served by Mr Nikola Selakovic, and most of the MPs who support this decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I think that is an argument suitable for parliament, that is, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We also had another kind of speech and failed attempts to link Serbia's Constitutional Court decisions to politics and political decisions. However, what I would say for the sake of the public, I might say again, which is that no judge of the Serbian Constitutional Court of Serbia has proposed or has the right, nor wants to interfere with an independent branch of the judiciary, and therefore, we cannot make any connection with these people and their decisions to influence them. We were also exposed to various conspiracy theories, that this decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, in fact, was revenge on Mrs. Nati Mesarevic for some decisions and judgments she made in her career. By using such an argument, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can freely ask the creators, at the very least, scandalous judicial reform – why did you take revenge on the hundreds of judges who lost their judicial office in judicial reform? Because of the judgments they made, or because of the judgments that you'd subflyed to them, which they had the courage not to make? I underline, with this decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which I am sure the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will confirm, Mrs Nata Mesarevic does not remain without a judicial post. It remains the Supreme Court of Cassation judge, but will not be the president of the court. Tell me if Mrs. Nata Mesarevic was born in that chair, is that her grandfather's, is she the best to perform that function? If so, we will make a decision and Ms. Nata Mesarevic will continue to be it, but let us make that decision according to the law, according to the Constitution, according to what is prescribed in the Republic of Serbia, rather than ominously, as was done now. Today we attended once, in my humble opinion, from the fate of our society. A fate that makes us as a nation, as a state, as a society, unable to move forward, we cannot move forward, we cannot raise our head, as long as in this highest legislative home of the Republic of Serbia values are promoted, where a graduate dramatologist will learn the right of a top lawyer, and then probably a top lawyer will teach engineer how to project bridges and buildings. It is devastating and we must not promote it here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I am not a lawyer, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as are most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to try to avoid all the different members and attitudes that fellow lawyers and lawyers have elaborated in the previous exhibition. These members of the parentheses, the paragraphs know, as in the song Gjorge Balasevic, sometimes to confuse. In my humble opinion, this is about a Hamlet question that has a very simple answer. Is it according to the law and is it normal, just as Mr Selakovic pointed out, to elect first the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and only the judges of that Supreme Cassation Court, and, by the way, that President of the Supreme Cassation Court must be elected by the Supreme Court of Cassation. That's the point. That's why we spent so much time today. Of course not, and of course, that this decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia is actually the result of a hoax that some people have done with knowledge or ignorance, whether they want to or not. For the Serbian Progressive Party, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is sacred and the Serbian Progressive Party will support the decision in the day of voting and will vote in favour of such a decision. This decision does not shed any light on anyone in Serbia, no one remains without a judicial post, but opens the possibility of the election of the Supreme Cassation Court president in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone who does not want to work under the Constitution, who does not want to work under the law of the Republic of Serbia, can come out freely, can say so freely, but the partner and the talker in the Serbian Progressive Party will not find it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12429	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12430	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the end of this discussion, I can point out that many have used their business rights to give their opinion. Was that in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the politics of their party, I'm not going into it. I can say that this whole procedure, which is now being conducted in front of the Serbian Parliament, has nothing to do with the fact that the current Supreme Court President has ruled on the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. Maybe it was a motive, when he was made a choice. It's the right of that political option that supported it, and I'm not going to go into it. I also don't want to go into that story about how justice reform was done, but what I want to point out is that we have a Constitutional Court decision that is final, executive and binding. We have the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court Act, that it is prescribed that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and general binding. Article 171 The Constitution – everyone is obliged to respect and enforce the Constitutional Court's decision and Article 104. The Constitutional Court Act – all state and other bodies and organisations are obliged to implement and comply with decisions of the Constitutional Court. The legislation gives not only the right, but also the obligation and the minister of justice and the High Council of the judiciary, as well as the National Assembly of Serbia, to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. It is a great upheaval to prove that the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court has been elected under Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 1, does not drink water. Here, I repeat again, I have in front of me a memo from the High Council of the Judiciary, which is based on Article 13(4). Law on the High Council of the judiciary and on Article 102. The Law on Judges, held on 11 November 2009, established a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and proposed the same president. Here I have a proposal for a decision delivered by the High Council of the Judiciary to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on the proposal for a decision, not someone else, the MPs declared themselves in the day of the vote. Was there any subsequent application of Article 102 paragraph 5? Yes, it is. Let's take a look at the explanation. Someone says the explanation doesn't matter. It's not crucial, but we see from that explanation the whole process of electing the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In that explanation, it states that the High Council of the judiciary is, on the basis of the provision of Article 47, and in relation to Article 80(1) and Article 102(5), paragraph 5. The Law on Judges, announced a choice for President of the Supreme Cassation Court in the daily "Politika" on 16 October 2009 and in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 85/09 since 19 October 2009. At a session held on 11 November 2009, chaired by Djurjin Bjelobab, the High Council of the Judiciary, in the absence of the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which was excluded, unanimously made the decision to propose the current president for the Supreme Cassation Court. So it's a legal lead, how things happened and how we got into the procedure for electing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The very excuse that the law was flawed does not justify those who passed that law and did not take all the facts into account when the law was passed. You had to take care of that when you passed the law, when you were simply not able, as the ruling majority, to distinguish often reckless attacks and criticisms for some law, and often the well-intentioned ones, and there were such that the law was likened to the Constitution, the legal system and the real facts of life. Furthermore, we have this story about the formal part and its epilogue in the stenographic notes that are part of the minutes of the Justice and Administration Committee, held on 27 November 2009, in which it reads, quote: "As we first give an opinion on the election president of the Supreme Cassation Court, we need to agree on the form of how we are going to refer it to the Assembly. I think the law says that we are giving an opinion and that we need to make it clear whether we support the election of a president or not to support a candidate for the election of a Supreme Cassation Court president. So it needs to be positive or negative. I believe that any lack of a positive or negative opinion cannot ensure a further procedure of choice." There was the right one who said that, and then there was the opportunity to stop with one decision that made all of us, including the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court, so many problems. "Since a proposal has been made here by the High Council of the Court to make a decision on the election and form of a legal act, which no one can change anymore, I think we should define ourselves to give the opinion that the Assembly should make a choice on the basis of this legal act, and that the legal act should then be changed when published in the Official Messenger." "That's inadmissible. Let's move on. In Article 79, it seems to me, the Law on Judges of the President of the Supreme Casualty Court, among the judges of that court, on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, is, in the opinion of the General Session of the National Assembly, elected by the National Assembly. On 30 November 2009, the president of the Supreme Cassation Court who did not exist was elected. Not only did he not exist, but the president was not elected Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court. The following application of Article 144(1) shall be made. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is nothing more than improvising how to play the Constitution and the Law on Judges. All the lawyers involved should be ashamed of it, so I do not see any reason why the National Assembly would not act on the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Not only must he not act, but he also has an obligation to act. The very fact that the Constitutional Court's decision does not specify a way of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision does not mean that the state body, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, does not have to and cannot endure the decision. They have to and they can. For now, in the opinion of all those who have seriously considered this legal problem, there is no need to make a special decision of the Constitutional Court on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. This is what happens when a state body does not execute the Constitutional Court's decision, so we had to, say, by the end of 2010, request the Constitutional Court to determine how to implement its decision, when it comes to the mandates of the councils of the units of local self-government. At that time, the state authorities, even courts, advertised incompetent. Do you feel that the National Assembly should appear unauthorized? I personally don't think it should and should follow the Constitutional Court's decision, and that the Constitutional Court's decision should be carried out. There's no point in saying that someone here said that Nata Mesarovic was a bad judge and there's no point in getting her revenge. It is especially evident from the fact that she remains a judge. So this proposal for a decision to implement the Constitutional Court's decision is, on purpose, what I am saying, that is, the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Court of Cassation is not a resolution. If it were a solution, those who defended Nata Mesarovic and asked for her to attend the session here, then there would be room for her to defend herself and to answer for what she did as president of the Supreme Cassation Court. Here she's not a party in the process. Here the party is in the process of proposing acts and MPs, no matter which political party they belong to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12431	With no more speakers on the list, I assume that Borislav Stefanovic and Milica Radovic want to use the time of the authorised representative. Is that right? Yeah. All right. I ask Srdjan Mikovic on what basis does he answer? (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: Article 104 since I explained. No, you have no right. I give the word to Milic Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12432	Ladies and gentlemen, the few MPs, members of the High Council of the Judiciary, this debate tonight looked like everything, just didn't look like one serious, argumentable debate similar to this home. My colleague Aligrudić and I are truly the deepest shame that we took part in this debate today, and we participated only because we wanted to point out the necessity of respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the necessity of respect for the legality in the conduct of the National Assembly today. It is obvious that these two things have failed to be reconciled and it is obvious that what was obviously also in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and today and always, that only the DSS MPs in this House are important to protect the principles of constitutionality and legality. I'm not the least bit happy to say that, but I have to tell you that I am glad that at least our performances today have managed to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, but I am also very sorry that we participated in a cheap political performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12433	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. You have seven minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12434	Thank you. It is not true that the debate has been inappropriate all along and it is not true that no one has made any suggestions and it is not true that you are the angels of salvation who will come from the side and from the moral heights to give us advice. Be correct. The Democratic Party presented what was wrong with both legal and political views, very detailed, and the ruling coalition defended it. I don't know what anyone else can expect from this debate. In doing so, we have proved that this is neither by law nor by the Constitution, and they have proved that they are not against Nate Mesarovic, but only... In fact, you didn't explain anything about it. So that's true. Serbian citizens should know this is not about Nata Mesarovic, nor does the DS defend NATO Mesarovic. We defend the principle, the law and the constitution, and in this sense they are clear, with all the locks of Mr Arsic, Mr Babic, who have really tried in a very thorough way to read members in a way that corresponds to the SNS. Unfortunately, gentlemen, the facts are inexorable, and now the advances will say—a team up by the facts, and the facts are next. An unauthorized authority comes to the Serbian Parliament and initiates the abandonment of Nate Mesarovic's post. I don't have the right expression. It is not a resolution, it is not a resignation, but that the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the image of Minister Selakovic comes to the Serbian Parliament. We say - okay, the Constitutional Court has declared this member unconstitutional, let's change the law. No, just because she's unconstitutional, even though we've proven that even logically, calendarly possible, you're still going your way and of course we're coming to what's the point. In a legal sense, we have shown in detail, not a dispute that you have both been detailed and precise, but in a completely wrong direction. But we're going back to that political part. Namely, respected citizens, the ruling majority and Minister Selakovic have not answered several questions. First, if this is not about Nata Mesarovic, then this application applies to a member of the law that needs to be changed, but it is not an individual legal norm, it is a general character, its choice is an individual case that the Constitutional Court has not dealt with, you have not answered that. So, then what's the legal reason for this decision? You didn't give us an answer. Then we asked you about a missing man in the Serbian Parliament, that's Vladimir Cvian. Where's Vladimir Cvian? Did he say this was a political decision supported by evidence? Did the man publicly announce the appointment of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court? Is this man running this procedure and if it's all true, and we know he is, how should the judges in this country feel in the future when Cvian or someone from his law firm comes through their door? We've asked you that a few times. There's no answer. It's like you don't know Cvivan. Don't be ashamed of him. He's still chairman of the board in front of your party. We don't think it should be. Then change it. So these are the answers you didn't give the gentlemen to, in fact, questions you didn't answer, but instead we heard about revenge and conspiracy theory. Let me tell you, DS put out what people in Serbia are saying today, as a concern I don't think that you, my fellow MPs, are thinking in those coordinates, I don't think that Arsic is giving himself to someone, who condemned the murderers Zoran Djindjic. So we don't think in the DS that Tomislav Nikolic isn't the president of Serbia, as you said and inspiredly talked about it, we don't think, nor did anyone say it here. But it's a show, and these are facts. The facts are that Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Republic of Serbia, said in an election campaign that a review of the verdict on the murder of Zoran Djindjic would be carried out. We asked that because it has to do with Judge Mesarovic, please. We didn't ask that because we think it was a conspiracy, but we asked to hear from you adversaries, that you're building on it, because it's the order and it's the law, if you're behind what you've said so far. As you fenced from his platform, so you sent him into political retirement, Mr. Arsic. That's how you should have fenced yourself from what you said then and what you don't think now. That's fair to the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, in this country, there seems to be a very, very, very bad way for me, a further violation of the judiciary and a violation of such fragile independence of the judiciary. That's our opinion. Mr Selakovic, you may prove us wrong, but you know in Serbia as proof that we are wrong in this case. It is proven by the fact that the judges, indeed independent, will act exclusively by law and that the people who are going to be in judicial functions will indeed be people of integrity and who will act according to the law. I'm afraid it's not over 300 judges who are members of the SNS. I'm afraid that when I warned you that when you return the judges linearly, you're returning those who have gravely sinned against both work and discipline, and morals. I'm afraid the messages you sent with amnesty won't return the reputation of this judiciary well. I'm afraid of that. I speak for the citizens of Serbia. So, don't everything the opposition says you're waiting for a knife and we represent citizens like you. Don't interpret everything DS says in that way, we've made arguments and facts. This has not been done properly and this is a political attack on Serbia's judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12435	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Selakovic, do you want a word? As a representative of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12436	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I would not talk about the level of debate because I have attended several debates that I can personally believe were not at the level at which both the subject and this House we are in. But I have to mention something that's been going on in this whole debate, so I'm going to even quote a few of the most impressive moments. One part of the parliamentary benches heard the following: a democratic state has been torn down, it is clear that the reasons are false, this is political rematch, this is a unprecedented scandal, this is a blow to independent institutions, the atmosphere of fear and media lynching, what the citizens are told by this and this government, the rage against Nate Mesarovic, one party stands on the defender of democracy, stands on the path of a coup, the introduction of a dictatorship, this is a brutal attack on institutions, this is legal violence, this is a country's lead to destruction, this is a total legal uncertainty, by voting this decision threatens to ring the National Assembly because the president of the Supreme Cassation Court is appointed, it is required to change the law and to be the result of the Constitutional court's decision and a lot more. Among other things, it was also said that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected on the basis of Article 144(1). The Constitution as if the Constitutional Law also said how to apply Article 144(1). I can't agree with that, and I can say it's a lie and it doesn't stand. It was also heard, among other things, that the provision of the Law on Judges, Article 102 paragraph 5, of a provision which did not enter into force at the time of the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. So it didn't start to apply, it went into effect, but it didn't start to apply. It is this moment that it gives me the right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that on the basis of all this that has been stated and that I can quote that I am not from Serbia, that I am not politically educated, that I have not followed what happened in Serbia in the previous years, that until tonight, Serbia was a state ruled by legal perfection, a state in which absolute rule of law was established, full order, a law in which the judiciary was independent, unbiased, effective. The impression that Serbia is probably one of the founders of the EU that will now be expelled from the same union because it behaves as a legal miracle happens here. It's an impression that could be gained based on everything out of the blue. Let's go back to that Judges Act whose supposed provision didn't begin to apply at the time when the Supreme Cassation Court President was elected. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if that were true then all that the High Council of the Judiciary was doing until 1 January 2010 would be absolutely nothing. And why is that? Let me prove it to you. This Article 102 is contained in Chapter 8 of the term "transitional and final provisions". Before Article 102, the Member of the 100th is also a member – the decision on the number of judges and jury judges shall be taken by the High Council of the Court in accordance with this law, within 30 days of the date of the election of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, with the prior consent of the minister responsible for the judiciary. Article 2 – the choice of judges under this law will be carried out by 1 December 2009, at the latest, with the exception of judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation who will be elected within 90 days of the date of the establishment of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. That means they've all been elected under a law that hasn't started to apply. And with what right can someone today say that there is legal violence in Serbia in a situation where such application of the law would be the most apparent legal violence in Serbia. So, based on a law that wasn't applicable, everything was done. It remains unclear from the discussion of a number of colleagues, does the Constitutional Court's decision have to be respected at all? I understand a situation where, for example, the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court feels that this decision should not be respected. Because if there was a speck, a piece of credibility that has to be owned by someone who is the president of the highest court in Serbia, after such a decision by the Constitutional Court, such a person would resign. And thus proved that he was even worthy of performing such a large and responsible function. But it didn't happen. It's obvious that someone's making decisions respects them, and someone doesn't respect them. This is about something rightly called a legal void and let's be honest to the end. No normal country like I said at first can dream that the president of the highest court in that country can be elected in a way contrary to the Constitution. Did that happen in Serbia? It happened. Let's go back to that legal violence and abuse of rights. Someone took a cardboard box and wrote a house on it – and said it was a house, and today it convinces us that it is. What exactly am I thinking about? To be extremely precise. You have a proposal sent by the High Council of the judiciary to the National Assembly, not only in the text of the motion for a decision but also in the explanation that all the whole procedure has been carried out on the basis of Article 102 of Title 5. The law on judges. Anyone who doesn't believe can get a certified copy and read it and see for himself. Here is a very important question – whether the state of Serbia is the only one in Europe, perhaps the only one in the world in which the country's highest court-led VCC is the person who came against the Constitution. Is there anyone who can say that's not true? If it is not true, I ask the question of where in 2009 in this Assembly was the opinion of the General Session of the VCS, who can give me an answer to that question, and I will examine my position well and say, perhaps I am wrong, perhaps indeed chosen on the basis of the Constitution. Maybe there really was some virtual Supreme Cassation Court who gave his opinion that no one had seen, but until someone convinced me, believe me, I can't believe it. Let's move on, the question of the ID of the VSS has been raised. Is it VSS who's supposed to propose this? That's where I said, the legal void limit. What's the limit? Whatever regulation you look at, he says, a decision on the termination of office, that is, by the National Assembly, and that is said by the Constitution, in Article 144, in the final position, in paragraph 4. So, he says, the National Assembly is making a decision to cease office and it is undeniable. Let's move on, systematically interpret the norm, what we're going to look at, see the Law on the National Assembly. The Law on the National Assembly in the area where it lists the electoral responsibilities of the National Assembly, which is Article 15 paragraph 2 of the third indent, states that the decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, but also the decision to terminate the office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, is made by the National Assembly, but still, does not give us the procedure to do so, and what will we look at then? Let's look at what in parliamentary law is called "the small Constitution of the Assembly", which is the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in Article 201 also states that the election to office is being held, in Article 202 states that a decision on termination of office is being made. Is this perfection legal? It's not. Is this the only way, because there's a clear thread that tells us that in the way in which the election decision is made to function, that in the same way the decision to terminate the function is made? Yes, the only one. Is this the hardest way to make this decision? Be assured it is. That's exactly why it's the legal safest. Now let's see something about how someone abuses their function, not just on November 27, 2009, when a single act comes to the committee that must come out of the same form with a side view that can be positive or negative, and it comes out quite differently. It's a question of someone's responsibility. I'm asking the next question, if anyone could talk about this important state matter, resort to this kind of abuse of law, and you're going to allow legal crime, what was he doing in some of the less important things? We're not opening a topic that's coming up on the agenda. What I want to thank some MPs who said that, today is no rematch, this is no punishment, but that someone should be held accountable for the disastrous collapse of the justice system in Serbia, should bear it. We have come to the paradox that today when we are a country where parliamentary democracy is in effect, our judiciary seems more miserable and unhappy than it was in a time of one-party one-mindedness. Who's responsible for this? It won't just show time, it'll show the results of those who did it. They are visible in every court, in every public prosecutor's office in Serbia, but let's go back to what's still important here. So, I said the chosen is the same legal path, the same procedure, as when choosing to function. What does that mean? Kola Arsic read Article 144's position several times. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This would mean, ladies and gentlemen, that tonight, in addition to the opinion of the Committee on Justice, the state administration and local self-government, as stated by fellow Petrovic, we should also have the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. This is where we come to the next question – why do we not have this question? Another legal violence at work. The National Assembly informed the Supreme Cassation Court, asked for opinions from the general session, and then the President of the Supreme Cassation Court called for a college, beware, not a general session, but a college, where they realized that they simply should not be advertised. In the same way, I am a witness, like my other fellow members of the Supreme Judicial Council, that we have sought to convene an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of the Court, that the intentional current president of the Supreme Casation Court has obstructed this, and then for the last six months, as a member of the High Council of the judiciary's office, it happens that in six months we do not have a single session of the High Judicial Council scheduled for the Rules of Procedure, so, five days before the maintenance, so that it can be prepared, all are scheduled for two, three or one day before maintenance. And then, when you send a request, and not with the names of three, but more members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, then the session is scheduled for you three weeks ahead and stalled in every way possible, following the Constitutional Court's decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question has also been raised – why does the provision of the law not change when the Constitutional Court has made its decision? What can change when the Constitutional Court has put out of force that provision of the law? He's put the whole thing out of action. What's there to change? We once had a law that had a longer name and was called the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Constitutional Court Decisions. It was clear there – when a decision is made that one is a member of a law, let the provision unconstitutional, that all the individual acts that have been taken under this provision become void. Today we have another Constitutional Court Act, which also owns a legal void here and doesn't say what's going on. This is an individual act. The Constitutional Court does not appreciate the constitutionality and legality of individual acts, but of general acts, absolutely. So this is the only way to go here. I repeat again, whoever of us here is present in the place where today is the person who is acting as President of the Supreme Cassation Court and by the position of the VSS, whoever of us is in this process could be conducted. We can think and talk about it, is this the right method? As soon as we suggested it, we think it's real. We've been thinking about this method you suggested, but simply, what's the problem? The problem is that there is no legal basis. Yeah, everywhere in the world in legal theory would be logical. If such a decision has been taken by the Constitutional Court, the Assembly should adopt a declarative act, which will ensure that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court ceases to act. What's our problem? We have nothing to call on to apply that method. That's why I said this is the hardest. Is this much easier? Yes, it is. We do not have a direct legal basis, as the direct legal basis under the constitution did not have the National Assembly, when it elected the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on 30 November 2009. One key question is raised here, if in Serbia the head of the judiciary cannot be elected under the constitution and law in the state of Serbia, if the decision of the Constitutional Court does not mean anything in Serbia, if in the state of Serbia someone can, after everything that has happened in the past three years, talk in this case about the violation of independence, impartiality, the efficiency of the judiciary, allow me, then it seems, there is no contact with reality in the Republic of Serbia. So I ask you to think carefully, that you have in mind that during the entire discussion, I only mentioned twice the name and name of the current President of the Supreme Cassation Court when I quoted others. Any alignment of this agenda with someone's character and part of it is out of the question, unless he's talking about the character and the part of the one that, by passing these sloppy laws in this house, created the possibility of creating a monster situation like this. This is just one of the evidence that our judicial organisational laws are ill-written. This is just one piece of evidence that we need to access a good, careful and thorough revision of these laws. This is one of the evidence that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reform of the judicial system is not implemented for the mandate of one authority to last so long, but to last for decades if possible. So I appeal to you, deprive yourself of your political prejudge, deprive yourself of criticism in those areas where the criticism existed, and the criticism existed where you take something and criticize it, and in no way will you say how it is necessary to do it. One who does not say so with full right may doubt that he does not want to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and does not mean anything to him. Let's get serious about some things. It's a sad country where someone can kill the Prime Minister in broad daylight. It would be even sadder if those who did it hadn't been discovered and sanctioned. Today's President of the Supreme Cassation Court did not judge herself. There were more judges. Is there anyone who's got a light on them? If it had been for someone, ladies and gentlemen, political rematchism, as it was in Serbia more than a decade ago, someone would have been replaced on July 28th or 29th, but it didn't occur to anyone, because here, I quote, political execution and political rematch there is no place. I've got some other members of the High Council sitting next to me. Who cares how it worked or how the Council works can ask each and every one of us. When did you invite the President of the Council to report on what was done, how many sessions were held? When was that report filed here? Once again, I'm going to draw attention to something that I think is extremely important. A sentence has been made here that independence of the judicial branch of government is being undermined to this extent that it will make it difficult and likely to delay or perhaps permanently end the negative path of Serbia's European integration. That's what one fellow MP said. I'm just surprised that when the party whose fellow MP belonged to was in power, the Serbian judiciary didn't get a single positive assessment from the European Commission? How is that possible? I'd say that, as I said earlier, we were already in the membership. It worked so well, it's amazing, it's a miracle. Are there good things that have been done in this reform? To be honest, there are, but they're so small compared to what's been done negatively, they've become absolutely invisible. I have to react to something else, because I am not only a member of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, but also a minister of justice and state administration, it is mentioned here that we want to bring to an end the courts of Kosovo Mitrovica. It's an absolute lie. Who suspended the court in Pristina, the court in Pec, the court in Prizren, Đakovica, Gjilan, Urosevec, Podujevo, Strpc, the court in the East, Vučitrn, Obilić? Who canceled those courts in 2009? Who cut them off? That's the previous question of every question. These courts were moved to central Serbia's cities. That's where it worked. Shame on him who did this to the Republic of Serbia, and today he gives himself the right to attack a government that is trying to fix what can be settled, which is trying to save what can be saved, that we want to end it. The judges have been returned to those courts. Please again, think carefully about all this, consider everything, measure everything well and vote in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says -- the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly, in the general session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the competent board of the National Assembly. If someone cares so much about the person who today is the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, here is the opportunity for that person to compete, to face his colleagues who did not go out in 2009, because they were gone, and to give an opinion on it. I urge you to support the decision to terminate the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-14-0.u12437	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda. We'll be working on Tuesday at 11.00 p.m. I remind you that the statehood session is scheduled for tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. Thank you very much.
