ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 117 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that an 84-member working quorum has been established, but 121 MPs are present and we do not have a voting quorum. I'm setting a break because of that for an hour and we're going to continue at 11:15. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, apart from the representatives of the promoter, Prof. Tomislav Jovanovic, Minister of Education, Science, Technological Development, I have also invited the sittings to attend Dr. Slobodan Stupar, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Željko Knezevic, Secretary and Vesna Lukić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and extremely for Monday, therefore, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. With the call of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session is contained. Before the sitting agenda is established pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, proposals for the completion of the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 October 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 33, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women who submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 74, against – no one, with abstention – voted – 78, out of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The DS parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, the abstentioned – one, voted – 31, out of the 163 MPs present. I find that most of the votes have accepted this proposal. National MP Ljuban Panic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Local Elections, submitted to the National Assembly by 43 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group on 20 September 2013, with a revision of the proposal for supplementing the agenda of 6 October 2013. Does MP Ljuban Panic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23951	Dear President-in-Office, respected colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, today we are re-proposing a bill on local elections to prevent something that has become the manner of this government, which is that in Serbia only what this government has not promised will happen, and the citizens have not voted for it. If we take the fact that several hundred thousand voted more in the pool, that local DS lists were given compared to local SNS lists, the only successful project of this government, which is so-called. the transfer, i.e. the identification of local coalitions to the republican government. The question arises, why and for whom is the constitutional right of citizens to local self-government and why is there an institute of local elections? The Democratic Party therefore proposes to vote for committees in the local environments by knowing exactly which one of your neighbours is in your election seat, i.e. your constituency is running to be your representative in the local assembly. A total of votes received by candidates by name and last name enters the party's fund on the basis of what the party received if it crosses the electoral threshold, the mandates are distributed and cannot be determined by the political party who will be a committee member in the local assembly. Also, we propose what the Constitution does not prevent, which is that citizens are elected directly to the elections so that they do not have the situation we had in Leskovac, Užica, Novi Sad, Belgrade, that people who have not received citizens enter the front row and do not know on whose behalf the cities are run, and those who have received it convincingly are being replaced. Today, when announcements about the austerity measures that Serbian citizens expect, I think the most important thing is to return the policy to the hands of the citizens. The only way for politics to become, to come out of this collective spirit that also has MPs' groups here, the only way to make politics a citizen service is for citizens to get a chance to decide individually about its representatives. I know that you will not accept this today and that even today will not be on the agenda, but keep in mind that those who have done so in this way, as the previous 12 months have done, ended the will of the citizens, will not go well in some of the next elections. I advocate that our committees in local parliaments create our local policy as neighbours, not tabloids like "Kurira". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23952	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 149, out of 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 43 MPs of the DS parliamentary group, on 20 September 2013, with a correction of the proposal to supplement the agenda of 6 October 2013. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23953	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is only five days away from your session and you're putting laws on the agenda for an emergency procedure just because the government has no ability to identify problems a week ahead. You continue with this, I would say, the clichés – the attitude towards the opposition, that no reform proposal proposed by the opposition can come on the agenda. The political situation in Serbia is today such as to cry for change, which is the essence of our proposals. The Democratic Party has proposed a set of election laws and wants to create a legal framework for changing the electoral system. Once again, we propose that the mayors of citizens in all 23 cities choose directly, so when they support a single list, one man, know who will lead the city and that municipality, not that today, what is the situation across Serbia, those who have not received half as many votes. There is a constitutional restriction that the presidents of the municipalities are chosen in such a way, but there is no constitutional restriction that we choose committees in a different way, so that citizens know exactly who they vote on. If that candidate on the list gets enough votes, they know who will represent them in the local assembly, not those who have no support for the citizens, that is the essence of our proposal. We want to protect the electoral will of citizens from transpositors, composers and to give politics to politicians who are running in elections and who are receiving support from citizens. Once again, these proposed laws have ties to political developments in the last 14 months across Serbia. The electoral will of citizens is something that must be respected, not something to play with. That is why we propose these laws, and that is why we want to talk about it in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23954	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 151 did not vote from a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session with a draft law on the capital, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 43 MPs of the Democratic Party on 20 September 2013, with a revision of the text and the arguments of the draft law of 27 September 2013, as well as by a revision of the draft agenda of 6 October 2013. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 158, of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs of Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković and Srdjan Mikovic, 2 April 2013. Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23955	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, there are two draft laws on amendments to the Law on Higher Education in the procedure before the National Assembly. One bill was proposed a few days ago by the government. The second bill was proposed more than six months ago and stands here in the process. On several occasions, one of the legislators, Professor Miodrag Stojkovic, tried to convince you to put it on the agenda and to pass such a law. If it had been done, we would not be in a situation today if one of the ministers in the workbook had registered only high school equipment, and that is Mr. Lazar Krstic. So, he didn't nostrify the diploma, and if you had passed a law that was still on April 2nd, not April 1st, it wasn't a joke, but on April 2nd, we would be in a situation where not only Mr. Lazar Krstic, but everyone else who needs it, to do the nostration properly, that certain higher education institutions are not looking for some enormous amount, but rather for it to be under the control of the state. Even by the misery that you did not accept something was pushed by Mr. Miljenko Dereta, and what we practically did operationally by Professor Stojkovic and I, and suggested in the procedure, means, not by the misery that was not done. That the government of the Republic of Serbia has done its part of the job and in this period of six months when we have drawn what needs to be done, has not been done. So if you won't accept our proposal that's good, then take it and do it. Today, Mr. Derret and I were sitting down and counting on how much work it is that we're a professor. Stojkovic and I did. That's three words a day. So if the ministry or government had written three words each day, it would have this bill, but obviously it's hard three words per day to make and in six months to have a law like this. I find it inadmissible to work this way. I suggest that every time we make a proposal, if you don't want to accept our proposal, in some reasonable time suggest, if we need to rewrite, we won't complain, because this bill is in favor of everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23956	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 138 of all 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and proposals for supplementing the agenda, and on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – no one with abstention – has voted – 56 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the agenda. 1st Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education; 2nd Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group that you have attached. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Professor Tomislav Jovanovic, minister of education, science and technological development want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Tomislav Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23957	Dear MPs, the Honorable Chairman-in-Office, is an extraordinary honor for me to address myself publicly for the first time and to suggest something that represents solving the life problem of 30,000 students and perhaps a larger number, which have been brought into a situation so far that they cannot continue schooling. They can't end it, and it's clear to everyone what situation students, universities are in, that we can make their demands come true. In fact, Serbia's student organisation in the KONUS community, with the Community of universities or rectors of all universities, and private and state-owned, sent a request to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development in early September this year to amend a legal act allowing students to enter the next school year with 48 points in the previous school year. We accepted it, sent it to the government, and the government sent a proposal to the Assembly a while ago, asking for an urgent solution to the problem. Since this high house has not adopted it, we have again referred to the request, which the government has adopted. Today at the request and wishes of the students, I ask you to adopt a proposal from the students and that the legal provision that was passed last year by amending the University Act, which defines that the student has the right to enter the next school year after winning 50 SBB points, to return it to 48 points. Just a reminder, the Law on Higher Education, which the Republic of Serbia entered into the community of countries with the Bologna Declaration and the Bologna Education Process, was adopted in September 2005. Since then, until last year, when an amendment to the law was made, regulations by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been brought about extenuating circumstances in which, with 60 points, students are allowed to enroll with 48 points. Last year, by amending the University Law, in agreement with the student association, it was agreed to regulate the number of points to be 50. However, students, I repeat again, before the start of the September deadline, registered and made a list of potentially 30 and a few thousand students, who cannot achieve or reach the 50-point threshold and asked you here to allow the amendment of the law that would allow fellow students throughout the Republic of Serbia to enter the next school year with 48 points won. It is a single request from students of Serbia and a single request from KONUS, the University of Serbia Community, of all the rectors we have attended and given them support. In addition to this basic law, at the very beginning of the school year, it has been registered that there are problems of law enforcement that need to create a legal assumption for the establishment of a higher education institution to achieve study programmes for the needs of national security while at the same time equating its status with higher education institutions or to achieve study programmes for the needs of police or military education. We were forced to provide institutions dealing with police and military higher education to amend individual members of the law, i.e. only Article 73. The law on higher education. Your information is in progress, or a public debate on amendments to the Law on Higher Education has been concluded. The public debate was due to end by September 1st this year. At the request of KONUS, meaning the Community of the University of the Republic of Serbia, both private and state and student associations, the public debate was extended until October 1st. The public debate has just concluded the single rules of law, a bill adopted at KONUS and student associations, of course with the ministry, will be forwarded to the government of the Republic of Serbia. On this occasion, I ask you only to make these two changes and ensure the smooth start of the school year, the smooth enrollment of students who started studies that have changed studies and study rules, starting in 2005, seven years, government decisions, and then by amending the Law to this day. I'm asking you again to do us a favor and get the students' army to continue their education in terms of how possible. Of course, I'm convinced we'll get a chance to cross that famous threshold, not 50 points, but also a famous 60-point threshold. I think with the joint efforts of universities, university teachers and students, and for that there is a good will, we can also achieve these famous 60 points. Now famous, and realistically expected and possible. It is possible that fellow MPs and university professors, if we work together to share responsibility, rights and obligations. Together we university teachers and students can realize that students are studying, that during the course of the studies they acquire knowledge and these skills are translated into these famous 60 points. I expect your support and skills from students, on behalf of all MPs of Serbia's university education system. Once again, I ask you to adopt these requirements and adopt a proposal for an urgent amendment to these legislative regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23958	Thank you, Minister. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file a statement with the order of MPs. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23959	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, exactly one year ago our parliamentary group has been all day convincing the then Minister of Education, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, to think the way you've been thinking. Due to the fact that the Bologna Declaration did not live equally in all our universities, that there is no comprehensive analysis or valid database and that there is no valid database in the education sector at the Ministry of Education for only a few employees, if I am not mistaken six or seven, and that there is an example in Croatia around 50, that there is no valid database before the application of the Bologna Declaration, because then the autonomy of the university was interpreted in one wrong way and because of the fact that we did not provide students with all the information provided by the Bologna Declaration, we felt that in the next few years, until we have complete data that all the universities are in the right way without misreading, without the abuse of the powers given to them by the Bologna Declaration, without their misreadment, that they have applied the Bologna Declaration, only then we can ask students to do what students at European universities and to increase the thresholds for the European system of transmission. Unfortunately, Mr. Zarko Obradovic did not seem to have any hearing about it. In the end, we were even convinced that it was some agreement within the government to deliberately reduce the number of students that would be financed from the budget to save the state. After an exhaustive and reasoned debate, another reason to reject this attitude by our parliamentary group was gone. Secondly, since the application of Bologna since 2005, we almost every autumn have protested students. That's right this year. We last year, without inviting students to protest, to send you requests and sign petitions, we still knew what was going to happen and what was going to happen. Because we keep in touch with students and with the university and with student associations and organizations, and we know what their life problems are. Anyone who wants a burden of responsibility to transfer to another professor who does not apply Bologna, the burden of responsibility is transferred to students and they say – they have no working habits, they have not learned to learn systematically, there are many gaps in preschool, primary, secondary education, and then they will pay students when they come to college and it is a resonation, for example, of the Veterinary College where the passing from the third year to the fourth year is only about 5%. However, if we look at some other colleges, such as the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade, which in an extraordinary way, it seems to us, applied the Bologna Declaration, immediately divided the exams into two-monthly, modernized, shortened the material, adapted them to November's needs, began working with students in smaller groups. Because we pointed out last year that teachers at European universities work in groups of seven to ten students. We're dealing with so many students, that the quality is absolutely lost, that it doesn't have its own effect that it should have. The price of who pays? They pay for the students. This is especially happening in private schools, where the primary interest of the university is, of course, in addition to education and education, to enroll as many students as possible, to get as many students financed by the university as possible, so that employees have something to live on. But where is the basic purpose and purpose of the existence of universities and universities? We've always pointed that out. A professor and a university can't be at the center of an education system. In the center of the education system, he has to be a student, and in higher education, a student and all to be subordinated to students. I think that, without any pretense of adding to students' demands, because of the fact that we don't have a professor's database today, where they teach, what they teach, professional qualifications, etc., that we miss many databases, that the estimates of how much the Bologna girlship applies to us, are extremely casual, of those who think it's excellently applied, which is certainly the fact in some colleges, let's say at the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, but it's also the fact that in many universities it's not applied. It seems to us that a good example of the University of Novi Sad has taken place immediately after the signing of the Bologna Declaration into the necessary changes and reforms and the results of this are visible if the number of students passing through and the average rating and the average time of study, etc., and those colleges that have applied the Bologna Declaration have achieved exactly the effects that we wanted to have with the Bologna Declaration. What I think is still an impression in the public, but there are people who do not understand the meaning of the Bologna process of education at all, and in the beginning they have because of the lack of information resistance to it, intercessing and glorifying the old education system with an explanation that the Bologna Declaration is something that has imposed Europe on us. I think that because of the public it should be said that this is not true, that we have voluntarily entered into the process of signing and applying the Bologna Declaration and this way of the education system, that almost 50 countries of Europe have signed the Bologna Declaration and that it is even applied in Russia. Therefore, it is not an EU project, regardless of what we political parties have been pushing for the application of European values in the beginning of their political activities, considering them to be the highest values of the civilized world, and it is good that the Bologna girlry had this beyond European character. What do we need to do because 50 points will apply for the next school year, or 2013, in 2014. What are we supposed to do in these years? In this year we need to do a lot of things that we haven't done in previous years in terms of and valid statistics and getting a valid database and a deeper and more comprehensive analysis, and only then, when we realize that they did to the university what they did to them, I think that the scientific-teacher did it, professionally, to raise the student threshold to a larger number of points. That's why you're up for a big job in the next year. It's a shame the previous minister with his team didn't think the way we thought. Believe me, if you don't do what needs to be done in this respect, we'll welcome the next fall with the new 30,000 students' signatures with new requirements and again we'll probably change the law in that sense that 48 points will apply to school 2014 and 2015. This is our assessment, since we have very serious access to all these problems that burden students, because let's not forget that somewhere around 80,000 students go to primary school every year, and after secondary education almost 55,000 of them are enrolled in college, which is, since that first year is already the first round of selection, where usually almost half of them don't enroll in the second year, after that, the percentage is significantly higher. This means that we have great potential and great interest in young people to gain a higher education. Secondly, what the ministry had to do in the field with other ministries is to classify all new forms, new occupations and education that involves the Bologna girlation, in agreement with the National Employment Service, that in agreement with the Chamber of Commerce, it affects legal persons to introduce these new interests in their systems, because we have paradoxical situations to complete vocational studies, to complete mastership, and that when someone with such education goes to the National Employment Service, they simply cannot record it because of the lack of that form of classification. As a result, despite being an opposition parliamentary group, we approached every problem very correctly, very analytically. Everything that was good we supported, and everything that leads in some opposite direction, we criticized it, but we also made suggestions for solutions. What we consider to be one of the greatest benefits of the Bologna Declaration is the addition of a diploma, an official document which not only lists exams, points and assessments, the names of professors, outside of teaching activities, but also all other activities of students who can be one great si-vi, excellent recommendations for future employment, for future profession, because if the employer looks at the student who had a wide range of interests, a wide range of areas of interest to him, which has a multidisciplinary approach not only to rough learning, or as people say drumming, but to acquire and education at one higher and wider level beyond what the university foresees, that the employer will certainly employ someone like that one rather than someone who only deals with what is asked of him and who does not have the necessary breadth to carry out all kinds of jobs. We also criticised the reduction in the number of test deadlines. That explanation that teachers will have more time to devote themselves to scientific work with a reduction in the number of test deadlines, we said that it does not drink water immediately, it falls into the water. For what? Due to the simple fact that the professor spends the least time on passing exams, that the exam is often organised afternoons and evenings and Saturdays and Sundays and that nothing scientific and teaching process does so. That's why we think it's a good thing to have that sixth test period back. I think that responsibility for all of this that we're talking about isn't just at the Ministry of Education, so now that you're sitting as a representative of the government, that everything that our criticism is directed to both the previous minister and the ministry, and I think that the sleeves should both shut up high school institutions and high school institutions and education systems institutions in primary education, professors etc. In conversation with both students and teachers, we come 1001 times to the same conclusion that they are all people. Professors who do not want to think the way they are asked to do so in the Bologna Declaration, they simply transfer all responsibility to students, and even if they apply the Bologna Declaration, they apply it in a way that seems to us more to us to have the abuse of what the Bologna Declaration offers than its true and well-intentioned applications. As a result, the passing of exams among many professors, two professors hand over one and the same subject, with one professor is 80 percent, with the other 5%. So it can't be up to students or science material, but the only responsibility can be on the professor. That's why we don't look at this problem from a black and white view, but only analytically, and it seems to us, sober heads. That's why we think that in the next year your ministry is waiting for a big job and, if you finish that job, we won't be in this situation for the next year, if you don't finish the job, unfortunately, Minister, we'll have a repeat of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23960	Thank you. National MP Milorad Mijatovic, just sign in one more time, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, the Secretary of State, the Assistants, it is my great pleasure that we can discuss this law today. True, what we're discussing today, it's something that's been extorted, extorted to meet again the population of students, in other words, to reduce the number of entry points in the coming year, and already most of the November rule -- the more exams. Now we're going from five to six, you can give 22 exams, we won't get quality again. What I want to say is, is it -- is the Bologna Process that we are applying in Serbia revived? I can say it is. I'm a professor myself, I teach students, and I know very well how we started in 2005, 2006 and where we are now, in 2013. In the first encounter, we needed to increase study efficiency. Of course, the reduction of the criteria began, and that fact itself meant that suddenly we had great transitions. At the same time, by applying the Bologna Process, the number of higher education institutions has increased sharply. In addition to the state, we have received a very large number of private universities, or universities. There began an inequality in quality and a struggle for each student. I know knowledge is wealth, but knowledge is not equal to money. It seems that we realized that knowledge is equal to money, so then individuals by starting colleges, different departments in all possible places realized that they could make very big money. Some of them actually did it and got it. I don't want to say this way that only private colleges are the cause of all this. In fact, state colleges, when they found themselves in the fight for survival on the market, the state colleges themselves began to rapidly reduce their criteria, grades, and we got a major hyperinflation of diplomas, diplomas that had no useful value. These diplomas were used, unfortunately, along with a combination of political power, for individuals to reach significant places in the country, to manage the state, and they had no ability and no abilities. It's impossible for everyone to be the best. In one generation you can't have, in one class or in one group of 50 students, that you have 25 tens. Not all of them are that kind of abilities. What we have quality in our country, we have to support it, and even at the cost of raising the threshold and getting to those 60 points, and for those quality students to have scholarships, the ability to stay where they can show their qualities. Those who cannot, unfortunately, will not get significant social places in the state, in the state hierarchy, and especially in private. You know, diplomas don't really appreciate it. I've been in America for a long time. I've seen that you can get a job with them if you know how to work without a degree. You can also have a degree, and if you don't know, you'll be fired immediately. And in one America, they like to have a combination of diplomas, but also the skills that that diploma verifies, that this student has earned as much as he should have. If we realize that higher education is not just money and we realize that we have to have a situation behind these diplomas of knowledge, then we will get to quality personnel very quickly and very easily. Unfortunately, we've made an inflation of people who have various managements and skills that aren't usable, and when we're looking for informers, when we're looking for engineers, when we're looking for people who know the job, we can't find people like that. Why? Because these colleges, someone also mentioned the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and the FON, have to look for knowledge, because you can't let someone build roads or bridges without actually roasting well at the university knowledge, and later, through the profession, through experience, they came up with some envious heights. I can tell you, we can bring foreign investors as much as we want, open chip factories, I'm not sure we'll find engineers who can track it all down. Why? Because social orientation was – come to the diploma, and then we'll manage easily, we'll hire somewhere along the party lines, you'll get a positive position. All that good you're going to drive her away, they're going to go abroad, and we're going to stay where we are, and we care about coming into the same situation, that we don't have quality personnel. There's something else that's very interesting. Hyperinflation, apart from the master's degree, the doctor's dissertation, is simply amazing how many science doctors we have, people who are being given titles, and they have no serious scientific work behind them, and they have not published anything abroad, nor have they found themselves in a situation where their work is shown in any reference magazine that exists in the world, which is perfectly normal if you're dealing with science. There's something else, and it's buying various titles, buying some academys. I must admit, when I heard there were some colleges, when I published a scientific paper in America, I received an invitation letter for the New York Academy of Sciences to be a member. It was supposed to be paid, it was in the 1990s, when it was big, 60 bucks, I didn't pay because I was embarrassed to become a member of the New York Academy of Science with one published scientific paper. You now have academics who have behind them, and I don't know what, the more bombing the title, the higher the price. When I talk about all this, I just want to say one thing. I expect that in the next year, we will look closely at how we go to higher education, how many colleges we have, and also, when we look at it, to see what needs to be changed in higher education, whether it will be a comprehensive change of the Law on Higher Education, for the simple reason to get adequate quality. Not everyone in this country has to have college degrees, but the ones we have, they must have knowledge, quality, competence, expertise. In that sense, I hope that the new team of the new education minister will know how to do, to propose a comprehensive reform that has to go, not just from college, from primary school, from high school, not all of these things that have happened to us. You don't have much change in education, you can't have them. There's no such thing as great modernity. There's a rise in quality, an organization of systems that has to work, and then you'll have a quality behind it. If we knew in poor times, after World War II, that we had good and quality personnel, who were willing to build this country, I guess now, in 2013, when we're not so poor, because we don't always need money for something. Sometimes all it takes is knowledge, expertise, competence and people to sit down and learn, because there's no big, magical way to learn anything. No computer will put things in your head if you don't sit down yourself, don't work and show what you need to do. In that sense, the SDPS will only propose these changes as something that has been forced to overcome this situation. We expect from you a long-term solution to these problems, because the area of education, as a significant area in this country, is the easiest area that can be transformed, which is not so submerged in its criteria. So, with a little effort, a little will and perhaps less money, we'll be able to get quality personnel. Of course, there are areas where they need a lot of money, modern equipment, but such people in this country don't need too much. With much less money and investment in science, by linking to the economy, I think we can get quality personnel. It's not clear to me, when students go to summer practice, you invent companies where you send them. Basically, they go to a friend, so they formally bring it in, and we formally accept it. When we get into a situation where serious companies in the senior year of college come to colleges, they're looking for the highest-quality people and you're the highest-quality people tomorrow, when they finish colleges and high schools, they get a job right away, to learn and to work. It's normal in the world. Looks like it's just not normal in Serbia. In that sense, we will give you full support and the SDPS will give support to these amendments and amendments to the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23962	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23963	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the PUPS believes that this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education is a continuation of the regulation of education areas, but in one only technical way, only in the work of these four members, which is not a permanent solution. I hope that in some future period and this law will be fully regulated and we have one normal law on higher education. We recently passed a set of education laws. After the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which has been in use for several years and the Law on Higher Education, which has been more detailed for many years, we have adopted the Law on Higher Education in Serbia, the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on adult education, and thus rounded up a process in education. With these amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, we edit this area in more detail and meet the needs of students in this difficult economic crisis for all, especially for students. Therefore, the PUPS in the voting day will support this bill and vote in favour of its adoption. The law on higher education, as the minister stressed, was adopted in 2005, following our country's accession to the Bologna process, as a process for creating a European space for higher education. I wouldn't say anything special about the Bologna process, because my predecessors were already talking about it, and they'll probably keep talking, but I'd like to give you one piece of information about high school hyperproduction. The other day in the paper was that we used to have 1,000 PhDs on the annual level, and now we have 400% higher and we have 4,000 PhDs at year level, which is certainly not good. There have been several changes and additions to this law, which was 2007, 2008, 2010, and the last change was in 2012, so that this year too, the need for its changes and additions, which we will regulate today, has been imposed. But, as the minister said, the debate on the Law on Higher Education has already been concluded, and I hope that in some future period this law will resolve this segment in one comprehensive way. On this occasion, I will briefly refer to individual members and the provisions of these amendments and the addition of the Education Act. I'm saying that this is partly just a technical issue, without some fundamental question, because Article 40 of the Regulation states that, in addition to achieving a study programme for the needs of police or military education, a study programme for the needs of national security and in one way and this segment is included and equalised in status with institutions from higher education, study programmes for the needs of police and military education. It's probably like a temporary solution, and I believe that in the next law, which will be comprehensive, it will be fully resolved. In Article 73, a new position is added that regulates only teachers and allows certain lecturers, i.e. teachers, to be involved in this study programme, which will be regulated, and which will be established. Article 3 The draft law amends the provision of the previous law by counting the deadlines under examination in school 2013/2014. The year is six, instead of now scheduled five. We came up with a counter-proposal last year. This position of the promoter is a little vague, as the same proposings proposed a year ago suggested that the number of test deadlines be six. It's unclear what they've handled with these changes in their attitudes in just a year, because when we decide something or when we suggest something, we have to go a little bit more into the topic. These same promoters who proposed one thing last year, now deny it and suggest a whole other thing. This is just one technical issue and it is not at all disputed to allow students more regular test deadlines to protect students' interests and reduce the effects of the economic crisis. So far, there have also been more test deadlines than the law has foreseen, but in this way it allows students to have more regular exams without payment fees. As far as I know, not to some colleges, we have 11 exam deadlines per year and thus allows students to regularly give exams and meet the requirements for enrolment next year. Article 4 The bill, in order to protect students' interests and reduce the effects of the economic crisis, due to a certain financial burden based on fees, is proposed to cut points from 50 to 48 points in the next school year. These two members, the increase in exams and the reduction in points, are a little contradictory, as Article 3 allows us to increase the number of exams, and Article 4 reduces the effects. I guess it makes sense that by improving work, it doesn't reduce the effect that we're doing here right now. So we increase the conditions, increase the number of exams, and reduce the number of points, or test deadlines. If all of this is in the interest of education in Serbia, in the interest of students, then students should be allowed to finish their studies regularly in this situation and in this situation, without any major market. The PUPS parliamentary group, following this debate and debate in particular and the possible improvement of the law through amendments, will support this law in the voting day and will vote for the adoption of this law. The message from the minister is that the new law that has been made is comprehensive and a little longer, not a year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23964	Thank you. Mr. Korach, you've been reported. Do you want another word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dr. Zarko Koraq. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23965	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable Members of Parliament, I will leave it to my fellow Members of the Parliament to say something about how this point appeared here on the agenda. So, just a few days ago, it was refused to show up, and then it showed up. You will also see one interesting fact, that all of this has already been proposed in the light of an amendment submitted by our parliamentary group, so it has been rejected. So the question is, how is education policy being conducted in this country? I don't mean specifically at this point on the minister, who just became it, but I mean in general. But I'm going to say something about this proposal. First of all, this is where a new higher school is proposed. The truth should be told that this school already exists practically, that it is located in the BIA building, that it is quite unclear what the purpose of establishing such an institution is. I want to warn you that it's not a private institution, it's a state-owned institution, so I guess the logic is that those who finish that higher school will work in the BIA or military security. I could ask an interesting question – when they fill out the quota that is needed without saying what is normally considered a state secret, the number of BIA employees, but that number is several thousand and is not unlimited, then the question is where will they look for a job? Will they go abroad, too, and work in some foreign intelligence service, military or civilian, which is completely absurd? We have a security school. The logic here is that not everyone should have colleges. You should, ladies and gentlemen, try to ensure that people always have more education, not less education. There's a safety school and there's something that could've opened up on it. The logic here is that it probably doesn't take those four years of education, and what is the core of one intelligence service, is primarily analytical and should be trained there and the most different kinds of education, which is said in one illiterate word – education profiles. Despite my best wishes to say that I don't see why these technicians, I don't know what that means, those who set up listening devices, follow, photograph, open mail, read emails, because we have the most modern equipment, have to have a higher school. Well, they don't have to have a higher school to do that. In order to do that, an unnecessary school is necessary. You can do that with another school, and you need to be more ambitious to finish colleges. In the world, people who do this work have both legal and economic, and especially languages when they work with strangers. Once again, I do not see the logic of establishing an institution like this, especially since it already exists and already knows who works here and society has already gathered, etc. I don't mean to be mean, it's not part of my personality, but this was done the way we didn't have after the war. So UDBA got her high school. I don't know if they used to have courses, what was it called, but somehow this doesn't look like a modern time. He's got college, he's got colleges, and the techs and the guys who work, let him work high school. Now let me go to what this proposal is here. This proposal here, which is what was once called a palatable measure or a measure to prevent some kind of fire, gives us the essence of the problem in our higher education. Right away, our parliamentary group will vote for these changes, so there will be no ban. We believe that students should be relieved and allowed to study with a smaller number of points and with a slightly higher number of test deadlines. It is not a matter of demagogy or accepting that our students are worse than in the world, but of the fact that our students are studying under what conditions. When they complain and ask for this, it is not correct to accuse these young people that they want to get into college and get diplomas and take exams, as I would say, in some other way than in the world. There is, but that doesn't apply to most students. Most of them are young people who really want to get educated and have good, modern, quality education. So don't judge the worst students. You judge most of them. Most people want to get an education. We have the following problems here. I'll just name a few. First, we have access to education. If you're not on the budget, our education if you self-financed, scholarships become enormous for our conditions. Parents can't pay for that. Most of the state colleges are located in large cities. That's where the accommodation prices are high, the food's expensive. We get the first time since 1945 a prominent social dimension of education. Our elite, financially, economically, reproduces itself. Dear People's MPs, this is the biggest disaster that can happen to a country, because intelligence is not distributed by property and talent and parents' abilities, but in one natural way. In other words, when parents can't pay for schooling or pay for schooling in a big city, especially for some, say, unique forms of study, you don't have any private colleges, private schools, but there are unique professions that are in very few places, let's say at the Faculty of Philosophy, where I've worked for decades, archaeology. You don't have a private school for archaeology. You have several places in Serbia where you can study it. My parents can't pay for it. It's something that's deeply worrying. The state does not lead one policy of continued scholarship and financial assistance to young, talented people in order to complete their studies. In the long run, Serbia will have a terrible revenge, for those whose parents have money to pay for it today to study. Secondly, when we talk about meeting the requirements of Bologna, now everyone will say they are now removing the criteria of Bologna students and now our students turn out to be unable to study the way they study in Europe. Let's put aside whether Bologna fills all the countries quite consistently, until the end. Right away, there are variations in Europe of what has been accepted by Bologna and what is not. It is still not entirely uniform to apply Bologna principles in every country. Some countries do not give and want to have their specifics in the higher education system, but the fact that we are talking about meeting the requirements of Bologna is that we have not previously responded to what only university teachers and visa students themselves have done. Do you, for example? We have what are the requirements of Bologna continuous working with students, permanent grading throughout the school year? Are students being monitored? Bologna seeks shorter items, according to the rule of one-semester etc. Are the textbooks adjusted? I'll give you an example. That's what we're looking for. Does the Bologna process include student evaluation? In my university for years, anonymous students have been grading their professor. I know what grades I've been getting. I can tell you that it seems to me that they were very accurate. I don't see why students can't judge their professor exactly. They're great at seeing him. It's mentioned when there's a choice, a promotion, but that doesn't matter at all. That's not true. In the world, in America, no professor will be extended to the contract and the most prestigious university if the students negatively evaluate it. You're very often under the impression that students' opinion of the teaching, not the scientific, work of that professor doesn't matter. We've been handed over to generations of students by people who aren't at all up for teaching. They humiliate, insult students. Don't give me the examples I hear from students from various higher education institutions in Serbia. When I talk about corruption at the university, it's not just about the university. Here, let me give you an example. I'm not very familiar. What about that famous "Afer Index"? In one place corruption was found at a higher school institution. That's what he's pulling. I don't know where it stands in the legal sense. But if students claim, and polls and research show that students claim to have corruption, to pay for exams, what did the state do to deal with it? If we have corruption in high school institutions, I hope there's not much, I sincerely hope and I do, but as much as there is, have we dealt with it? Then when something is found that ad anfinitum is delayed by the trial, they are left out of the human trial, at least one of those who has, according to what is stated, a high state function. How do you expect students to have respect for this process and expect it to fully meet those criteria that the state itself does not meet in relation to higher education? What kind of scientific papers and, above all, textbooks are written by teachers? Are they available? Is the class well organized? Do teachers even teach? What's your class look like? Why do they keep on teaching the people chosen, but it turns out they're not for pedagogical work? Every student to come to you here, and an excellent student, find a student with the highest average, so they'll tell you this. Then we ask students to meet these criteria, and at the same time we as a society, universities and states have not met students what they cannot, but expect to do so by appropriate institutions dealing with higher education. That's how we spin in a vicious circle. A very bad message is being sent. I recently looked at the assessment of the application of the Bologna average in Serbia. One comparative analysis was made. The bologna was signed in 1999. It was signed by 28-29 ministers of Europe. Since 2005, we have started to apply it, at first only partially, today seriously. It is said – the higher education system in Serbia is a mess. The word chaos has been avoided, but it has been said that there are huge problems, etc. Are we gonna start these problems to solve or not? Are we going to get convincing data from those who deal with accreditation, given the enormous political and other pressures to accredit each institution that someone is setting up? You have one example today. That's not the best example, but that high school. I asked the question – exactly what does it serve? Those who advocate it will say – it is invaluablely important that BIA officials and military security have a higher school. To tell you the truth, I didn't get it right. I think if they want to be educated one more time, they should go to college. I hope everyone has a high school. So what's the logic of starting different colleges? What is the logic of establishing various private universities, some already have more than 10,000 students? Are they an alternative to the state? Are they an appropriate alternative? Who goes to those colleges? To finish, the latest census showed that the number of people in Serbia with higher and higher education than last year's census, that's 10 years apart, we had this sad percentage, to say roughly five or six people with higher education in Serbia, is now doubled. So, for the past 10 years, Serbia has gained twice as much. It's an encouraging data and an encouraging fact. I can't ask questions now who needs a diploma, who doesn't need a diploma, it's a famous debate that can be conducted very long with very many arguments and counterarguments. We, like most countries, have been left with, in some ways, to regulate, the educational market that students register. Politics is very sensitive here, you say -- you need Serbia three archaeologists a year, and you need a thousand lawyers or 10,000 lawyers, five archaeologists, that's very, I don't know by what criteria, but when the state determines quotas, but the student who enrolls, one thing is sure we finally have to talk about it, we doubled the number of people, excellent, good for the country, high and higher education, what does the process of our higher education look like? I miss that, especially the different shifts of ministers incessantly. Otherwise, the minister is not only involved in higher education, he also deals with all other levels of education that he has from preschool. I'm very much missing a country's commitment to higher education, because believe me, why should I quote to you what everyone will tell you, it's not a rich country if it has material resources. Do you want me to quote Zoran Djindjic, then Angola would be the most developed country in the world. Angola also has oil, not underestimating that country at all. There's oil, there's diamonds, there's everything, and there's Switzerland that doesn't have any of it, so it's one of the most developed countries. In education, in overall education, not only in higher education in graduation, education in the population is the future of a country. Now when it comes to investment so much that someone will finally realize that investing in education is the most important investment in Serbia, because these educated people will raise this country. Now the question is now, I end up really, I need some chips factories to open up, I need information technologies to come in here, and someone has asked the question -- whether Serbia has at all experts who can deal with it, and that's the saddest question that can be asked within a country, whether we have enough experts or whether we should bring our experts from abroad, to give them huge wages so that they come here anyway. This can be done, but it would be necessary for Serbia itself to have enough of such experts. Without investing in education, this country is doomed to, as I would say, one failure in this game in the world between countries developed and undeveloped. You know, if a Karadjorje when he was building the first Serbian state, the uprising when he knew at the beginning of the XIX century that he had to bring the most educated man to lead the education, to borrow from a foreign country, from Austria, Dositej Obradovic, who was undoubtedly a very educated man. If one Karadjordje knew that without the most educated man in education he could not make a state, Karadjordju was clear and he called one Dositej Obradovic who was coming, the first Serbian minister of education who really serves our honor in modern history the first minister of education, then we would have to be at least at that level, not to say we are better than those rebels, that without raising the level of education of people, and especially in higher education, that is the most important part of education, that is the crown, the elite of that education, we will not be able to go far as the state. When you look at the number of highly educated people, I will immediately tell you two countries that have the highest number of highly educated people, perhaps you are interested, are Israel and Canada. You will see that these are countries that are very advanced in science, in technology, in economic development precisely because they have people who can carry it. We want to develop Serbia, to have investments, and we don't have people who can carry it all or on a small number of people, it should all rest. So, if this was one request to take care of the quality of higher education, not to like this discount of "Bologne" students a little, it's a picture of us taking care of education, not those students. They're not our students, they're neither dumber or more incompetent than other students, on the contrary. See how good successes and results are achieved when they go abroad, we simply didn't create a system materially, organisationally, following it, analyzing it, constantly changing it, that would help these students achieve better results on exams. One who does not eat, who has a teacher who does not care about it, who cannot live properly and cannot reach points that require "Bolonja", cannot and can not ask him. Now, what kind of consequences that will have for education, we can all think about that. I am sorry that now that semi-revolutionary measures are being proposed as to how Serbia needs to change suddenly, to make everything better, please, I support, somehow high education has completely fallen out. We've even heard here, I've already talked about it, I don't, of course, go into political stories, that you can't find a building minister, because there's no one here. That's rude, offensive. At the Belgrade Faculty of Civil Engineering and other building schools there are experts, it's a whole other topic you choose and why you choose it, I don't get involved in it. So let's not underestimate ourselves, deal with this higher education, invest in this higher education. What you're seeing here today is not the students' fault, it's the pictures of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23966	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23967	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, is slowly becoming a tradition at the beginning of each autumn session of the Assembly that the minister in charge of science education is proposing amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, so we will probably be able to declare these days these days as well to meet science in the National Assembly. It has been said here several times by some colleagues that these changes and additions have been extorted at the request of 30,000 students, or that they have signed the petition. That sentence is very steaming ears because this is not a request that was extorted by students, but it is being extorted because colleges do not do their job properly and have not done it all these years. What do frequent changes and additions to this law say? First of all, they say that no serious and comprehensive analysis of the reform of higher education has been done and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of which you are headed has recently said in a simple statement that it does not know what it is doing, precisely because of a lack of serious analysis. It has been 10 years since Serbia signed the Bologna Declaration and some seven years since the application of the Bologna principles began. In 2005, a reform law on higher education was adopted. It began to apply in 2006 and to the question of how far it came with the reform of higher education is very difficult to give a precise answer, especially because the situation differs from university to university, so the situation differs from department to department, and certainly from professor to professor. Sometimes I get the impression that we still have a live debate about whether high education in Serbia should have been reformed at all, so students tell you that they have teachers who say – I do not accept "Bolonja", I do not want to work on "Bolonja" etc. Of course, there are a number of responsible professors who have and how they realized in time that reform is necessary and they are working hard on it, or they are applying a law that has been in force since 2005. That's where I resent the Ministry, we held this discussion last year when Mr. Obradovic was a minister. It is absolutely to resent the Ministry, so if you want the High Education Council and all the institutions involved in the higher education process, which is no longer supervised, not to use the ugly word - control, because colleges have very developed autonomy, so they don't tolerate the words control and supervision, but then to say that there is no support for the colleges, that in the best possible way of applying the law and in all segments, it can also be resented by the Ministry of Education. Whether we want to or not, the Ministry of Education is responsible for the state of the university, if it weren't for you today, you wouldn't be here defending this Law on Higher Education. When former Minister Zarko Obradovic explained his changes and additions last September, he was faced with very similar issues by nearly all MPs, and he then promised that the ministry would carry out an analysis or supervision of higher education institutions and that it would determine whether the changes needed to achieve quality knowledge or not were actually made in colleges. I'm a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, although you remember you were in the first session a month ago, not ours, but yours, where you attended, so you brought up a whole series of problems that exist in higher education. You also mentioned that you asked for colleges and vocational schools, we kind of forget them here, but that's understood, that you asked all the colleges to provide you with information where all their professors teach, so you're going to tell us this time whether or not the colleges have provided you with such data. If there was a lot, I'd use the ugly word "storage," but that really looks like it. You even said you had a problem finding out at some colleges who the managing authorities were at all. Have you been able to find out in this month? It's a shocking fact that you as a minister tell committee members and MPs that for some colleges you can't determine who the managing authorities are, that I don't say teaching-science bigger at that higher education facility. He also asked the Minister at the time, and we believe that you will do so, because it was obviously not done, he asked, or that he would ask the Educational Council to declare whether they had reformed all the study programmes, or plans and programmes, and whether a re-evaluation of student burden had been carried out. Because one of these changes, which happens every year, is just conditioned that the burden of our students is much higher than the burden of students in other European countries, so as soon as you come with this bill. In the past year, the ministry has done nothing to obtain this information and simply instruct, to make a request, to be gentle, to colleges and high schools to take care of what they do and to review programs, burdens, literature, or the amount of literature for certain items, etc. Now I'm going to say a few words specifically about these proposed changes and I'm going to start with Article 4. Otherwise, this is a very short bill, and there are only five members. But as you can see so far, and you'll see, in future discussions, it's causing great controversy in this home. So Article 4 changes the current Article 7 and I think it was a member of 88 of that first and basic law that has already suffered four or five amendments. It is an amendment to the necessary number of EPS points for the student to enter the next school year, preferably staying on the budget or entering the budget. Of course, we all know that not every student who has 48 points, so enrolls in the next school year, can unfortunately be on the burden of the budget because there's a quota at all colleges, so if they can get into that quota, I think it's about 20% or it's different from college now. So it's not an immediate guarantee that they'll go in and finance from the budget. Instead of the current 50 points, we cut to 48 points and again for the same reason as last year, poor passing. Looks like we're never going to or won't be out of this number 48 any time soon, and we're going to have a very hard time getting to that prescribed number of points of 60. First, let me say that we support this change, and that we really understand all the complex reasons behind this change. In any case, we don't consider this to be a hire of students, because they can't type in a year, etc., but this is really one problem that needs to be solved systematically. We support this change at the moment. I talked to students, students and writers, etc., and they are just saying that the burden of students in Serbia and students in other European countries who are also signatories of the Bologna Declaration is very different. They say that for 60 points at an Austrian or French university, the student has from 1,500 to 1,800 hours of work. That our student is far more burdened. What's good about this process is that you can judge exactly how much of a student's burden per case, and that's how you get that data. What does this overburdening of students suggest and the fact that we have to resort to a reduction in the number of points each year? It indicates that colleges, i.e. Sections have not adapted their curricula and programmes to the applicable law. There are subjects where mandatory literature is too extensive, where the law is respected to be a one-semester exam, but no quality change has been made. Professors often resort to a test that lasted two semesters to break into one semester, and essentially nothing changed. So the programs at some colleges aren't adjusted at all. I'm stressing again, we support this change, but we think you have to do something urgent, because if you don't do it, then we'll mostly stay at these 48 points. Then he talks about Serbia's education as part of a single European education area falling into the water without talking about our diplomats who need to be equivalent to diplomats at other universities in Europe. When we talk about mobility, about exchange of students, the cab will explain our student – you know, our 48 points or 50 is not the same as yours. Nobody cares about that. It's just that you can see, the addition to the degree, you can see how many points the object was wearing. Another member I want to talk about is Article 3, which is predicted to increase to six again this year instead of the five scheduled. This measure did not even live because previous changes and additions talked about some kind of graduality, so this year the first step was supposed to be five deadlines tested, and the following year it would be four. That would be the end. So we couldn't even take this first step. When last year's changes were made, the DSS had an amendment that apparently should have really been accepted. And we've now invested that same amendment where we're changing this part where you say that this school year has six deadlines, leaving those other regulations hanging in the air. So now the students don't know if you're going to change next year where it says there's going to be a mandatory four. You can't see that from these changes and additions to the law right now. We suggest that instead of six, there be at least four, and no more than six deadlines examined, and that colleges be left free to determine how much they really need tested deadlines, that no uniform solution be made. We proposed this to Mr. Obradovic last year and there were many MPs who voted for the amendment, but he had no hearing, he was convinced that this would go well and that things would flow as he imagined, and obviously they did not. Please take a look at that amendment. While I'm talking about this amendment, you probably know, when we know, I'm telling us again, both teachers and students and deans, etc., that you have a different situation in colleges. For the colleges of social sciences, usually the people who work here say -- we're too busy, and now there are people who have been upset about this kind of change, we're over eight deadlines. They say that those six sometimes cross at eight if there's an October one, two etc. So in these colleges they say it's too much for them, that it disrupts the normal teaching process and that whatever it means, I quote them, students do a lot of calculations there, so they skip the deadline because they have a lot of deadlines, etc., and that they don't see that there's some kind of connection between a large number of test deadlines and passing, that it's basically the same thing. Well, then, to those colleges, which still have a duty to organise classes quality, should leave that possibility. On the other hand, professors at the colleges of natural science say that they are fully suited to having a lot of deadlines, or six deadlines. Some colleges of biology, chemistry, physics have very well blended into these six deadlines because they have different kinds of classes, which have many practical exercises and they, for example, oppose the idea of reducing that number of deadlines. All of this I have contributed to our amendment not to observe colleges equally and to leave them with this possibility, and then it will be some sort of safety or predictability for students. They will simply know how many exam deadlines they will have at a certain university. This way when we change their academics at the beginning of each school year, there is one uncertainty. I think that today all students with 48 or 40 points are watching this session, not to listen to us being smart or criticizing the ministry, but simply their own skin, knowing whether or not they're going to enter the next school year. You told the colleges to sign up for parole, so you probably know that there's been a riot there, and there's a condition for them to sign up, and there's still no law. What happened in the congregation was that no draft law was put on the agenda at all. One kind of uncertainty among everyone, and students, parents, and rich teachers. Now I'd like to say something about an art. 1st and 2nd, we see that Serbia will also officially receive a higher education institution where students will be educated for national security purposes. In this way, you are legally covering the Serbian government's decision a few months ago to establish and operate the National Security Academy. This is an extorted move from the government to the ministry. Isn't that supposed to be going in some other order? So, at that academy, maybe they're already in school, I don't know, schooling about the budget cost of 30 students for BIA needs. Part of the teaching staff will be hired by the authorities of the state administration responsible for national security affairs and will have the status of teachers and full-time co-workers at a higher education facility. The recent headline in the paper was – operatives of BIA professors at the university. When they're finished, students will be called a national security professional. Okay. However, if we know that there is a Faculty of Security at which 2200 students are currently studying, then this decision to form a National Security Academy does seem excessive. I can't believe it. I appreciate it's some specific business. They are called applicative professional items, etc. It's a little mystical. Mr. Stupar at the board meeting said it was the same as the clinical professors who work at the clinic and then teach the students medicine. I see it's in both these attitudes and in the member himself goes after each other. It seems a little unserious to me. I'm going back to the Faculty of Security. I can't believe that it couldn't, maybe it already exists, define and there's some study program because colleges can have both professional and it couldn't be solved without talking about the economic crisis and that next year this academy is going to cost 35 million dinars and 40 million dinars there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23968	Time. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23969	The Honored Chairman, Minister Jovanovic, representatives of the Ministry of Education, fellow MPs and MPs, LSV will vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education for the reason that students at this point are not to blame for the situation that took place. Today we have heard from every MP this problem that our Bologna system has stopped at 48 points. It's probably not the students' fault. It's the state and the ministry. They are guilty, after all, of teachers who may not have made the first effort to show students good will in order to meet the conditions of study under the Bologna system. Almost every school year at this time, students are threatening to protest, and the reason for the entry into the budget that the state is trying to raise to 60 points, while dissatisfied bolognas during the year are barely able to raise 48 points. They say the material is still too large and outdated and they haven't seen a letter from Bologna's modern study programs. A study called materials and classes by Bologna in Serbia has not been able to pass for seven years. The Bologna education system when it comes to the number of points is due to poor passing on exams and student protests, the budget threshold has indeed stopped at 48 points. However, when it comes to points, it is time to start applying what was prescribed by law seven years ago. In the opinion of students, the problem arises when some professors at the beginning of applying the Bologna Process, perhaps sometimes putting the number of points next to their cases on their own. Students need to learn more, and teachers need to adjust the amount of knowledge that can be mastered over a certain period. In Serbia, only every fifth student finishes their studies within the deadline. For two decades, the average of the study has been around eight years, much more than in the EU. Studies have shown that they are responsible for long-term studies of states, professors, and students. After all, students are not motivated because they know that they will wait for work for years to end, which they don't care when they finish it. Of course, that's not an excuse. The reform has not been completed. There are subjects that create problems for students and where passability is extremely low, and therefore there is a need to reform plans and programmes of individual subjects in all colleges. Professors say students don't meet enough outside of teaching, not regularly, but on some campaign system. Looking at the real situation in the country, students are increasingly skeptical about their future. The party I belong to, LSV has its own youth and youth program my party has repeatedly appealed to the Republic government to start taking care of living and studying standards. A reduction in the number of test deadlines from six to five has been announced and changes in each year. We have a big gap between colleges providing students and what students really expect. Our colleges have largely not adopted the methods and conditions of European universities' work, colleges have not solved the problem of burden on students, and the Law on Higher Education and its changes provides for continuity in strengthening study criteria. In addition, officials must not forget that each point is paid, and we all know what a difficult situation we are living in. The position of students is difficult, but the situation is not better even when students leave college. The codelist of the call is from 1992 and is not in line with the 2005 Law, and due to the lack of compliance with the National Employment Service Codebook, students who have completed schooling cannot come to work because the National Service does not recognize it at all, so these completed students in the competitions are unrecognizable. What is also frantic is - which is the exact message sent by the competent authorities that allow the provisions of the Higher Education Act to be violated year-on-year, so, for example, for students from the budget enrolled in the first year of primary studies of the school 2006-2007 to 2009-2010, the right to finance from the budget is reserved for the longest year of regular study, and the same provision is not respected. The students need to meet and meet the requirements, to coordinate the Codebook of Interest with the National Employment Service and higher school institutions, to undertake to define the eligibility of the level of tuition, but also the levels of administrative fees paid by students, to legally define all of this and to show us all that we live in a legal and socially responsible state. I've just been passing on some messages, the problems of students who are really in that study, not their own guilt, maybe for many years, so maybe it doesn't apply to these changes, but all of that, let me say, in some ways affects why we're constantly on those 48 points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23970	Thank you. National MP Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23971	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members of the People. Here, Minister, you're new. You've just taken office. A few days ago, you said, perhaps even yesterday, to quote: “We are not yet ready to accept or achieve the goals set that are unreal. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” My question is, what's unrealistic about it? Is that what we said seven years ago that we were going to do, which means those 60 loans or points and four exams, and do we attend here every year in the Assembly something we've seen in years ago? This reminds me of those scenes from the movie "Dejavi", every year the same thing. For seven years now, we have been delaying, by the votes of the MPs, on a proposal from the government, we are actually delaying the reform of higher education. What are we doing here? We're telling the students they're right. That's what Comrade Tito used to tell them - students are always right. It is true, but we also don't tell these students that they have to put pressure on colleges, reform themselves, reform their programmes, but we send them a message that it's enough for a few of them or a few thousand to get together, to put pressure on the government, and then the Ministry of Education to come out again with amendments and supplementing the Law with dependent education. Tell me, when will you propose to re-amend the Higher Education Act, since what you have proposed here, this change only solves the current question for this year? What about the next school year, I mean 2014-2015? This change, you know it better than I do, is late, school year has already started and students should probably be enrolled already, but as much as I know, and I have friends and acquaintances and kids friends and acquaintances in colleges, the university administration is pretty much a mess. They will now be later on enrolment, students will not go to class, and not even you, as a minister or government, will yet know the financial implications of such a decision. This change is incomplete, solving only the current issue for this school year, with a conscious understanding that a new amendment to this law will come soon. I think it's about time that this complete reform was actually done, as foreseen by the Higher Education Act, which was passed seven years ago. Simply, that application cannot be delayed indefinitely. Every year we delay it, I don't know when we'll stop with the delay. Is it possible that, seven years after the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, it is still inapplicable to achieve 60 points or 60 credits and four test deadlines? As a country that expects to start accession negotiations with the EU in January, I think we should pay attention to something that has not been said in our professional public. As far as I was following, there were only two, three round tables, which is the new EU education strategy presented to the public on 20 November last year under the name ‘Retinking education’ – ‘Rethinking education’, which should serve as a guideline for Member States to adapt education systems to the real needs of the labour market, how students are dominated by critical opinions, taking the initiative, solving problems. Some say the European Commission document is presented as a fundamental shift in education. My question is – when will Serbia make this fundamental shift in education, when will our education come in line with labour market needs? Because, as it is today, it is certainly in a huge proportion to the real needs of the labour market. Why? Because there is no emphasis on entrepreneurship, on "IT" skills, no emphasis on learning foreign languages, on standardisation, that every student knows at least two foreign languages, because we, as I said, are preparing for EU membership. However, your predecessor said, to quote: “By what we have achieved in that area, we are already a member of the EU, only there is no one to confirm it. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” No, unfortunately, who formally confirms, but confirms statistics that we are in 26th place by the number of highly educated people in the country, regardless of how many private colleges. Regardless of the hyperproduction of diplomas, masters, PhDs, we are still in an infamous 26th place in Europe, or compared to EU countries. It is said that our education system is characterized by the inapplicability of knowledge and methods to be obtained. I would like to keep your attention to something that has now become current, in recent days, that topic is always current, but in recent days it has been updated by our new finance minister, Mr. Lazar Krstic, which is a nostration of diploma. So we who have been killed by calls that our people who have left, our children, which is said popularly, who have gone abroad, who get diplomas, masters, PhDs abroad, call them to come, to find work here in Serbia, and then to prevent something called nostration of diplomas in front of them. Here, the same European Commission in the 2012 Progress Report, I will not talk about the next report that will come out in a few days, says Serbia has not progressed in recognising foreign diplomas and this is listed as one of the conditions that will appear in the course of the negotiations and in the accession process. How many months does it take to get a diploma to nostrify, how much money does it take? Is it possible that the Belgrade University, which is said to be in some five hundred places on the Shanghai List, has no hearing of nostrifying a faster Harvard degree, Yale, from one of the first fifty on the same Shanghai list? Some say it takes several months and several thousand euros. Is it possible that the Ministry of Education, or the state, cannot take over this process from the university? The colleges are autonomous, the university is autonomous, we all know that, but the state should, precisely because of our desire that all these young, educated people return to Serbia and help Serbia, take over this process, that it lasts, say, two or three weeks, to cost several thousand dinars. I think it would have a significant effect on this, yet for now only by calling on all these young people to return to Serbia. I wanted to ask you something else, which may not have anything to do with these amendments to the law, which is, what happens to our participation in the PISA tests? Do we have the money, the 122,000 euros, to restore this programme for 2015, or were we all unhappy with the 2006 results, so who says - better and not to test ourselves when the results are what they are? I think that, in addition to all these costs we are looking at these days, many of which will be cut down to meet the belt tightening policy, painful reform measures, there must be hundreds of thousands of euros for Serbia, to continue this project, which the OECD has launched and we have been working with for four years. They are a devastating knowledge and the results our children achieve, but the sooner and the more we face such phenomena, the more we hope, the sooner and the more we adapt to the new educational challenges that are all around us. First of all, these European challenges, because we are a country that needs to quickly cross the path of negotiations and join EU membership. It's not just Bologna. Bologne was designed by European universities, which should become competitive with the American, we know, to enable students from the bench to be ready to do something, to apply their knowledge immediately, to achieve some real level of expertise, not formal academic education. I can fully agree with this, but you'll agree, our preparation takes too long. It's seven years since the Law on Higher Education was passed, and we still can't stick to what we wrote in the original law, which we all supported back then. Every year here, not just as a minister of enlightenment from a month ago, but with everyone who was in your position, we meet the same question – what should we do? We're going to give the students another chance, we're not going to follow the law, we're going to change it every year, so, like I said, I expect this law to suffer changes soon, because it's only going to solve the problem for this current school year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23972	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Associates of Mr. Minister, we have before us amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which we changed a year ago. That shows we're dealing with a problem that's happened to us in the flash, in the breath, and in the blink of an eye. Probably next year at the same time, or some other call, or we'll sit down and try to put out the fire that's going on in the higher education segment. So whenever we bring amendments and amendments to the law or when we pass a law, when we define ourselves to support a member or not to support a member, to support an amendment to that law that is proposed, we change someone's life significantly. We're significantly changing the course of someone's education right now. It's a responsibility we must be aware of. Exactly what one of his colleagues just said – what message do we send, and what do we want with these changes and additions to achieve? The Bologna process has been in high education in Serbia since 2005. Its main role was to be the reform process of higher education, to introduce mobility, attractiveness and employability of all those finishing higher education, to adapt to a wide knowledge market, to the world knowledge market. Because whether we want to admit it or not, the most expensive commodity in the world is knowledge. The biggest resource in the world is knowledge. It comes with organized education, of course. So some very serious and very advanced countries invest most in this, such as Finland and Japan. Of course, it's only a distant vision for us now, but we shouldn't give up on following that path and copying from those who have already come wisely to something, some good things, and constantly seeking them. Because, as Brian Tracy said, education is like rowing upstream, as soon as you stop, you go backwards. It's definitely a pure law of physics that exists. So we have four members of the Higher Education Act in front of us, I'm not counting on the fifth technical one, which we're changing this time. The third and fourth members concern precisely the changes that we are trying to help students in this emerging situation, to get one more test period, i.e. to introduce six test deadlines at this time and to reduce the number of points prescribed from 50 to 48 instead of five. It's not technically something that's not going to be done in this high house, it's definitely going to come out. It is the current solution to the situation and, as I have already said, the quenching of a fire that at this point in society is causing dissatisfaction in a huge group of young people. I'm only interested in whether the Ministry may have been concerned with the extent of the effects, how many students will have benefits from this reduction in the number of points that will allow them to stay on the budget, because as soon as they stay on the budget, the number of those who will pay, etc. These are causal-consequential connections that we need to be aware of, and they certainly have material effects, so I'm curious whether the Ministry has any indicators on the subject? As for the test deadlines, whether it's five or six, really, last year we had a lot of sex on this particular subject when we were bringing amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. We didn't have a dilemma about it. A large number of test deadlines, i.e. an increase in the number of test deadlines, do not harm education. On the contrary, it can bring very useful effects. I remember my studies, in my own time, decades ago, at the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad, where I had a professor who was one of the greatest living linguists and celebrities at the time, Dr. Aleksandar Mladenovic, who simply allowed students from the history of language and ancient Slovenian language to come and go to his office every Wednesday, if they think they're ready. Every time he gave it a chance. In due time, indeed, all those who passed with him came out with extraordinary knowledge. So the number of exams and the number of possibilities to go out and confirm your knowledge has not damaged your knowledge. What is worrying about our higher education at this point, and what will the Ministry certainly deal with in this attempt to reform higher education, except for these two burning problems that, as I said, we are going to solve here, is at all what our vision of higher education is? So that's something that really stands before this ministry as a serious problem. How do we see higher education, or what do we expect from people with higher education in our country? What do we offer them as a future? First of all, I would point to a serious problem in the jargon, now very often referred to as “cash end Carrie’s diplomas”, which means – pay and wear. These are instant diplomas acquired in various colleges and numerous accreditations that do not correspond to the paper that is being issued and with which a man afterwards presupposes to work somewhere. It's a serious problem we're not seriously dealing with. So, higher education should have a higher education capacity to the end, and we really need to show that responsibility, first of all, because we have entered this reform serious process, a Bologna process that has now been accepted from the largest number of countries in the EU. If we want to have a future, we have to make a confession. A colleague earlier said that in America nothing means a diploma to you, if she's practically not being followed by knowledge, and that's really the only thing we have to pay attention to and the only thing that needs to be the result of higher education. What we also have to do, which we haven't dealt with so far in, and to a sufficient extent, the Ministry of Education and we as a society, are educational profiles that require the labour market. I'm going to remind you again by one example of my friends who moved out 20 years ago to Canada, two specialists doctors, my fellow citizens, who when they applied to the embassy to move out, they were told that for their profession, specialization, they were both doctors specialists in Canada for the next 20 years, but some other jobs could work and at that price they went and did other jobs. It's a serious relationship of society to higher education, that people know exactly where their place is or at least where their place is ever going to come up in some job schedule to do the work they've been educated for, not to invest. Be careful, investing in higher education in Serbia, it's long not cheap, it's very expensive for families, for parents, because most students come from the interior, it's not just about the cost of tuition and payment or not paying for exams, it's all by following the costs it brings to the family when it comes to another city. In most cities, that's the way it is. Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac or my Sombor, when the students come, they cost a very expensive family, and the family has great denials to give someone that diploma of higher education, because a lot of it invests both materially and morally and emotionally, to be free to say, and you don't end up having a proper and adequate job or waiting for it intolerably long or to be demoralized, you lose what's scariest, not only to waste time that is irreparable, you lose both hope and illusions. That's what we have to be serious about as a society, and that's why we're here to respond here to the modern needs of society or to the needs of modern society. So, the NS will certainly support these changes and complements with a certain skeptic on the first two members of the law that we're going to talk about the same. Indeed, with full understanding that this is the moment in which we press the consequences of the crisis we need to meet these young people, we need to show understanding, to put in another effort to increase the chance to make it easier, faster, so if we allow even cheaper access to the desired higher education, to the degree of higher education. So that's what we owe them and we owe the whole society, but what next year? If we're going to have a protest announcement next year again in September, if we're going to have a dissatisfaction with the threat of someone coming out on the street and coming to parliament, then we're going to sit down again and bring back two members and once again just amend and supplement the already existing changes and additions and go on forever with it, or we're going to find a reform solution, answer the task and say, take it or leave it, this is the Law on Higher Education. As some countries have solved it in the long run and who fits in, it fits and ends and it is a filter of social circumstances that those who want to be a motor and a driver of society go through. We really all look at them as the leader of society, and they should be. They are educated for this place, not the simplest place in society, but one high place to be in some way a lighthouse to many others. As far as these first two members are concerned, and are offered as amendments and additions to the law, we simply saw that this is where it is introduced, or defined by education, primarily by people in national security, and when there are professional studies, it was not clear to me until the end of Article 1 or where the article 40 is being changed, what it means to obtain a common degree, but I will try not to engage in my reserve against these two members, from some personal position, and I think it is time for national security to really be educated and engaged in national security at one high level, and I'm always for education and for educated staff, so I'll be free to comment on, if it contributes, this is a bit of detail and cynical, that a network of friends's service network is reduced in the field that terribly expensive cost of the state, I welcome this education staff in national security. All those who remember and who will remember the infamous UN and UDBE, will know what I'm talking about, all of us who have been in politics for a long time on this side and on the other side of the ruling coalitions know what I'm talking about. So, in voting day, the NS will support changes and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23974	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23975	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not be so hard on Minister Jovanovic today for only 30 days and it would be really incorrect to blame him for the state of our science and education. That's really hard. It's not just about students who don't know how many points they're going to need to type in next year. They're in trouble too, their professors, scientists, the scientific community that was out on the streets a few months ago, because they were late for their receipts, and I'm not talking about the amount of investment in science. Today we are talking about whether students should study, even though they have collected 48 points, to study the cost of the state, or to be on the budget. I'm the first to support this, they should be allowed to study on the budget, because they are the least to blame for not having enough points under the current law. It's a guilty system that was set up seven years ago but not accomplished. Namely, Bologna, you to the ministers do well know how well ad hoc is accomplished, from college to college, from cathedral to cathedral, from professor to professor, depends on how much he adheres to the rules of Bologna. There are many universities that don't apply to Bologna at all. At my university, we were now looking at the textbook rule book and it clearly says that according to one point, the 60 pages of the textbook are appropriate, which means that one textbook would need maximum, let's say if the item was scored with six points to be 360 pages. At my university, Bologna applies, but I know colleges where it doesn't apply at all and where textbooks have 700 and 800 pages and where students in one semester need to master the subject, lay down and collect fifty-fifty points. That's not real. If we didn't adopt these amendments to the law, we would have a problem with good students who have a serious average, and some over nine, their families, their parents, and the question is how much it costs to finance 1,000 euros in some colleges per year. We know that even now, studying is not free, that even though students are on the budget, they buy textbooks themselves and that we will wait a long time until free schooling. However, if there will be good news for students who have 48 points that they will be on the budget, that the state will allow them to school, not that they have to hire to finance their education, we unfortunately have one bad news, ministers, for the academic community. We won't hear it today, but probably tomorrow, it will probably be a novelty for you, as well as for me, but from the words of the first Deputy Prime Minister, and to God and Prime Minister, it seems that the educators, or professors of colleges, will have fewer salaries. They haven't changed their salaries for about seven or eight years, they're the same all the time, they're being defused. When the professor, an extraordinary professor, had 1,000 euros, he now has 750 euros. If their salaries are cut, ministers, we will be at risk of a state university and many teachers will look for a place either abroad or at private universities. I think, Minister, we should have an answer to that question. I hope someone has talked to you on the subject, says – Ministers, you know, since this school year your teachers will have 10-20% and they should be punished because this government is incompetent and because it spends money in vain on other things, airplanes, trucks, etc. I don't think teachers should be reduced salaries, as pensioners say, will be touched. The special question is PISA tests, Petnica, a number of other projects for which there should be money, Minister. You have two choices -- to be a bad minister, like your predecessor, because some others in his ministry, according to him, made mistakes, and he didn't want to admit it right away, so he was reconstructed, or after this scenario that I'm telling you about, you're not going to run a ministry where the academic community doesn't have the basic conditions to work. So you have two choices. This is a reference to your position in this gala of the vice president and the president's announcement of the austerity measures, belt tightening and the fact that they tell us we're in front of bankruptcy. They said they were here to get us out of bankruptcy. Another thing, I hope, through the amendment of this law, you will accept the amendments submitted by the DS and that you will give up on Article 2 which I consider to be a cowardly egg in this law. Article 1, also, in the part where you propose to amend the Law on Higher Education in which you introduce the possibility of forming, or maiming, this "bin" academy, high school or whatever it is that will produce national security engineers. We already have a police academy. I think that's enough for this country, that we don't need any more nukes to create some experts. I agree with a colleague who thinks there's enough installer to mount a listening device and doesn't need an engineer to do that. Why should we now, under cover of student care, push through something that is somehow already on the way and make something that does not exist in Europe? For North Korea, Cuba is not sure, but this is something that is getting out of the state framework and there is a danger of being a serious problem of the independence of institutions, the independence of the judiciary, the police, etc. We're simply creating something that this government didn't place as a priority. I don't think we should create a country where they go to school, I don't know, that's what people say, spies. I think we have enough high school institutions to train people for whom there is a need. We need people who would work in Silicon Valley, make chips, that could do jobs in the field of agriculture when these irrigation funds arrive, people who could raise this country, experts of all kinds. We don't need this kind of footage, and it's our serious reserve in part of this bill. That's why we suggested that this member be deleted. Of course, with all that, we support the fact that students will be allowed to type in next year with 48 points. Dear Ministers, I think it should be given, in the coming period, more importance to the people of our colleges to the academic community. I don't think it's a bad thing that this government now has ministers, including those who came from other universities, who have graduated from respected international colleges. It's bad that they can't pass a degree. I don't know why instead of this member who's creating this higher education facility where listening engineers will be educated, you haven't accepted a proposal for our law and implemented it in this law that diplomas are nostified by one accelerated system, a system that knows the EU, that is not the autonomous right of every higher school institution. I'm sure you've had so many experiences of people coming to you desperate. They say -- I finished one of the world's most respected universities on the Shanghai list between the first fifty, I can't nostify my diploma, they send me from one office to another, from one university to another, from one minister to another. There's no way out. Your colleague Krstic also found himself in such a disembarkation. Do you know why that's the problem? Because we insult our staff and because that area seems to be of no interest to anyone. If someone had seriously dealt with the proposal we made a few months ago, then we had that problem solved. Then perhaps some people would prefer to return to Serbia. So far, we've got people like Stros Khan and some other screaming names coming in, and after three months of free work, they're gonna get some kind of compensation. Minister, I ask you, will Stros Khan get paid by being taken out of the pocket of a university professor? I guess that'll be it. You'll cut your salaries to university professors, not you, but those who decide on it and you'll give that money to Stros Khan, you'll give you money for the television subscription that you're withdrawing. A television subscription is being cancelled. Now you're going to pull huge funds out of your budget by cutting your salary to doctors, teachers, staff without which this country cannot go forward. Minister, raise your voice in the government, if anyone asks you for it, if someone doesn't raise their voice before it does, and it doesn't shut you up, as I understand it, it was like that last time, even though those who yelled at the government are boasting. If there is no money for science, this country has no perspective, no perspective. And this little expert will go out. Why would anyone work for 65 or 70, some professor at a technological, agricultural, natural and mathematical university, if he can work for a ten-time higher salary at any higher education facility in Europe or at some institute? Love doesn't make you live. We know that they all have families and that they find it hard to decide. However, their work has been degraded as it used to be in the '90s. If something urgent is not done, I'm afraid those who leave the country will be even more. I am truly afraid of tomorrow, since I have heard that the publication of these measures has been delayed for tomorrow. I am just afraid for these reasons, because instead of the money being put into the budget by being more tax discipline, by the taxpayers paying their obligations, by the people who are on Tatar Hill and the Valley of Thieves in Novi Sad, I don't know where they build villas in Belgrade, by paying for legalisation, by paying VAT, by paying for other obligations to the state, by paying for a lot of debts that are public enterprises and who don't care, because they don't have any sanctions because they're not being charged, not by tearing away the skin of ordinary citizens and in this case by scientific workers. I won't be long. You have support for this section of the students, their status. Please consider our amendment. I see that all the opposition parties have responded to that, to the part relating to this higher school institution, so I'll see you in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23976	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23977	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23978	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, co-workers from the Ministry who are present, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. As we know, the law was first passed in 2005. For the first time in terms of what was needed to begin the Bologna Process, and in the meantime, the law has repeatedly endured changes and additions, and this happened in 2008, 2010, and here we are now in October 2013. It is about a law that is very important and solves complex issues about higher education, with the tendency to integrate higher education into European space and to increase international competence of higher education institutions or institutions. Just such a formulation and one such goal already speaks of seriousness and where we need to go and where we need to go. Any easy keeping of these goals or delay actually puts us aside and practically further away from the European area of education, further away from what should be this passing and personnel and knowledge, etc. Every addition and amendment has its purpose, as well as in all other laws, and very often here we have amendments and additions to certain laws, which is to respect the reality in which we live and in which the law is applied, the removal of the shortcomings that have been observed and the respect of the currentity in the environment and with us. Of course, there is a need for a single addition and some changes, because of the above facts. The Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly support changes and additions to this law. In this area we have certain specificities when it comes to the relationship between the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development towards certain segments and levels of education, where we have that the Ministry directly through normisation, through the adoption of laws, through the supervisory procedure, etc., without some major problems, can establish communication and implement what is drawn up in pre-school, primary and secondary education. When it comes to the relations of the Ministry of Higher Education, we must bear in mind that there is a certain barrier and that things are coming together, because of the fact that there is autonomy of higher education. Often, this autonomy and abuse by higher education institutions arises, and difficulties that last for years arise. We, in fact, in general, have certain and good results in the area of higher education, there are certain and certain difficulties that we should have already removed or that we must remove in the near future. Therefore, I stress that a partnership is needed and that is very correct and honest between the Ministry and higher education, i.e. between the Ministry and the University or the Academy of Professional Studies. The reform of higher education is not only possible by passing laws in this area, but above all, something else is needed, which is happening within the university, which is internal reform and change in composition, or within the university and the Academy of Professional Studies. So far, a reform that should be fully accompanied by the Bologna principles seems to have not fully revived and has partly produced good results with some higher education institutions and others. In Europe, there is an integrated system of higher education. We are not at the necessary level of the integrated system that we are talking about in Europe. It includes an integrated university and an integrated academy of vocational studies. Our reality is that we have university autonomy but in practice we actually have quite the autonomy of individual universities within the university, and that's where problems arise. The essence of the problem that we are talking about here today seems to me in a constructive way, regardless of whether the discussions come from a position or opposition, I am speaking in general, without paying attention to some tendency that arises in discussions, but the essence of the problem is in unadjusted teaching programs in some higher education institutions, in the content of textbooks, in the way of evaluation, in communication between professors and students, in the organisation of the teaching process, in the continued participation of students and teachers in all planned terms to be completed and respected. Furthermore, the bottom line of the problem is what needs to be a constant check of the teaching content, respect for the continuity of the entire teaching process, etc. Finally, when the examination comes from a particular case, it could be called the final part of the exam, where it is conducted in the form of one conversation, in one conclusion of what was previously a continuous work in the teaching process and it should be the crown of overall work. The fact is that in some universities and high schools there are resistances in the application of the principles and new work organisation assumed by the Bologna process. It is clear that in the next period, and if possible in the shortest time, we will have to work together, on the one hand to autonomous higher education, and on the other hand to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, to address the essentials of these problems. Otherwise, we will lag behind in Serbia's process of joining the European educational process, which would be truly disastrous for us. Through the amendments and additions to the laws that are before us, we actually have today to repeat, several times, these changes, two criteria and conditions that are standardized in the law, which is the number of test deadlines and the number of points needed to obtain funding conditions over the budget, with the tendency to increase the number of test deadlines, and to reduce the number of points as a condition for the goal being set or keep at the same level. This is the result of resistance through the essential changes required by the Bologna process. Either way, the time that comes will require us to reduce the number of test deadlines, and the number of points increases as a condition for funding from the budget. It is a practice in many European countries, especially Western European countries and the EU, where we should go. We have resistance to a new one, and it's part of our consciousness. It's a universal approach to life issues and it's part of us, and that's the bigger problem. But when we talk about such resistance, about such a life philosophy, it is not only present when it comes to education. All changes today and all reforms and in other spheres of life and work really suffer one fierce resistance, and we must overcome it with common forces. When it comes to the amendments mentioned and the additions of this law, we specifically have to obtain funding rights for the budget, of course through the ranking of students and by what the average is, instead of the 50 points prescribed today, which the student needs to achieve after the amendments and additions of the 2012 law, we return it to 48 points today, and in the school 2013 and 2014 the number of deadlines examined is six instead of five. I must stress that the SPS will support these changes, that is, these proposals, but for this very reason and for the reasons that I have talked about, that we have unfinished reform in higher education, that there are resistances in the implementation of the Bologna process and that a large part of the change comes from that closed circle, which is the university because of too much independence, or the autonomy of the colleges themselves, in relation to what the university should be, as it is in Western European countries. I must remind myself that in 2012, when we brought amendments and additions to this law, which we are changing back again today, that we had the view of KONUS, or the Conference of the University of Serbia and the Student Conferences of Students, together with the Ministry, who met and brought together and found one agreement that changes should be made according to certain dynamics and that actually slowly increased the number of points as a condition for obtaining funding rights from the budget, i.e. a gradual reduction in the number of exams. At the time, all of them agreed, and students, i.e. the Student Organization and the Conference of the University of Professors. We see today's attitude has changed. Still, that's our reality. We have to accept that. Therefore, the problem is very complex, and the mines can, after all this is said to blame the Ministry of Education, even less the minister who at the time proposed these changes, because if only the Ministry is thought to be guilty of all this, then it must be wrong for some other facts that talk about high-end results in high school, which is wrong to keep it quiet. In 2012, the Belgrade University took place between 400th and 500th on the Shanghai List, and in 2013 between 300th and 400th places, where success is observed somewhere around 22,000 universities. It's a significant result that says that we have really great potential in higher education, and that this potential would be even more exposed and demonstrated, if we essentially changed what is required and what is required by the Bologna process, and what we have to go to common forces. Our students from different universities have made very high places in international competitions. We really have something to raise ourselves with, both in natural sciences and in social sciences. From year to year, the number of students financed from the budget has increased by 1% to 2% in recent years, so today we have about 55% of students who are financed from the budget. It's an envious figure, one percent that's really for the respect, which says that the state, or the Resort Ministry, takes care of students, takes care of higher education. Three years ago, we've got the state funding doctoral studies. It seems to me this year that 675 students have enrolled on the cost of the state doctoral study, which is also one information for respect, in relation to what is happening in this matter in our environment. Some of the flat-rate statements coming out of this parliament, that there is chaos in parliament and that we are unable to address issues concerning higher education, are totally inconclusive and unacceptable. This parliament, as seen today from the debate, and in the past years, when it discussed these issues, showed great seriousness and analysts and tried to form and point out what should be done in the further process of adapting high school to the Bologna process, what should be done in the process of further reforms. Secondly, here are criticisms from some MPs that the need for this law to be incorporated into the agenda as soon as possible and voted, so that students can enroll, I must point to one finesse. If we had put it on the agenda when the first regular session started, this law, which is too much to pass as soon as possible, would have been voted out in maybe 15 or 20 days, when we exhausted the whole agenda. So, by inserting this, conditionally speaking, special sittings in the agenda, we are today discussing in principle, on Wednesday we solve and talk in particular, and on Thursday at 10:00 we vote the law and on time we respond to what is essential the need to solve those problems that we have in high school today. In addition to all the difficulties we have in this area, I must commend all the efforts of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, which have been done backwards for five years, where we have had another ruling structure, which has participated in all this and which should share what is fame and gain and good in what has been done, and also, to suffer criticism from what has not been done, I mean DS, and of course in these years. Therefore, the results exist, however, should not be satisfied with this. I think we've all seen the problems that we have and that we need to approach more aggressively in one interaction and co-operation with the university, with an autonomous higher education, and that the state together with it is really starting to make fundamental reforms. The Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly support these amendments and additions to the law, as this must not remain like this and go to the harm of students. I agree with some MPs who said that the least they could do was to blame the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23979	The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23980	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed, before us, would have said a small number of changes within the Law on Education that we are changing in a particular segment, essentially in Articles 40, 73, and we are doing another, let's conditionally say cosmetic, but message and change of high content, not cosmetics that was contained in the earlier last year's law and amendments to the Law on Higher Education. This new thing brought before MPs where the government is given the opportunity to open up study programmes on behalf of the state administration, I expect it to be done by rationally assessing that it would not otherwise be possible. These are the specificities of the profile, which the state needed, that the state had a lot of experience with the personnel entering these services with another type of education, it was despite a realistic assessment that at some point in time it would cost or need a limited number of personnel, calculated rationally and made a decision to place it. What I prefer about these proposals is the fact that the government is closer to regulating the conditions and way of achieving the study programmes. And that's where it's supposed to be said -- alas, and why wasn't it for other high school institutions? For our past five or six years, the government, not the government, has had enough of the critical work of the authorities that are helping the ministry, and that is, above all, the National Council for Higher Education and its commission, it's enough for them to come critically to the problem, so we wouldn't be at the core of the general issues that somehow, I'm getting a little jealous and they're bringing it to the Bologna girlry, it's Bologna's fault. It's not Bologna's fault, it's a general paper of three or four pages. So general that its implementation and not implementation can hardly be questioned. What is it that so far has not been done in Serbia, which could not have been carried under the so-called. The Bologna process? No mobility? There was a way. They're not recognised diplomas? They did, too. No teacher-teacher co-operation? Yes, it is, because such demands by students as they are now are particularly shaped in the form of strikes as they were in earlier years were not so much. Didn't you know the criteria for passing? Yeah, it's taxing, too. It was known what could be transferred in the next year and so there was no reason to rebel. Were the curricula and the programs fundamentally changing? They are, unfortunately, because now they're positive, complexly depicted in a shortened amount of time with an extremely hard time for students to follow. We're also hearing a speech about not putting students together, which is why the professor's disagreement with Bologna is. How come I, who disagrees with Bologna, can make my lecture look bad if it's not Bologna, but rather look like it was before? What's lost here? What is this object that will make Bologna different? What can change that? There's no political influence here. No subjective, these are concrete facts. It's not artistic experiences of curricula and programs, but we're just doing them ourselves in a much shorter time, and we're putting students and ourselves at risk of giving up attention, the risk of inconsistencies in mutual relations, the risk of dishonesty we have towards students, and that's why I'm experiencing this not as an act of the Minister and act of the Government, but as an act of the students. They are not as a young part of the generation and academic community, perhaps even fully aware that what they are looking for at first sight, that with 48 points they are moving on, which is understandable, because every youth is always in confrontation with the regime and the system that makes it impossible in something. They didn't choose such conditions of study, they didn't choose a numerical statement that something 48 meant for or against. The crowd signed on to the budget, and it's natural they want to stay on it. A bunch of them paid out of their pockets, poor parents by the book. He almost told us that we are becoming a country where they will pay more and more and the right to education and treatment will have a rich layer. That's the official position of the prime minister. So we are going towards that path and it is quite understandable that students and their parents, as one of the stakeholders, really want this to be resolved once and to reach the goal of continuing their education by some bypassed easier route. We agree to the change the Ministry gave us. That's all we're complicit in. Finally, students are not guilty either, because they themselves did not know what was waiting for them under the new reformed education system. This was brought to them by us who ended up in the old educational process and many of us who did not say it, who were in the world to admit, wore diplomas, titles and honorary lectures held in American, English, European cities, were in the world to confess and came from a system that we later tried to get rid of as quickly as possible and to bring it down as easily as possible. That's the point, and that's why in this way we support the student's desire to continue, because they're not to the end of the blame. In the further part of the story, I will tell you what is actually responsible and in the education system as we have applied, and also in the interest of those who are users of the educational process. They're students, teachers, the state that finances all of this, I'm mostly talking about state institutions, because a lot of them have gone against it and students like that are asking to stay on the budget. After all, let's see what's left of it in the Bologna Process. Let's look at their key orders, 50-60 points, that's the foundation. We've introduced a system whose foundations we're destroying, so it's not a good system. If we've defined that it's something 60, and it can't really be achieved the way we've imagined that students have to learn certain objects, it means we've got a bad idea, or that way of grading and estimating is not good. It's the foundation of Bologna. Then what? We're not taking down Bologna, we're saying it's not good. We said three-degree studies. Now that we've agreed to that, what are we on? We've lost the phenomenal opportunity for someone through a master's degree to evaluate themselves where science is, to slowly separate the profession from scientific research, to form as a research figure who can see and feel an area of interest. Now they're automatically coming out as a master after integrated studies. What does a general practitioner who is a master, a master, feel himself in scientific research and knows that somewhere he is an expert on something? He's going to three-year doctoral studies right away. They're nowhere below 120,000 dinars, up to 140. Some colleges receive 100 students. God forbid they get 100 out of the year that they're done, so everyone who's done their studies goes to the doctor's office. Why? Because the autonomy of the university has been so terriblely expressed that it is a huge source of money that the dean and the group around it, tested by conditions and criteria that are not quite clear, the sausages are called to the National Educational Council, form a narrow group of people, who conduct doctoral studies and have extra income from it. We therefore welcome the Minister's decision to finally reach the list, to information on how many in our state, private colleges there are professors, docents, regular and extraordinary professors, as much as in other jobs these same people are doing, what total incomes are, what are of these salaries, what are the participations in projects or writing various other programmes that the Kobajagi require of the economy. It's just, I can't imagine the information that was in a newspaper where someone would have a two million advance salary at the Faculty of Economics in a Serbian city or did some kind of project for a private person. Who is this private in Serbia who gave the professor two million to do a project of feasibility, two million dinars, so that he gets so much monthly, and who is this privateer? Let's see, it's probably someone very, very powerful. So let's take a look at that environment for once. Is that the kind of environment that's teaching and favoring students all the time? Probably not. Maybe that's what the students are all about, not about these two million, but about whether this professor has enough time. I'll tell you that, unfortunately, and the teachers aren't too excited, because some of them were accredited for 100 students, they received through the self-financed budget to get the money, live money, so much more. And what did they do? They made teachers, assistants and associates work on two shifts. It's completely unphysiological for someone to finish training on a patient or in a laboratory at half nine or nine o'clock in the evening, to have teachers practice on a patient twice on the same case for four hours, eight hours. Well, that patient can't survive just one study in November. How far did that autonomy go? There may be some more evidence of living, convincing evidence in practice. Comparable diplomas. And when diplomats of both Yugoslav and Serbian were not valid anywhere if he went to a man with the performances of a good expert they receive today, not in Bologna, according to the diplomas they had brought before. The people who made the trade and the profession don't ask, we've heard so many examples about it. What about this part, as I would say, of these bolonian items large, the interaction one that Bologna, that girlry famous, that veil that wraps us into a continuous galatias and then when you say it like that, everyone says -- here's this speech against Bologna. No, it's one general, one curtain, one til that covered the education system, and how anyone asks for a head under it is against it. De facto, she offers quite ordinary and normal things, she just needs to carry them out and not invite herself to anything that doesn't seem to be responsible for it. Interaction between students and teachers. There's no interaction. There are clearly expressed interests of any kind and one conformism on one side or the other. It's a huge burden on students. Let's say they're teachers. And how would they be guilty? Is it their fault that some two-month object turned them into a one-semester? What can they get out of their cases? Can this class take one or two classes? No, it's four or five. The next day the student goes to meet the exercises, then the day after tomorrow he has a test and does it every or every two weeks, and then some final test. Does it happen that a student leaves class at a time when he's called, and he never knows when he'll be called? Maltenes carry school journals and enroll their children. A real dril, a casamatic dril, who does not look like an academic relationship with a student, respecting his personality, because that day he may not want to hear that lecture or perhaps prepare for another exam. He'll get zero on the exercises on that same cathedral, zero points. It's his verdict that no matter how much he knows, and he's always got a ten on all the tests, he won't have a final score of ten. He'll get five points, what the item is worth, but his score won't be ten. The same goes for if he doesn't get a biochemistry test, physiology, the first of three or four and doesn't come out, sick, prevented, unprepared, but comes out in 15 days again, he can get ten on that test, and his maximum score is eight. Amazing. What amazing? Who needs to check it out? It's an inspection. Who's supposed to send her? Minister. Who needs to signal? Those bodies where college professors work for double salaries than they have at their colleges. It's the National Council, these are his commissions that have to go into a genuine review of the quality of the education system, to see if it's quality, if possible. The second thing that's wrong with the autonomy that's being pictured here is financial autonomy, unequivocal. Some have designed several related branches, made universities of such or such sciences to gain financial independence, but the autonomy of managing, management of the facility is one terrible and dangerous phenomenon. You have a chance today that the Dean is a god and a beating in college. How is it by sublaw, by the main statute, to whom the law gives two or three sentences? It is brought by a higher school institution on a proposal from the relevant bodies and nothing to anyone. Where does the statute end? Instead of having the ministry authenticated earlier -- the statute is in agreement with the law, not to offer solutions worse than it issues the law, it ends up in the Senate. Well, good. Why does an even lower sublaw act, ending in the Senate, allow a university to use criteria for selecting teachers, indirectly or directly, so as to strengthen that it is easier for the entire university to be more valuable to publish published work in a magazine than at that university? Villages of oligarchy of people close to the dean, elected, because mostly all those in the line of mentors who have at least two topics defended. Who now exclusively excludes the electoral council and gives all prerogatives to the scientific and teaching council, where you're watching again whether you're a mentor or not? Regular, extraordinary teachers are not members of election councils in some universities. Unimaginable. Where does that say in Bologna? Nowhere. Is he touching the bologna of that? It doesn't touch. But that's how Pinky saw Tito, so someone saw that Bologna must look like that. They made such a nice deal, prescribed nights from Geneva, Zurich, Copenhagen, the way medicine looks. Why didn't they take Lomonos, I wonder, so they didn't make a mistake about what medicine, dentistry or pharmaceuticals looked like? When some universities opened dentistry, it was a rebellion of other universities with tradition – what the program looks like. What's he saying? Again that the state doesn't control the good work of the university, the work of the authorities that the university appoints, because we don't even have a body that's competent. The college community has been abolished a long time ago. If they hadn't, there wouldn't have been what cost me two hours of work at least, to determine that medical college programmes in Serbia in four cities are so different to each other that if you allow the internal academic mobility promoted by Bologna, then if someone skillfully looks at this goes from Nis, Kragujevac or Novi Sad to Belgrade in the third year they won't have an epidemiology to pass, and twice they will have statistics as an object. How do you get points for a student like that? How do you explain that this epidemiology in one college is worth 3.5 points, this ESPB points, and somewhere worth four? Who could have solved that? College communities, unique programs like the old days, a thick red book, a board, in which both Sarajevo and Belgrade and Nis and Kragujevac wrote, had the same items. They have histology, physiology, etc. Are the students satisfied, and neither are the teachers, which when the student first comes in to talk, to verbally state the content of his knowledge, which is a clinical subject? He seems to us, the clinicians, like a confused man who loses focus. You have commission exams for the prevention of corruption, where even teachers can't make it to work 10, 12 hours with students, where candidates see themselves and the professor give up and run, so I guess that's why it takes so many deadlines. You can see that a child can't make a sentence. It lost the first three years of previous schooling a chance to speak because it was hammering tests, like on a quiz, like a driving test, a test. What did we do with it? Did Bologna force us to run tests? No, she said - exams can be done that way and that way. Our deans, the executives, their branches hung out to do it so that it would be as glamorous as possible, more complicated, that the less they had contacts, except in practice, with those kids. No preclinical course is oral in any of Serbia's universities. It's all a test or some kind of pre-examination obligation. Not to mention what practical difficulties this creates and how unrealistic insight into functional knowledge is. Imagine the physiology that you take the test, that the student does not know how to connect you with what the most important basic science from the teacher's portfolio, the minister. There's a lot of responsibility and founders around here somewhere. Where's the possibility that the founder might do something, the state, the government, do something? So, changing acts, changing regulations, changing the role and functions of the dean. It's impossible for the dean to have the fate of money, the fate of the facility, the fate of the equipment, and not to be asked about its appointment and its quality, that lobbys and circles, choosing all the certificates in the Senate, and then that's the end of the story. I guess, if the state chooses the principal of the primary school, in a direct or indirect way, and here it was once an indirect way, but it's a wider circle. Now there's a narrow circle for the dean's election, you can't be unless you're mentoring etc. Come on, they weren't teachers once, so we pushed it out to be teachers. Now you have to be a mentor with so many and so many papers. Like, those are NSVO recommendations. Some respect recommendations, some don't. In some universities, you'd rather have the criteria to be an academic somewhere than at another university that I think has more specific weight and greater rating in Serbia. Looks like the rating's being created by getting as many students as possible to get by to get as high as possible. That's the easiest. The easiest thing to do is make Bologna efficient. I call bologna this reform, not bologna as an idea. I don't call it a bologna. Best just give it to the students – it's deductible from the professor's salary if you have a pass less than 80%, which you care about. But today, and there's no NSVO about telling us, no, his commission isn't doing it, it's chasing accreditation, and it's paying well. Well, whether the credentials are on the CD or printed, so whether it's clear or not. He doesn't look at anything but these forms, norms, standards. Squeak, it's over, accredited. Did anyone or failed to check if these things were all set? It's hard to conclude here. These are places where the state has to wonder. What law must give a chance to the minister and his bodies, which he powers, commissions, inspections, to enter into the life of the university and to assess the efficiency of study, quality. Of course, you will easily establish such an order, where passability is high. Today, unfortunately, we learn that from the Belgrade University's information, it is such that it definitely ends at around 20 per cent or something. If I didn't just say it by heart, since I've recorded how much it means, that passability is about 20% of the senior students, as I understand it. Here, 14 has graduated in due time. These data were compared by some other researchers with a prebolonic period, where the percentage of cancellations were, say 45%, 50%-55% graduated. Now, 20% of the majority, transit 14th. And what are these others? They're the ones we move the criteria to move on. Then the system is ineffective. We move them by criteria, and it can be more effective if we break the criteria, and why does 14% of teachers have a pass less than 30%? Because we got many teachers by unpacking large objects to a much smaller, increased number of courses in college from 30 or 25 to 40 or 50. They all took their point, their time. They wanted to get it. Your time, your point, even the number of pages. Be careful, it's horrible. Number of Pages... (President: Please finish your thought, as time is spent.) )......................................................................................................... Here, thank you. So, obviously, Mr. Minister, we support your intention to seduce this order, and we see that you are headed in that direction. Finally, it is also an articulated desire for Serbian citizens in the elections, not to be left without any change and attempt to change, whether you will call it reform or not, in this important sector that has been significantly missed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23981	Since no more authorised representatives have been reported, we are moving on to the list of speakers. According to the established order, Zika Gojkovic is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23982	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, SPO and DHS welcomes the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Since the academic year has already begun in the best interests of students, the sooner we adopt these proposed amendments, in order to get students to enter school 2013/2014 as soon as possible. A year and in peace continued with your duties. For that reason, I will try to be brief and clear. The Higher Education Act, which was adopted in 2005, following our country's accession to the Bologna Process, begins reforming our country's higher education system. After the adoption of this law, a reform is expected, among other things, to contribute to the efficiency of education and to better quality higher education. As is normal, after he started to apply the Law on Higher Education, every time shortcomings in the application of Bologna were observed, amendments and additions of the Law on Higher Education were made. It simply became a rule in this home. Among the changes and additions ahead of us, the most important changes are certainly a reduction in the number of points needed to finance from the budget from 50 to 48 and six test deadlines instead of five, as has already been said several times. Given that most of the Faculty of Bologna applies in its own way, it is necessary that at least in some ways go out to meet students. The financial effect of this change is also important because in this way a greater number of students can be educated on the burden of the state and we do not come into a situation that only those who have money can school. There is a very important fact that students who come from the interior of Belgrade are almost impossible to study without having financial resources for monthly expenses worth 50,000 dinars, which is, you must admit, the privilege of a very small number of people. The prices of state universities are slowly leveled with prices in private colleges that are high, and when the costs of staying for students who are not from Belgrade are added, it means that any shift should be supported, even the smallest in facilitating the position of students. What is at least important for our parliamentary group is that it is a good thing that the conditional entry of the year will be approved. It will be approved that colleges can enroll students under these conditions although the law has not yet been formally voted in the Assembly, although I believe Wednesday with a vast majority of these laws we will vote on. Otherwise, part of the students would be denied other benefits, such as dieting students, housing in the home and others. This bill, a proposal to amend and supplement the law that we are talking about today is logical and realistic because a real reform has not yet been carried out that would justify reducing the test deadlines and increasing the points necessary for the budgetary study, and we are just about to have not a small job to question students' burdens, student programme reforms, teaching content of textbooks and other extremely important things for higher education institutions and of course for students. I believe that the government and the competent ministry at the head of you, Mr. Minister, will have the understanding and increase the 30 percent scholarships received by those with an average of 9 and higher grades. Our parliamentary group believes that this is realistic at this point, given that some other costs have already been collected for this percentage, such as homes and the nutrition of the students themselves. As I believe and realistically, we can expect a more comprehensive law on higher education. The fact is that in the next few days we will have more work to do for the university administration, but no one will be damaged as it has been the case so far and I think it is most important at this point in the year 2013 and 2014 for students. Today, we are discussing a bill on amendments to the Law on Higher Education in a situation where we still have an outdated and inefficient education system, which the previous Minister Obradovic himself admitted on several occasions. We discuss when, many will say, education reform didn't start, when there was a lot of money spent in this area, when years and years were spent on empty stories at even more empty public debates, when we have years behind us in which a lack of system solution will often be caused by the tightness of parents and students and even the teachers themselves. Our reality at this point points to, apart from the fact that studying in Belgrade requires about 50,000 dinars, and I don't think that it's the costs that students could be misbehaved in those months, but it's a figure that's more than average for student life, that guilt is constantly being brought down by the ministry and the government in recent years at higher education institutions and that the state, when it was most needed by those higher education institutions, was very often passive. As some of my predecessors have said, I think Mr. Chikiriz said, we don't even have a professor's database. Several years ago, Belgrade University dropped out of the 500 most successful universities. We're back on that list, but I think it's a devastating fact that something like that happened. The defeating data is that about 50% of the population has completed only primary or elementary school in our country. There's another one, and as far as the government and the ministries are concerned, and I hope that it will change, that the science section so far has been engaged solely for personal marketing and that the priority has been exclusively personal marketing... (President: Mr Gojkovic, time is spent. Can I finish? I've got two more three sentences. This is just one way to motivate students to complete their studies as soon as possible, and changing the laws we are talking about today will in no way adversely affect the quality of knowledge young people will gain during their studies. Mr. Minister, over the past 20 years, this country has left several tens of thousands of young and educated people. I don't think we've stopped this drain of young and smart people today, and I'm asking you, as are most of my colleagues and the people who escorted this thing, and they haven't escaped from this country to be a minister who won't be the mere observer of everything that's been going on in our country so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23983	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23984	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs, they are in front of us, I really don't know the number of people who know what, amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Mr. Minister, I know you're not the name Obradovic, but other than your last name that's different, everything else remains completely in the manner of the former minister. Laws before MPs come at 12.05, not at five to 12.00, at 12.05. It has not been in October for the last few years without amendments to the Law on Higher Education and especially when the school academic year begins. That's when change and complements are brought before us, then in a really big grip, sometimes when strikes of students go a lot, we talk about it, then we divide into patriots, those who support what is proposed, and those who are not patriots, because they are serious, so they want to talk about it seriously. However, the news now is that the ruling majority did not want this law to be put on the agenda when this session opened on Tuesday, but delayed it for another day, so we are seven days behind that starting Tuesday. The patience of 30,000 students who couldn't enroll a year, their parents, times two, that's about 90,000 people were anxious because someone didn't want to press the key and vote on it. There was a twist, a strange twist I'd say, I didn't see the arguments, but okay. I don't like it, I don't think you're answering as a minister right now to start something that doesn't comply with the law. The parole is something you've come up with to overcome the current problem, but it's not something you should start your ministerial career with. Let me see what that news is that changes and complements in the short law you're proposing. Two groups, one is really part of the technical changes that, however, were the previous changes in the same way, only voted. Someone here has said -- parliament has shown great seriousness in the vote of the previous law. I would say that he has shown great no seriousness, because all of this we now have to vote on has been pointed out by MPs from the opposition, but not because we are very wise and smart, but that's why we read the analysis and follow up on the state reports and on the movement of something called higher education. So the second part is what you're undermining is that the Academy of Professional Studies of National Security, one of which has nothing to do with each other, except that you condition that we vote together on all of this, so that those people who, one of the parliamentary groups, are against one piece, and the other part of this student package, have to vote for the establishment of one of these vocational schools. The first part, you say, you bring down the number of points from 50 to 48 for the year. In your explanation, you say it's because of the economic crisis and you say it's because of the removal of the perceived problems. Since there are a lot of associates sitting next to you that Minister Obradovic brought here -- I ask you, could these perceived problems have been seen a few months ago, when these changes were ahead of us? Did they suggest that the minister should change that? That's what I'm saying because in the hair of the same amendment, like what you're proposing now, they were on the agenda of that session. The MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia are exactly what you are proposing today, then. I remember the discussion of some who now must obviously vote on it and say it's malignancy because we point out that. I have to say, I apologize for being right. I have to tell you why we were right. Because we followed the analysis very seriously and very seriously then we could know that, let's say, colleges didn't do their part of the job when it came to the Bologna Process, that the textbooks weren't adjusted, that the teaching process didn't take place the way it was intended and gave the possibility to Bologna. So from all of that, we could conclude that the students won't be guilty, but they won't be able to score 50 points, which is a natural threshold to slowly climb the level of knowledge. Then it was clear to be seen, I don't know why we didn't all accept, let's just say, our amendments. What has this proposal been run by now? Did you just read such an analysis? Have you analyzed the state it is at the moment. I don't think that was the case. So, the analysis is missing, the very serious work on that part is missing, and you, after all, said that when you talked about it here today, explained your proposal. The floating strike of students is something that has defined you. I don't think that's a good way to go. We seriously have to deal with this subject, see seriously where we are right now, have a cross-section and see what we need to do. If the only thing MPs need to vote on is whether or not we're going to get 48 points, so we're going to get up to 50, so when you get up to 50, we're going to go back to 48 again, then that's the completely wrong way. Let's see where we are, let's agree together what a strategy is, let's vote together on something we should do, to make a step and really go in the right direction. Interestingly, when I spoke about it, last time, Minister Obradovic defended his position 50 points, he said he had agreed with student organisations. What now? The student organizations seem to be unaware of what they've agreed on. Very strange. The second thing you're offering us is the number of deadlines for passing exams, at five, you're still counting, now we need to get those deadlines up to six. We're completely in agreement, we've submitted the same amendment in our hair. We even offered that the number of deadlines would be between four and six and that colleges would take care of their own acts as to how they would behave. You didn't accept. The ministry didn't accept it, most of them didn't accept it, the same majority who today advocates it's natural. Do students know that four deadlines await them next year under the law? When are we gonna talk about this? Next October? I don't think that's a good approach and we need to seriously open all the cards. No one here is against you, nor is it for you, but here we are seriously talking about one process, one for the country's very important thing. If we don't see how important education is for the state here, I don't think the government will take care of it. You're saying that by giving you six deadlines, you increase study efficiency. Studies say that this is vice-proportional, but since all those previous conditions and colleges have not met, neither have the teachers met, nor the textbooks are not adjusted, then it is natural to give them the opportunity to have six deadlines and thus try to restore the efficiency of the system. We're throwing a ball at them again, even though it's not right. Minister Obradovic claimed otherwise. You're saying in your explanation that you want to include students as partners in the area of higher education. That's great. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports you there. We really think that students are serious people you can talk to about the process they're partners in, and they want to be partners, but I don't see how you're going to try to do that, if they already know they can't plan, God forbid, by the next October, by the next beginning of the year. If they can't plan not to know what's going to happen to them in January, you're announcing a new amendment to the law. So today they can't plan on how they're going to start their year and how they're going to have their time and how they're going to invest in that year. Secondly, you're talking about the division of liability of law and obligation. Who's taking responsibility, who's right, who's bound by it? I don't see, the way we did here today, that someone would share responsibility. No, the ball just fell so down that the students were responsible because they didn't accept all the rules of the game imposed on them by the law, and the law was made so that they really couldn't accept it. Here's what happened. The next part of the law refers to the Academy of Professional Studies. It's a very interesting game with numbers to look at. You're saying 30 students per year at budget cost will be trained for the profession of a national security professional. In parallel with this, we have 2,200 students at the Faculty of Security. What are we going to do with them, what are they going to represent in this set of huge numbers that can never be hired? Do we have any idea how much Serbia needs national security experts? What kind of experts are they supposed to be? What I'm particularly interested in is what's gonna happen to those who in five years' time... Are we going to meet that 150-species quota, then we're going to shut down college for six years? I don't think that's serious. I wonder how this will affect the pockets of Serbian citizens? How will they, how will they have to pay? This year, when something actually exists, works, and you have to legalize it, it'll cost 35 million dinars next year 40 million dinars. There's no projection of what's going to happen in five years. It'll cost them the devil and a half, to be absolutely clear. We don't know who's gonna teach. You say - government employees. I don't think that's exactly how it's gonna work, because you identify it with the police and the military. On the one hand, it won't be legal, but let's see how you do it. Then, a joint diploma. What's a joint diploma, that's what I'd like to find out? In the end, it's not clear to me whether it's because of the ambition of a few people dealing with security, who don't have academic titles and who would like to have them respected, to start a school that will cost a lot, to educate people who won't have a place to work, and could find a much more elegant solution, to, say, start academic studies in one of the security colleges that will educate them in that direction. That would be cheaper, more appropriate and much simpler for our life system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23985	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23986	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to conclude that today we are having a very constructive debate, although I must note that frequent amendments to the Law on Higher Education and that they only speak of the need for essential reforms and that we, in this way alone, in frequent amendments to this law, are putting out the fire, we are putting out the fire, and we are not solving the essential issues. The fact that every year we resort to changes in the mandatory number of points means that colleges have not adapted their title plan and programme to the law, i.e. Bologna. Bologna is asking us to cut deadlines and raise points, and we're still not out of 48 points. Yes, I support the students' demands and I agree with you, for a reason, that because of the economic situation in which Serbia is located, we met students' demands, but again, on the other hand, I ask you – how are we going to get to 60 points and cut deadlines, when we have no shifts for years? However, the key issue of higher education reform is quality, not the amount of knowledge and only such knowledge will be recognised in the labour market, and only so can the labour market be forced to require quality personnel. Mr Minister, we have an education strategy by 2020, but we do not have a strategy clearly defined – what personnel we need in the future. It's an example of this year's enrolment in high school. We had a large number of high school students who enrolled in high school, economics, medical schools, and high schools are being shut down, and we lack craftsmanship. It is estimated that Serbia lacks three and a half thousand firefighters, we have no carpenters, we have no army. That's a big problem. So we need the plan of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, by which, in accordance with the needs of the economy and the public sector, we will enter a number of students and students, and where we do not need to reduce the number needed. Don't get me wrong, I believe this is all easy to say, and it's very hard to do, but we're here to help you with our constructive proposals, to try to get the situation back to normal as soon as possible, not to just be in a situation where we have some technical changes every year, but to have fundamental changes. Of course, changes in education and education reform are closely linked to economic development. I'm also thinking that we can't catch up with the general trend and the changes that happen in society. The technological development is so dynamic, I'm going to name only one reception from the United States. Ten of the most wanted top professions in 2004, in 2010 do not appear at all as the professions sought. So, economics, science and technology, regardless of the economic crisis, are still developing at a dizzy rate, that we need to move forward with these changes and have strategic plans. I'll give you an example from our space. Forty percent of businessmen stress serious difficulties in improving their production technology due to lack of skills for the unemployed. We have 6% of highly educated people. According to the strategy I mentioned, by 2020 we should have about 20% of highly educated people. The average in Europe is about 30% to 35%, in the United States 50%, in Japan 60%. But in fact, it is a key question – how much we need academically educated citizens and what profiles. I also think it is very important, yet at the beginning of the term of office, to define two key steps in the next period. The first – what profiles and professions are needed to enable the state and society to function effectively, and the second, very important also – to educate in fact effective education of such professions and to provide society with quality and qualified staff. I cannot mention this opportunity without mentioning the information that you and your associates have and how well known we have 250,000 people who sign our thumbs, that we have over a million people who have not finished primary school, although basic education is mandatory for a long number of decades in our country and that we belong to the most illiterate people in Europe with the lowest budget for education and science. I think this is a balance that neither Vuk Karadzic nor Dositej Obradovic would forgive us. It is incomprehensible that we are one of the poorest countries in Europe, and that we still do not recognize and that the outcome of the crisis is in quality education. When I say that the exit from the crisis is in quality education, then I think it is very important that of that little budget that the Ministry of Education has, if at all possible, an additional part of the funds is allocated, or from that budget, to perfect teachers. Because I don't think a teacher's job is a profession, it's a mission. The only quality teaching chamber, along with good and adapted curricula and programmes, is a prerequisite for good education. I believe that you, Mr. Minister, are quite clear what our professional public thinks about our quality of education, or about the lack of education, and I will bring it to you here. So, experts, pedagogues, my fellow psychologists from Serbia believe that the greatest lack of education is the distance from everyday life, anachron access to teaching programmes, the overload of students and students of data, the lack of functional knowledge and, as I mentioned in several examples, the cassation for scientific and technical achievements. I wanted this opportunity to draw your attention to two major problems facing our graduate academics, first of all. The first is that there is no single rule for all high school institutions that will be binding and based on which universities in Serbia will issue foreign language diplomas, primarily in English. Now we have, for example, that the University of Novi Sad issues diplomas by its own rules, some don't betray them, and most of all there are those who, at the request of students, issue only certificates of the number of exams passed. So I believe you're seeing a problem in this area. It's only solved by one rule that will be binding to all our universities. I can't help but mention it, and I mentioned it several times last year to the previous Minister Obradovic, and today my colleagues also pointed out this, the problem of nostrification of diplomas. It is unacceptable to wait a year for a diploma to nostrification, to cost a thousand or a thousand and a few euros, and to nostrify Croatia's diplomas in two months and cost 40 euros. We now have the absurdity that your colleague Minister Krstic is working with a high school. As for the introduction of national security in terms of higher education institutions, unlike my colleagues, I am for full professionalization and police personnel and military personnel. I think if that education is high-quality at that higher school facility, it will only improve the work of these services. So New Serbia's MPs will support this law in the voting day, and I expect all the constructive proposals that we had today to consider and that we are very soon seeing each other here in parliament with solutions that you and your associates will propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23987	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23988	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a year ago, when the Higher Education Act was passed, here in this place, it was about cutting points (ESPB) for students and increasing deadlines, as they were looking for. The Democratic Party of Serbia has advocated this. We've heard from my colleagues that the amendments were handed over and it was going to be a year, we don't know for what reasons, a year that students and their families spent in frustrations and in anxiety, to talk to me again after a year about cutting points, so that students could enroll in the budget. Students in our country Serbia, unfortunately, share their parents' very difficult fate. Parents, especially those from the interior, half-starved, overindulgent in heating and winter coats, send their children to the studios. Kids have to do all kinds of jobs around here, which aren't exactly decent or worthy of any student, but they do. So they can't really meet all these conditions that are required of them. Of course, when we talk about reducing the number of points to 48 and increasing the number of test deadlines to six, we don't think of reducing the criteria and reducing the level of knowledge. It must certainly be respected and it must not be given up. What should be facilitated by this law is just the pace of passing exams. However, for you, Mr. Minister, as well as for your team, as well as for universities, there is still a great deal to do about reviewing student burdens, study programme reforms, teaching content and textbooks. But let's go back to this number of points and the number of deadlines. According to "Bolonja", which was adopted in 2005, the conditions for the entry of the financial year were that there were three deadlines and there should be 60 points. To remind the citizens of Serbia and here my colleagues that the concrete measures under the Bologna Process were four. One is the introduction of a European credit transfer system, which was the so-called the famous 60 points, the adoption of a new study structure, which consists of three cycles, the promotion of student mobility and teachers and the adoption of a parallel diploma system. In order for these three conditions, the second, third and fourth terms, to be realized at all, this first condition, that is, this number of points of 60. I repeat, the DSS has advocated a decrease in the number of points, but we are warning that this is no longer "Bologna". We can say – yes, this is "Bolonja" - Serbian style, this is the Serbian style "Bolonja", but it is not "Bolonja" anymore. I'm just afraid, and from this place I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, will it be possible for a talented child, a talented student or a student, after a second year of college in Belgrade, to go and continue her studies in Milan or London? I just want the students to know if they can do it, whether those diplomas they get will be recognised later abroad. Of course, I would also ask the question – what has the government been waiting for a year for this topic to be put on the agenda? As far as I know from my fellow professors, and also from students, there's chaos in college just because of these parole papers. The students are supposed to be able to sign up as a budget. However, they will have to waste their time in order once more and wait to enroll. Also, I want to ask if this law, if adopted, will be applied to the University of Pristina, which is now based in Kosovo Mitrovica, when and if local elections in Kosovo and Metohija are held and when so-called. Community of Serb municipalities? As for this other topic, which somehow broke through with this number of points that are very interesting to everyone and to the general public, this position of 2nd on the professional national security engineer, i.e. the establishment of a security academy within the BIA, has also escaped. That would be Bia's school for world spies. I just wonder if the best students will receive the "Alexa Žunic" award? I just want to say that our country is getting smaller, and the security guard is getting bigger. The Democratic Party of Serbia is determined against this other matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23989	The word has Minister Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23990	Dear MPs, colleague Raskovic provoked me as a psychiatrist. I'm sorry I never saw her at her university, but I hope we'll see each other, since I asked the students both in September and October and all previous deadlines. I even had a rule, and even today I have this rule, that all the students who pass the exam in the first year, who are on the Fasper, and as far as I know you're a professor of Fasper, the exam is called physiology, can whenever they think they've learned to come to me to pass, to oppose the management of the university. That opposition is a matter of our agreement and it's being realized. I'm talking to you as a man who's been at university for over 35 years and who at no time can accuse students of something that's not good. If it's not good, then we're both guilty because we didn't agree before it had to be. What's the fact, of course, I've examined both the September and October deadline and the medicine, orally both. It's a huge number of students, a huge burden. My commitment is still a university. With a special pie, with special honor, I opened a school year at the University of Pristina, with a temporary headquarters in Kosovo, Mitrovica, and I am convinced that this is still our university. They're working on our plans and programs. Fortunately and well, when I shared the keys in the newly opened home, the first student who got the key was a student from Bar, unfortunately we are no longer a common state, but is from Bar. First student, chosen candidate by accident. Those studies, I still think they're our studies until someone tells me it's different. But expecting someone from our country to say that these people who study there have a tradition. I even have to boast that the dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Kosovo Mitrovica has proposed a phenomenal idea of how to improve the quality of the study, which is to start medical studies at the Faculty of Medicine in Kosovo Mitrovica on campus. That's a great idea. That idea he can realize there. Why? Because students and teachers have a strong chance of being tied to each other. They've been seeing each other for 24 hours, at least 18 hours together. He's going to open up the gyms, amphitheaters and those professors and students instead of seeing each other on those two streets, you know that very well, walking there or sitting in cafes, let them spend that time in amphitheaters and gyms, and here's a better quality for us. Here's what I was talking about earlier, sharing joint obligations, responsibilities and rights. Our obligations, rights and responsibilities are to have quality studies. We can do it. We can. In what way? If we do what they do in the West, which is that when a college student doesn't go to college, instead of enrolling in a student program and signing with the university or the college owner, he signs a contract that clearly defines the rights and obligations. The rights and obligations of a student, the rights and obligations of a university teacher. If the studies are not successful, who is responsible? Either the student has not fulfilled his obligations or the teacher, or the university has failed to fulfil its obligations. So let's start a little action in this direction, run this wheel of momentum that's going slower and slower at the university. I think we can do that. A large number or a large number of university teachers are honest and committed to their work, the highest number. The biggest number of students who come here are great kids, great students. We can't forget, we're going to get into a situation where this year he enrolled in a high school of 71,000 students. The capacity of the state university is 60,000 students. So, in four years, we're going to have a bigger one at state universities, a bigger number of places than the offer. And where's our chance? Going out to the market, to the world market. And we can only go out to the world market if we provide quality studies. We have conditions for that. For the first time in my life, there is one foundation from a group of rich countries that offers us several tens of thousands of students that we are studying. What does it represent? It's a first confession. It presents a huge challenge for our university and for our education to accept it. I think we can, if we prepare adequately for these studies to be in Serbian or Serbian. The Faculty of Philology must prepare itself, educate them for a year and give future students, or the Faculty of Philology to educate these students, prepare them for studies, or educate them in English. But we also have English studies to define. We can't have two parallel studies in colleges. Studies in English and studies in Serbian, which differ in passing. I'm afraid today we don't mention that we're not even looking for 60 points in English schools. Why aren't we even looking for 60 points? Well, they have 80 points. So, I'm trying to get exams to make university classes more flexible. To make the exams more flexible while maintaining the regular teaching process. Also, election class. Election classes have become a huge burden for a regular student program. And we have to take care of that. Next, it'll all work out, I'm sure if we can get the college categorized as well. The school's categorization will solve a number of problems. Then the best students will go there with an evaluation of the categorization, and the university, which is the first on the ranking list category in the same group, will have the highest demand, and the advantage in hiring such candidates is to be the highest. That's what we have to do. It exists in the world. Why don't we apply that? Why do we now make the colleges of the same group have unauthorized large differences in the curriculum and the program, and they are educated to do the same? Professor Poscurica brought me a little class paper in which a first-year course of medicine was heard in five schools, the same class at the second-year or third-year university. These are huge differences. Or, at the same college where there are five educational profiles, there are no dots between these educational profiles. Are these five different colleges, which means a special university or is it one college that can have five different profiles but what are they different about? In a group of electoral subjects working in a developed world. I'm telling you what I think we should do. My commitment for the past month is a maximum engagement to introduce new profiles, that colleges and high schools are employed to propose introducing new profiles. We got a little out of our wits about it. They traded, triggered the inert. In this regard, the state allowed and increased the number of budgetary students. Nine hundred students joined more in the field of information. Whether it's at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering or at another university, that's another thing, what's all over Serbia. But she's reduced the number of college students whose pass-by is late in employment. Why don't we just keep going on about it. I consider today's discussion not as a criticism, but as a support or stimulant to make it a common goal for us to improve education. Education isn't as bad as we say. Education can be much, much better. He deserves to be better. Hopes must not be let down and those who enroll both parents and us who educate them but children, now the adult 19-year-olds who come to the university must know in advance what they are entering, must be introduced, and what will happen after the study is completed. It's not about enrollment of colleges and college graduation, it's about enrollment of colleges that will give him the proper economic status. Either employment or continuing schooling either through academic studies, specialist academic studies or through doctoral studies. This is, as my associates have informed me, the fourth amendment to the law. What I did first in 12 years. Nostriction issues have also been raised. The procedure was initiated and under a proposal to amend the law, the process of recognition of the diploma will be reduced to a maximum of 60 days. With one part of it, which is students who have completed their studies at universities abroad if they want to get a job, these diplomas on the proposal should be nostrified within 60 days within the ministry, and those who want academic advancement, the continuation of academic studies at the university, at one of the universities to do so at their home university. So he wants to enroll in doctoral studies at the Medical School to nostrifice a degree previously acquired abroad at that medical school. I apologize for speaking emotionally, but really, if someone spends 35 years at the university, I think it's something that represents a crown career, it can contribute and transfer that knowledge from university to education. By getting involved in all forms of teaching, and last school year and this school year, I think I know a lot of, a lot of drawbacks, I know how it can be fixed, we can do it together, make it better, because again, education deserves it. Education is an investment. If we invest in the good now, we need to know that it will come back to us as good as we are and as we expect it to be. Thank you. As for tuition, I am sorry that this segment is not regulated by the law and the influence of the state. That's what colleges should decide. Hard hearts agree with Professor Poskurico, in many acts even at the same university we do not have the same rules, they are not the same tuition, they are not the same rules of choice for teachers and associates, but individual colleges change the group of colleges. Why? Because in one group that belongs to them biologically, they can't get past and be elected to the same university. We need to even these rules, so-called. horizontal and vertical passing. Now we don't have any horizontal passages, because we don't have unity in any college. Someone mentioned that there was a difference between departments at the same university. If I were to add that there are differences at the same university, and if there's a difference between the universities of the same state, then let's do it together, if we have a common interest. And with this, we can enter the European system of education. Let's each of us get engaged. I am not boasting, but on 27 August this year, the European Community accredited a programme that I have proposed, which I am leading at the Faculty of Medicine in Belgrade, a postgraduate specialist course or a set of postgraduate education has been accredited at the level of the European Community and the students, which we are talking about right now, was the president of this European Committee on Education, to build this European school within the framework of the Medical Faculty. That's possible, but if we stand up for it. I'm ready to enter the challenge. That's why I came here to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23991	Thank you. Sanda Raskovic Ivić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23992	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think you've all cheered us up here with this announcement that it's going to take 60 days to nostrification, so here, one of the first ones is going to be our finance minister who won't be a high school kid anymore, but also has a college degree. I'd like to say that you've actually told us here how much you love your profession and how much you're committed to it and it's really undeniable, I know it very well, because some of the days, in 1995, we worked together and worked together on a project where I really knew your commitment to the profession and I had the opportunity to see it. I also liked what you said about the university's categorization. It's a newspaper and it's an extraordinary thing. That, in my opinion, is actually one criticism of your predecessor. But what I haven't heard the answer to is about the University of Kosovo Mitrovica, because you said - I wasn't told. And what if someone tells you and whose seal then after 3 November, when the Serb community of municipalities or communities of Serb municipalities is formed, they will carry a diplomat of the university? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23993	Thank you. Minister Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23994	I'm sorry we didn't understand each other, but the students wrote according to our law, the indexes are ours, the seal is ours, and I'm convinced they'll finish colleges according to our law. The University of Kosovo Mitrovica, or University of Pristina, with its temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica, is part of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia and is fully equal to other universities. That's what I can say for sure, it's my duty, it's my duty, and that's how I'm gonna act. I am also using the opportunity to ask what the Rector of the University of Kosovo Mitrovica asked me to pass on, which is to ask all those who are from Kosovo and Metohija, all those who have been employed in the area, that their doors are open, and have teaching calls, have academic and high titles, that they are eagerly expected in Kosovo Mitrovica, that every spare time will be given to students and the benefits of teaching in those universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23995	Thank you. The word is Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23996	We from the DSS hope that the Pristina University, based in Kosovo Mitrovica, will remain a Serbian university, but at the same time we are afraid that certain things will change already next year. I hope in a year, if we see each other in this high house, there won't be any surprises and any other statements. We, Mr. Minister, hold you as a serious and honorable man and hope in you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23997	The People's MP, Neven the Flowering One, has a word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23998	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, at the very beginning of the presentation of this bill, I would like to make a few opening remarks, in order to better understand what we are discussing today. The area of education, science and technological development is one of the strategic areas for the development of one state, because without the ability of the same state to educate and raise quality personnel, there is no progress of this society and that state. There is no progress in society and the state that disrespects people from books, of knowledge, who speak languages, who bring new knowledge and let me share with you the belief that these people are the true elites of this society, they work in silence, they are often not under public attention. Thousands of teachers, teachers, scientists, students who should be the backbone of this society, primarily the backbone of its development. Therefore, the event is of first-class importance when some of the laws in the field of education, science and technological development come into the Assembly, and regardless of what this bill has only four members, this is an opportunity to say some things about our education, and this is an opportunity to enlighten at least these few days while we work both in principle and in the way of amendments being a public focus, which is usually very rarely happening. We should say that education and science in our society have long been in the middle of an economic crisis in which we are almost a quarter of a century, and we are tasked, whether we belong to a position or an opposition, because in this matter there can be no party struggles, it is up to all of us to restore education to the public's focus. That's why everyone here, I don't call this a controversy that had a minister with MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić, I think it's a discussion and I think this discussion is useful for all of us, regardless of who the opposition is again. As far as this particular legislative proposal is concerned, to return to the agenda, I think it's the task of all of us today to primarily explain to citizens, to those who are looking at this, to what it is and what four members are changing something in their lives, to the lives of their children, to the lives of their neighbors, and so on. We should also explain here today to professors and students and the people of the profession to whom this bill applies, what today is and to give them a guarantee, to give them confidence that future issues from higher education will be resolved on an up-to-date basis, and that their objections will be respected, both by teachers and students' observations. Of course, I would talk more about these members of the law that were discussed in public, about which the public was divided, not only professionally, but also the general public, but also about the number of deadlines examined and the number of points needed to register the year on the budget. I don't want to repeat some of the general places that we've already heard from fellow MPs, I'd just like to try to point out what is the essence of the debate on the number of deadlines examined. We've been discussing, often there's only one party's arguments here, one that's for increasing the test deadlines, or the arguments of the other side, that's for reducing the test deadlines. In order to discuss this matter properly, we need to present the arguments of both sides. Who is for the less tested deadlines and for the reduced number of test deadlines? Mostly teachers. Why? What are the professor's arguments? Their arguments that they're overloaded, a little bit, and they're facing some trial deadline where they have to question hundreds of students, and it's not easy, believe me, to question hundreds of students in an objective way so that you don't deny someone. Also, the professor's argument is that in the middle of the test deadlines, in the middle of the semester he suffers classes. So students have an exam period in the middle of the semester and then they don't go to class and students go to exams themselves without being presented material. Finally, students should also be given an opinion. It was the professor's argument. Students, and these are two types of students, it has to be acknowledged, one type of students are them, to call them more advanced, who want to have more test deadlines so they can pass exams faster, to complete their studies and to complete their duties faster and to devote themselves to professional life. On the other hand, we have to mention those poorer students who want more exam deadlines, so they're gambling, so their logic is, I'm going to take the test six times, and I'm going to fall and the seventh time the professor is going to let me go whether I've prepared the material or not, which is nonsens, because the student can't pass the exam until the material he's prescribed is mastered. Finally, it should be said that the world standard in the number of test deadlines between two and four, in the most developed countries, is the university's most developed countries between two and four, no less than two, no more than four. That is what is prescribed, what some MPs said and the original intention of passing a law on higher education. Finally, I would say that for this situation, someone has already mentioned it but it's not worse to repeat, it's not the students, it's not the professors, it's not the university, it's not the university, it's not the higher school area at all. Now I'd like to present a thesis that we haven't had a chance to hear today that this is the wrong situation, that students come from high school without working habits, that kids come to college unprepared. I am pleased that the minister mentioned several times the word - inert, in response to MP Sandi Raskovic Ivic. Our system has an inert that's being transmitted from the lower levels to the highest levels. Even in high school, problems begin, because if someone has no working habits, and high school doesn't stimulate working habits, let's say, a German system of dual secondary education, which forms a man either for work or for studies. So that's the problem with us. And these topics that are being discussed year by year, I agree, we don't repeat ourselves on some chorus, both the number of points and the number of deadlines tested. It's not the high school area's fault, it's not the high-school area for that, the problem is the inert of a system where the staff teaches the problem, so it goes from primary school to high school to college, and it just sits there. Finally, I would like to say a few words about these members who are not so interesting to the public, which was about whether the area of national security needs to be introduced into our higher education system. So far, we've had a defense system through the Military Academy, internal affairs through the Police Academy. We had, let me say, a very successful Faculty of Security who also trained qualified staff, but I don't see why national security wouldn't be in the way of the law in the field of higher education academic studies. All serious states do so, and in the United States, Russia, China, you have higher education institutions that are exclusively dedicated to training those who will deal with national or national security. In conclusion, I would say again, in our education system there is an inert, that it is a good thing that it is located by both the Secretary-General and that problems need to be solved systematically in the future. That makes coffee our primary school depends on what our high school will be like. It depends on what kind of high school it is. We must no longer allow the rusty lecture of the staff where problems are transferred from one area to another, and I hope that we can expect one systematic law and high school education to remove all problems and finally start with reforms from the ground. As my predecessor from the SDPS has said about this, the SDPS will support this bill in the voting day, expecting that reforms in the education sector take place systematically, not in any cosmetic way, and that in the future we remove problems at lower levels, so that they do not reach us at the highest levels, such as the area of higher education that we are discussing today, which should be the crown of the entire education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u23999	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24000	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, it took only a year to accept the LDP amendment that we gave to the past law, but we are used to waiting for our reasonable solution, for our reasonable policies to be adopted as generally accepted. This is a very fun situation, in fact, so much so that all what was the arguments for the adoption of that amendment to the Law on Higher Education are now arguments that this solution should be annulled. And it's also interesting that one of the main arguments in that system, so to speak, is, contradictory, the fact that this is supported by CONUS, is supported by the Student Organization. It's a shame for these two organizations, it's a shame that two of the top two that should deal with the basic principles of education in this way change their attitudes, it's an ethical question and it actually points to a deep moral crisis in our education system. That ethical question is being looked at in many other ways. It is seen in the fact that the question of recognition of diploma, ministry, I know, it wants to do, but resistance comes from universities and colleges. This resistance is not in the interest of knowledge, as many say, but is in the interest of the privileges that they have in colleges by controlling competition that could come from abroad of people who are competent, people who know, who understand what new education is, should prevent them from entering the system and that's why we have this problem with recognising diploma. The fact that our colleges don't recognize Yale's graduation is actually an absolutely national arrogance that I don't know what to call otherwise. The second problem I see is the fact that this change that is now being done does not have as a motive for improving knowledge and the health situation. The motive is completely socio-political. So, as we said by explaining your amendment a year ago, this way falls, by keeping number 48, and then by gradually increasing, you're going to cause a student reaction, it's not prepared properly under the program and the way the teaching is done. You're going to challenge the students' revolt, and now that the students have coughed, they haven't even announced a real protest, the state has been better at trying to calm them down. That'll last until the next October. Because this change of law, it's actually going to happen under a law that involves four lay-downs and 60 points as a criterion. So this change is actually a temporary solution again. I really welcome your idea, Mr. Minister, to make a firm contract, therefore, to prescribe rules of conduct and rules of study that cannot be changed in one educational cycle. The change of this kind actually violates that contract. This contract must therefore be made, this contract must be respected and this contract must be aimed at something that Professor Matijević, who has otherwise worked on the strategy very well defined, he said - the problem of our education system is that he deals with himself, not knowledge, not students, not students, not the quality of knowledge he should provide. The changes in the law are actually dealing with themselves, so colleges and universities and the people who work on them are trying to keep their privileges, so they don't change anything. Our university, I think is one of the most conservative institutions today in our society, and I just don't know how to describe the feeling of impotence that a man has before the inadequacy of those who prepare new generations to prepare them for the time we live in. There was talk today about whether or not there was corruption at the university? What I've been saying now as preventing young educated people from coming from abroad to get involved in teaching at universities is actually a kind of corruption that's going on. I have to say, I'm very surprised, because as far as I know, at least two university professors work at the same time at the Anti-Corruption Agency. I would expect them to be the ones who will try to prevent corruption in the other place they have, where they work, but apparently they have some conflict of interest here that prevents them from doing so. So that question of ethics at our university I think is the essence of this problem and it is spreading throughout society. He's right, Mr. Cvetićan when he says he's being transferred and the staff surrenders, but that staff doesn't end up at the university. She goes all the way from the university. Unpreparedness to work, ignorance of how it works, consent to intricacies, consent to a certain kind of ethical, so to speak of compromises that are absolutely not allowed. It has been said here that our education should prepare our students for the market. I'm going to give a little example, the Department of Health has almost, so a monopoly on all the health services that are given to our society. The same state, the same government has to say, the largest number of students still graduates from state schools, is there an agreement between the Ministry of Health and Medical Colleges, however many there are in Serbia, about what personnel they need? Apparently not. Because at the Employment Bureau you have a large number of doctors who don't have a job and at the same time in the health system you have a huge shortage of some specialists we need, and then some services we don't give and some machines we get don't use, and at the same time some medical students who have finished don't even know which departments are unemployed. So if the state can't prepare for the market it controls, absolutely personnel, then what other market can we talk about? There's a bright example I've recently read. Mr. Rajlic of "Simens" in Subotica, as he received an absolutely unusable fit from high school, agreed with a secondary professional school to introduce the two items they needed and that students who finished those courses would get an automatic job with him. That's a fantastic solution. Did anyone from the Ministry copy it? Did anyone from another professional school copy it? It's not. I asked around, and he didn't. So there is no willingness to approach the entire education system in a much more flexible way and to resolve it for one longer period. We'll vote for the amendment we filed a year ago. That's clear, the LDP will do it. Unfortunately, at the same time, we will vote for the second part of the law imposed, which is very skillfully attached to this one, because it is known that no one will vote against students, so let's not let anyone vote against a national security professional school. The first difference, Mr. Minister, which you can show is that you accept the amendment to delete these two members of the law and come as a special bill before the MPs. Because it's two things that are completely different and we can't vote for half the law and against half the law. So, it's trying in a very skilled way, I guess those who deal with national security know how things are smuggled, so they tried to smuggle it through this law that will surely be accepted. I suppose you're surprised by what you found in the Ministry, which kind of someone was talking about inerts, means a kind of self-respecting thing that's just scary. We don't have a national qualification framework. Why? I've been making that bill and I've been joking about these members about admitting their diploma. That's two members of the law. A total of 359 words. There was a public hearing in March. In public hearing, the students themselves who came from abroad spoke about what was needed and how many problems they were facing. Then we agreed that it was enough for a month and a half to write those 359 words and come immediately before this House and discuss them. Why? Because we knew that we needed fundamental reforms of education to be implemented with the absolute participation of those who were educated in a different system, who understand this relationship between the university and students of mutual obligation and rights. It's not done. That's two things that are the basis of other things. I don't know what the status is now. In an informal conversation, you told me she was paid for the letter. It would have been a disaster if it hadn't been paid because it would have been another sign that we didn't want anyone on the side to objectively assess our education system. I could talk about this a lot more, but I'll leave it to discuss the details. I'm just asking you to seriously consider amendments that are required to delete these two members of the national security professional school because I think it is, against the interest of the education system right now, because it's a new cost. I am very interested, and I would like to receive this information, which is the position of the Ministry of Finance after the opening of this new educational institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24001	The word has a People's MP, Neven the Flowering, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24002	I am reporting that I have mentioned it is not a replica because so far, the course of the discussion has been such that we have not had a debate between the MPs, or even between the minister and the MPs, but we have all somehow participated constructively in this discussion, which should seem to be when the law is in the field of education, science and technological development on the agenda. I'd take advantage of the opportunity to relate to my colleague Miljenko Derret, because I don't think it matters who the position is, who the opposition is when we discuss this. He used one word that I think is crucial. That's flexibility. This staff carried from primary school to high school, from high school to university, is carried very often because the system is rotten. Let's start now, take the opportunity, the problem so-called. Wolf's diploma. It was public, and it was discussed in public. So it's one inherited institute that if children are now decorated with a degree, and that educational institute is causing bad consequences, because very often parents put pressure on teachers that if a child has a few fours or threes, they round the fives. So it's something that doesn't produce any good consequence. On the other hand, here's to keeping myself on this particular case, giving kids unrealistic expectations. The so-called wolves are lurking that everything will be easier for them. Well, of course it's not easier for them. What my colleague Derrett said, I think the Ministry might also consider that some old institutes in our education, such as that Wolf's degree or anything that was inherited, and it doesn't produce any useful effect in the 21st century, we might even be able to examine the criteria for those Wolf's diplomas, so that we don't have 60% of the wolves, which is impossible, as we have so many students that, retailer, we won't have kids from high school to sign up to fill all the places. That's it, I wouldn't owe you any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24003	Thank you. People's MP Miljenko Deretta, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24004	We on the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development very often have a high degree of consent and there is very little evidence of who the opposition is, and who the position is because people from that profession really speak. The differences occur the moment we meet in this room and when you vote. So, what you voted against last year, you're going to vote for it now because at this point, let me put it this way, it's still winning some sense and some interest that's common. I know it's almost impossible in our society to reach any consensus. It would be nice for the issue of education and education reform to be a topic that we can really reach a consensus that it is a priority, that it is necessary to be modern, to be flexible, and to be one solution that is not the subject of political struggle, but is the subject of a reasonable reflection of the future and a reasonable reflection of the interests of generations that should be educated in a different time and for a different situation. So, you can't talk about Vuk's degree as something that shows the students' knowledge because Vuk's diploma has also become a means that provides a different status of an educational worker and a school and depends on the number of wolves, in fact, on the position of the school. That's the moment that Wolf's diploma lost its meaning. The moment it really doesn't help the student, but, first of all, it's the interest of teachers and schools as such, as institutions, it's unthinkable. I need to find out, I'm only using this because Mr. Cvetićan mentioned it, one new reason why Vuk's diploma is given, say, digital literacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24005	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24006	I'm not mentioned, it's true, but I just think if we talk seriously right now and if we really think we're working in the interest of education and at all every law that's in front of parliamentarians, that we should talk with different arguments and face each other. It's a story about the senselessness of the Wolf's degree, as one of the things we all agree on or disagree on. I don't think she's in her own right, and in any case, she doesn't need to bring children, who are really trying, into a position to take them away, and that as a motive for trying against those who get it very easily. So it's not the children's fault, it's not the parents' fault. It's the law's fault and, above all, we adults, meaning teachers, people in the process, who are going to take a line of less resistance. We're the ones who came up with it, actually tried to unthink it. Why do parents put pressure on teachers, and why do teachers put pressure on each other later to fix it on the bigger ones and the like? Well, because these wolves really have a lot more chances of getting into college with less effort than some other kids who have fewer points at the start. So they're in a position that is privileged to others and we're reopening the story of what our quality of education is. It's a central story as far as I'm concerned, it's not a matter of diploma. What's our quality of education? Is there behind the quality of education the value of a wolf's degree, whether he should be or not? We all admit when we say this that the quality of education is not good for us, that we are not satisfied with that quality. Let's deal with him, let's not have any consequences. It's not about Vuk's diploma, as far as I'm concerned. For me, the quality of education is lower year after year. It's a problem and a problem with the PISA tests, which we'll probably open sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24007	Thank you. The word has Minister Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24008	Dear President, honourable Members, thank you for your constructive and, above all, well-intentioned discussions. Thank you for extending the discussion, because the university is the top of our education. All that's going on at the university is thanks to what's good, thanks to previous education, and to a large and significant extent is the result of poor education. My commitment and the commitment of my associates is to make that system available before university education, that the primary school has its own goal, not that it is a burden for parents and children, as well as for their teachers, or teachers, and to see what they learn in those bags that they can't carry, what it is to them. I have daily memos from the parents they're looking for – stop this, stop this, stop this. We have to engage in parallel schooling. Our children teach us at school and our children teach us with the help of teachers at home. Well, we didn't do it, and I don't think we're handicapped because we didn't go to double or double elementary school, which we didn't go double or double to high school. We need to make this school look unburdened for students, unopposed in financial terms, and in any other sense for parents, without resulting in quality and usable knowledge. In elementary school usable for high school, and with knowledge from high school that you can get a job, if it's a crafts or a high school or use it in college. Someone mentioned Germany. A large German education system has reduced the number of vocational schools at the expense of high school, increased the number of high school schools and thus focused consciously on the third highest level of education. I think that our mutual assistance today really see this discussion as one discussion of friends, whose common interest is that our education, science and technological development be better, better quality, and that we are satisfied. I thank you. I won't abuse anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24009	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24010	Thank you. Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must begin by agreeing that in the past few hours, when it comes to the proposed amendments and additions of the Higher Education Act, we have had a very good, constructive, and, I would say, positive debate. And it's perfectly logical and normal, since we all have one common goal, which is to improve the existing education system in Serbia. As far as we're concerned, as far as the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs' Club is concerned, we feel that education should and must be the priority of every society. The country is responsible for education. It is the state that provides and it is the state that regulates this extremely important and significant system. When it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which we will talk about today and the next days, it appears to be, by the number of members, small changes, but I would say that these changes have exceptional significance and importance. Mr. Minister, as you said at the beginning of your presentation, the very fact that we are actually talking today about something that is the attitude of 30,000 students speaks of sufficient importance and importance. It is true, by adopting the proposed amendments and by supplementing the Law on Higher Education of Mines, we make it kind of easier for students. We create the possibility of more effective and efficient study. We put the centre and center of student interest, which is very important and very important. But, on the other hand, through the proposed changes and additions, I would say that we contribute to progress, contribute to the upgrade and improvement of the existing higher education system in Serbia. Education as a whole, and above all high education, I would say it is an extremely important and important social mission, especially for countries that tend to be developed, especially for countries and countries that are in the transition process. The prerequisite for economic and social development is that one country has a higher number of highly educated, qualified, professional and competent people. I would agree, exactly, in 2005, the adoption of the Law on Higher Education created a new basis, the basis of a new system of higher education in Serbia, and thus our system became part of a European, compatible with the European system and when it comes to organisation and when it comes to the objectives of higher education and when it comes to organising this activity within higher education institutions. When it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, they represent, in some sense, a qualitative shift both in terms and in the context that the Resort Ministry, together with the university community, with students, has seen the effects and analysed the effects of the reforms so far in the area of higher education. You yourself said that there was a quality public debate and that we were just expecting the next amendments to the Higher Education Act. As regards the proposed amendments and additions, only the necessary changes are proposed at this time to improve the existing system. As I said, by adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, there will be a possibility of more effective and effective study, but on the other hand, what is most important to us, students will be at the centre and at the centre of interest. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education represent one step in the realisation of education policy, certain objectives of the education policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I think of the goal of having far more educated, far more professional, quality, competent personnel from different areas in Serbia. We will certainly achieve this and that we will be able to realise this goal with the changes we have proposed, more effective, more efficient study, more passability of students, this will enable and increase the number of highly educated people in Serbia. The proposed changes at this point, I'd say, don't touch the base of one system. They keep it, make it stable, I'm talking about this moment, but, on the other hand, they change what's necessary to supplement the existing system and make the existing system more efficient. I am talking about the current moment and the current proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act. Also, I'd say that the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act at this point are kind of getting everybody. When I say everyone, I mean students first, I mean teachers and universities, but also society. When it comes to students, I have already said, the possibility of more effective, more effective study is created, in a way making it easier for students. When it comes to professors and university, it's one responsibility. When it comes to society, I would say that these proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education at the moment are in line with the needs of society. I'd agree with one of the previous speakers. Now it's a big job in the academic community. There is a big job for the academic community to review student burdens, to reform study programmes, teaching content, textbooks, etc. I want to say at the very end that there are a number of amendments that have been proposed both by the opposition and the position. We'll have a chance to discuss this during the discussion in detail, but I'd like to invite you to consider the amendments very carefully. If there is an opportunity to accept some of the amendments, if it affects the quality of the proposed amendments and additions, and my colleague tells me that there are six proposed amendments, and if you consider the amendments to be of quality, but they are not the subject of the current proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act, I would like to ask you to take them into account in the next debate on the proposed amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. At the very end, I will repeat what counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic, the authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club said at the very beginning, the SPS parliamentary club in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24011	The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24012	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, Mr Minister, although the amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act that we are considering today under the urgent procedure also contain provisions relating to higher education institutions in the field of national security, I will only briefly remain on those parts relating to changes in terms of budgetary funding for study. We know that today, in most cases, schooling children in colleges for their parents is almost impossible, especially when it comes to students from the interior, even when they're lucky to get their hands on dorms and get their scholarship rights, that education requires huge financial waivers for their families. Not to mention the amazing enthusiasm of these young people, but also of their parents who continue to believe that schooling is the safest way to a better life, even when they have to look under the sun for someone else's sky, which is still one of the most terrible social consequences of the crisis that we have been living for a long time, with only professions: "stay here" could not be enough to stop the growing trend of brain draining. Far enough that we, I believe, will meet their demands today, but at least for me it is another piece of evidence that the institutions of the system function, and that we as elected representatives of citizens respond to their demands whenever they are reasonable and socially justified, which is true in this case. Acceptance of student requirements will in fact be some satisfaction for frightening data published recently under an official project "Relevant Scientific Institutions". I believe you've all heard about it, but let me say it again. More than 10 times the percentage of children from working and rural families who pass into higher social status through education, which has long been the most significant social mobility channel by definition, through which better social positioning of children is achieved compared to the generation of their parents. Today, that percentage is barely 4%, while only a few decades ago it was over 39%. In plain language, if you were born into a poor family, you have a 96% chance of your family being poor too. Ladies and gentlemen, is that the social justice that we all, at least declared, stand for? Criminal and savage privatisation led to the dramatic decomposition of our society and seriously rocked until then a valid system of values in which knowledge and education was guaranteed or at least tickets and qualifications for a decent life, and those who constantly laminate over the terrible 1990s wanted to ask out with their voice to meet children who were born in the 1990s, and today they stood to be students despite everything and help at least their parents who brought children into the world in the same 1990s, believing that the crisis was temporary, not because they like to give birth to the poor. Too many modern - day students, and their parents, in the meantime, have observed all kinds of social injustices so that today we have the right to disobey their demands. A bitter joke from that time: "Let me graduate, so that I emigrate" is current today, with one even more black-humbled: "I still have 1,500 euros until the end of the study". Not to mention that famous advert from that private university, something in the sense – graduate and fall out. It's too tragic to be a place, and too much has been left by our generations bad for these students today, so the vote for their request would be at least a minimum of decency, a gesture to show today that our children are the most important. Of course, to remember all that famous Indian wisdom, which he says, we do not inherit the land from our ancestors, but we borrow it from the offspring. It is unnecessary to stress that the Serbian Progressive Party will, of course, support the students' proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24013	Thank you. National MP Svetislava Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24014	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, unfortunately there is not much time left, separated during our parliamentary group to talk about today's agenda, but it is very important for me that we have a chance to talk about education at all and I think that every time, however tight it is, we spend a discussion on education, it is extremely important. I've been consulting my discussion notes with the previous minister, the former minister. One of the first things I said was that it was a modest bill, which is, in relation to this one, which is before us today, you would agree even to be ambitious. What is, therefore, significant to me, it is the fact that the modesty of this proposal is contained in the fact that we are dealing with a particular situation, that the motive is something that in depth does not correspond to the essential reforms that we are obviously all in favour of, and that is why I have heard with joy from you that soon intends and announces a comprehensive change of law, which we have long ago in the Liberal Democratic Party advocated. Simply because we have come to the conclusion that we are facing problems that are still problems stemming from the unplanned implementation of the reform, it is often on the agenda that even the disenfranchisement of the spirit of the Bologna Process and the permanent question over it, rather than now that we have finally accepted that path, we are dealing with ways to improve everything we have committed ourselves to. It's so important to us that, therefore, we turn around, we finally hope to change the law, not only given the specific requirements of students, and what we all agree on is the necessity to help them achieve what the requirements of reform are, that's the magic number of 60 points and the regular completion of exams and years in four, since I come from the university environment, and I am personally very interested in that. What is certainly important to me is that we take advantage of that time that we have, that we also appeal to students from this place, that they engage even more actively in this process, and that they initiate changes that will involve quality of education, quality of knowledge, and not just what is the outcome in terms of passivity. It will by no means help what we all strive for, which we all agree on, which is that only our offspring, which we now educate and cultivate in these university environments, will be able to bring us out of a crisis like this, in which we are already sinking. So I also appeal to students, as well as to any other independent of which political option they belong to, finally, to ask ourselves the essential questions – what is our quality of education, whether we have adequate textbooks, how this knowledge is checked, whether exams are appropriate forms, whether there is overlapping materials, whether the number of points corresponds to the burdens that students suffer, etc., etc. There's plenty of questions. (President: Time. ) I thank and simply urge from this place once again, that education is no longer a transition category, which is socially oriented, but qualitative in terms of quality of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24015	Thank you. National MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24016	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are not talking about increasing or reducing the criteria in general. We are talking about something that has a very specific and precise name, a European system of portable points. The emphasis is on what I want to say – in the European system and we are talking about the number of deadlines tested in addition to this proposal for the establishment of higher education institutions in the area of national security. When I say - to the European system, I would like to stress that today we are making a long-term decision that is not so much about our political destiny because to make one decision that is required, as Mr. Minister said, by 30,000 students, is not a great political courage. At the same time, I use the opportunity to praise the degree of consensus and satisfaction of the degree of consensus reached between the ruling and opposition parties because students are the same as all of us may be the most vulnerable social group because they do not have access to the labour market. What I'm saying is that this is about a quantitative criterion that is part of European standards, a European system of standards, and at the same time we're coming out of this decision to meet a category of students who are socially one of the most endangered precisely because they don't live on their own incomes. It's about something that will have long-term consequences on students, on their fate in life. Here the term points are used, and in English these are credits, but what they get in the form of diplomas, even these points that will eventually be typed in letters and figure in their diplomas are vouchers for their success in life. Therefore, we must all be aware of the weight of these decisions that we make in the long term, not only today by adapting to emerging economic and social circumstances, but also by warning students that in the future and this kind of mobilization requires a greater number of test deadlines or a reduction of points to be funded on the budget and that they may be enrolled in the new year, in the long run they may not be in their interest. At this point, the Republic of Serbia, if I am not mistaken, has these opportunities, Mr. Minister will correct me, the decision has been made earlier, to fund around 16,500 students on the budget. Tomorrow, the economic package of the stabilisation package will be presented, so to speak, and this is the human rights of a number of students, and we know that human rights in Serbia and human rights standards, such as one basic right to education or as Minister Jovanovic stressed that education is never goods, that it is actually the most profitable and personal and social investment, that it can be the right to education as much as we have the resources in the budget. So, as I've already said, here we're making one decision about quantitative evaluation of the invested work of students, some average weekly number of student classes that works, 40 hours. One point is worth between 25 and 30 hours of student work, and that's something that quantitatively can be measured. I also think it is good for the general public to point out that under this Bologna system the work of students is verified and valued by six criteria, the activities and work of students in exercises and lectures, in the framework of the work on seminars, independent work, practical work, colloquiums and exams. The more test deadlines they have, as a fellow Florist said, can be more relaxed for exams and thus be better scored. However, I would also point out other than these legal solutions, because we are parliamentarians, we are primarily interested in what will be voted on by our votes or improved by amendments under the law, there is a very important development strategy – the education development strategy in Serbia by 2020, which is the activity of the previous minister of law. Obradovic and his team of associates brought in something like a strategic document, which is again in line with this European higher education space. We need to think about the longer term. Now that we're talking in 2013, we need to think about where they're going to be and how they're going to work and how they're going to hire that generation by 2020, and that's why some of the more score scales provided for in this strategy and which are required by an earlier proposal within the law, which we're now lowering are extremely important. We must be competent in the European knowledge and education market. You know that the European strategy, the European economy that is in crisis, is based on the knowledge economy, that human capital is one of the most valuable capital, that it is the strategic resource of each country. That is why we must be extremely careful when we adapt these standards to the social economic circumstances in our country, but we must be aware that we are within a European higher education area. So, today tomorrow, maybe some of these students will decide on some inter-university mobility, mobility, maybe seek to complete their education at one of the European universities. That's why it's not good for us to support average in the long run. With that kind of confidence that many of us, I'm sure, who have been worthy of students, students, students and who have high-level diplomas, I must say that when we make this decision, we must at least warn the students that this is not something that will last long, this criterion, and that it would be good to 2014. – In 2015 we can reach, if not a system of 60 points, perhaps 50, but certainly a reduction of the test deadlines. It's in their interest, their diploma will write the number of points. They will be less competitive on the European labour market, if one day Serbia, and we believe it will, join the EU. I tried to find information, whether official or off-the-book, how much it cost to educate a college graduate intellectual, an expert, and I failed in the way the British calculated it. In Great Britain, the education of a college-educated man, they say, costs 300,000 euros. I found this information in the book of scientific associate Vladimir Grecic, who recently published the "Serbian scientific diaspora" note. There he was able to identify 30,000 of our experts, highly educated, who went into the world. Most of them are in America – 6,000, Europe – 4,000. If that figure is correct, that 30,000 experts have gone away, and if we now multiplied this number by the 300,000 euros in the UK, it turns out that about nine billion euros our country has given for granted in terms of those experts. They're huge resources. It's a luxury our country can't afford. That's why it's important at all times to insist on over-average. It means that we support students to really be the best students, students. I would stress, as various colleagues are, I think it is very positive, we are simply eager to have this conversation, which was supported by Minister Jovanovic, that right now, at this time, although there is only one fragment of the law on the agenda, we are thinking about the future, right in this context of the education development strategy in Serbia. So let's think about what it will look like in the future and realize that we are training a workforce that will not only work in Serbia or experts who will not work only in Serbia, but who will work in a wider space. We must also stress that what is a problem with education in Serbia, which is a large number, in secondary school and high school education, of those who give up education. So, just by moving and lowering this line, we may have supported some students that because of the financial situation they haven't given up their university and will remain in large cities to finish their education. It's a good work we do. At the same time, I think that economic policy, the educational policy of this country will be the development policy of this country and certainly based on the knowledge economy. We can't neglect that at all. It's a resource that's proven everywhere in the world, even with us. The colleagues here talked about various criteria that may have become obsolete, about the 1995 knowledge cipher. I'd say we don't have any safe indicators. We have a Shanghai list of successes and it is good that our Belgrade University significantly improved its position by over 100 points. We don't have defined, maybe it's thinking about the future, the criteria that students would be a reliable indicator when choosing college, which college to choose. Americans, who carefully follow the ratings of every college, every university, have different criteria. One of the criteria, not just the length of study or the quality of study, the number of groups of students, whether they are small or large, each student there is burdened with debt that must be paid back. So this is a competition between students, whether it's going to be on the budget or not, extremely important, for both of them, and for their families. Also, another encouragement, the Americans, the pedantic Americans, calculated that anyone who has a college degree earns $414 a week more than the next one below. We have no such indicators in Serbia. We don't have any indicators when someone graduates from college how long they'll be waiting for work or what his salary will be. It's something we need to adapt to, it's a capitalist economy, and maybe there's a survey to be conducted on these indicators. I am pleased that a high degree of consensus has been reached between the ruling and opposition parties, because this is not a political issue, a party issue. It's a question of the future of young people who can trigger the development of this country. On behalf of the SPS, as one of the MPs, as well as my colleagues, I express my agreement with the ministry's and minister's proposals. I hope that students will find it easier to study, but note that these criteria, the red line, have really come to a minimum and that these criteria should be focused on raising in the future and in line with European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24017	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24018	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's discussion gives me hope that Serbia will be better, much better, at least in the field of education. Why do I say that? Because, as rarely as ever, it happened today that we have the unity of all those who participated in the discussion. On the other hand, I am pleased that the minister has promised to work on conditions at all levels of education being much better than they are. It is not easy to run one ministry, as a ministry run by counterpart Jovanovic. In objective terms, there is room for at least four ministries. There was once a special ministry of primary and secondary education, especially the ministry of higher education. There could very easily be places for a serious ministry of science, so the ministry of technological development and information society. All of this came in honor of fellow Jovanovic, and he voluntarily accepted it and will have very much to do on the road. I advise him not to accept the fact and say, well, it's not a bad situation in the ministry that I run. On the contrary, he should try to keep his ministry best amongst the best and not compare to the bad, but only to the best and to be the best. I know it won't be easy, but I believe we'll all help him together. As for the amendments to these bill, I wouldn't talk much about them. As with other parliamentary groups, our parliamentary group will vote for these changes, but I want to say one more thing. Today we meet students and their demands, but in order to be honest with them, we have to make such an environment, in which their study will be on one decent level. When I say that, what does that mean? We need to create such an education system that will be ready to respond to the demands of the economy and where students, when they finish their studies, will be able to go to a factory, schools, hospitals and elsewhere where they will have a job. It's easy to talk about Great Britain, England, however we want to say that there are 300,000 pounds or euros in studies, it doesn't matter, but their students have the possibility that the state is giving them credits that they pay off after their studies and getting jobs. What's the problem with us? This is my personal experience, and I believe it happens to other colleagues. Most students can't come to my class in time, they can't come to class. Why? Because employers don't let them, especially private employers. We will have the opportunity to discuss the amendments and additions of the Labour Act soon. We need to find a way to convince these people that they need educated people, that they need these students, that they're not just schooling for themselves, but that they're studying to make those companies they work in better. In the end, I believe this is just the first step in the work we're going to do together, in a business that will benefit all students and the entire community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24019	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24020	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is the fact that the adoption of the Higher Education Act 2005 launched a reform of the higher education system, with main objectives such as: increasing the efficiency of the higher education system, introducing standards and procedures for the evaluation of higher education institutions and study programmes, as a means of ensuring the quality of higher education, including students as partners in the higher education process, but it is also the reality that this reform has not been implemented to justify the foreseeable reduction of the test deadlines and the increase in the points necessary for budgetary study. Over the past few years, the youth has been paying insufficient attention, and the problems students have been facing, as well as the implementation of "Bolonja" but also the arbitrary interpretation of the same by individual universities, have brought uncertainty and uncertainty among students who often expressed their dissatisfaction with protests. It's a good thing the SCONUS proposal was accepted. It shows that there is an understanding for student problems and the will to solve them, but I also think it's time to stop the practice that has been current so far, which is that the problem is solved in five to 12. I'm really not going to name either side as the main culprit, because the reality is that neither students nor teachers have simply managed to apply "The Bologna," but in some ways I have to put myself on the side of today's student. We are all aware that the really difficult economic situation that we are in today is also in such conditions of the economic crisis and the process of social transformation, the support of the family, and I mean the financial support of the family, is usually minimal or totally lagging behind. And when individual students finally close that financial-family structure, they are still forced to do some, any job, to support themselves during their studies. There is a problem known as – reduced study efficiency, not because some student is lazy, less intelligent, disorganised, but simply because he is burdened with a bunch of problems during the study that are not related to the studies themselves. I listed one of the reasons why this problem arises. There are many more reasons, health, psychological, many others. Therefore, it is necessary to identify the problems of our academic community and address them in a timely manner, following all current social and economic opportunities in society. It's very important that a student doesn't lose a step with his own generation. In this way, there is a possibility, a problem, that there is a estrangement that usually results in a failure to complete an initial study, which is not good for either student or society in general. Taking into account the complete situation in which the students are located, we will be able to better assess what needs to be done to improve the quality of the study and the quality of knowledge that is acquired, because it is not only important to enroll and finish the university, but what we will bring and what we will learn. I think the academic community is yet to have a job of reviewing student burdens, reforming study programmes, teaching content of textbooks, etc. The amendments to this law will allow students to take exams at six instead of scheduled five exam deadlines during the school year. This will certainly, together with the decision to keep 48 points as a condition for the budget this year, make it somewhat easier for students to meet their obligations in time and enter their next year of studies according to university quotas. I certainly don't think this is the final solution, and I think that the solution must be found in a conversation with the university's representatives, in order to bring about a plan that meets all sides, which can be implemented in practice. Compared to the legal provisions on conditions of study, it is necessary to step up the completion of the reform of the university itself, which began to implement the Bologna system several years ago, but did not complete the adaptation of large and often outdated material to new rules of study. It is necessary to reform the material in order to obtain as much quality knowledge as possible, which will benefit young people in their professional lives. And if we want to create a sustainable and modern education system that will give students, our students, future experts enough knowledge to be competitive in the region and the world, if we want to raise the level of highly educated people in Serbia to the level that exists in the EU in the future, much more attention should be paid to reforming the higher education system and the problems our students face. Of course, the SNS will support the law on amendments to the Higher Education Act in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24021	Thank you. National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24022	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every law regarding education, education and education always falls within a group of strategically important laws for a country. Although this law, when viewed, has four members, and by the number of members it seems small, is essentially not so. This law, which mentions only these two members who have just drawn much more public attention, as it concerns directly students, refers to a reduction in points to 48 and an increase in the number of test deadlines. Apparently, these aren't major changes, but actually these two members are the tip of the iceberg. We here in recent years traditionally, at the end of September, have the same agenda, and these members are related to the number of points and the number of test deadlines. Since this is repeated year after year, it's not so safe or harmless. This suggests that there are certain problems in this school reform that started in 2005. At the Minister, I see from his discussions, I'm glad that, he's from almost a minister, but he's a longtime professor at the university, so he knows all the problems and this Bologna process, is that he sees and filmes the problems that need to be addressed properly, to overcome the recorded problems that are in previous discussions, when we listen to MPs, whether the position or opposition, I, except for maybe one exception, absolutely every discussion I've heard is objective, giving arguments about the problems that the ministry needs to record and do an analysis in this school reform. So, this Bologna process, as we say, must have lived in some colleges, not on the other side. Somewhere in the same groups, profiling colleges lived better, somewhere worse, but it's obvious that there's something to be done, not to be these declarative stories, because this is how we talked in September of last year and in October of last year. So, the observations that this is the tip of the iceberg and the problem of points, i.e. the number of test deadlines, is a very significant indicator that something is wrong, and from many MPs we have heard numerous objections, from unsatisfactory plans, textbooks, methods of organisation, study programmes in colleges, etc. So, it's up to the minister not to be this story that we're going to be telling next September, not to repeat itself, but to have the ministry do a detailed analysis and do a recording of the situation in which the stage, as well as how that reform has moved away. Especially should be profiled according to the judge's profiles. In an appropriate way, when recording the situation, it is also necessary to do appropriate strategic principles so that these problems slowly begin to be resolved. It's a difficult situation in every education system. We are now talking about higher education, not to leave the neglected secondary schools and primary and preschool education, because they are significant segments, as they start from preschool to college. Adequate young people should come to the university with appropriate working habits, appropriate training and appropriate principles built in life. But speaking of college, students are also hit, and it's not easy for teachers either. Everyone adapts very often, knowing some colleges, in difficult economic and financial conditions. So, students are always, whether it's political, but they've always been right and they have to be right, because they're young people and they expect their professors and the state in a proper way to give them all the benefits of education, and it's up to them to put their hard work and work into it so that they can finally crown their skills and their efforts with a college degree. Of course, my previous colleagues have already said that the SNS will vote to amend this law. Just once again I ask the Minister – please, Mr Minister, we have told these stories for the last four years in September and October. These remarks, to take notes and records, are the same, and at the end of the day, when we look at them, we're talking about the same changes and nothing's done. So, please, because of the students, because of the professor, because of the university, and in general because of higher education, some shifts are made, as much as they allow for the economic and other opportunities of society, that next autumn at least some segments are removed from the agenda and that we arrange some new segments in higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24023	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24024	Dear President, dear colleagues, I would first of all take this opportunity to congratulate my fellow citizens on the Day of the City of Kings, with sincere desire that our city progresses in all possible areas and thus enable the Royals to have a good and quality life, as they certainly deserve. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, it is a matter of few amendments, which primarily go to students in favour, which I think is very positive. The changes provided for concern the number of test deadlines and the number of points. Namely, the number of test deadlines increased from five scheduled to six testing deadlines. I don't think we need to further explain how important this is for our students and how much it will help them win as many points as possible. When it comes to points, it's changed. The estimated 50 points have been reduced to 48 points, as long as it takes for students to continue funding from the budget. From the above, I think it is clear that it has been done first of all and that it has been managed by the interests of students, trying to help them as much as possible, to make their studies as effective as possible, and of course also in view of the economic crisis we are in. Also, this law establishes a legal basis for establishing a higher education institution that exists for national security purposes. It provides that part of the teaching staff, and especially when it comes to professional subjects, can be engaged from the relevant services, and given the expertise of these people and their work on the ground, have so far proved to be an irreplaceable factor, and of course taking into account all the specificities and all the importance of this area. At the very end, I would take this opportunity to appeal to our minister to understand all the seriousness in which our education lies, including, of course, higher education. We are witnessing a number of changes that have occurred so far in our education system. I really believe the intentions were good, but unfortunately the result is far from good. What we need right now is one teamwork, is a lot of energy, one system approach to really make radical changes. The goal is to return above all quality and education to our education system. The goal is to finally make debateable diplomas a thing of the past and to be a college-educated man really means being an intellectual in the right sense of that word. I believe that this law is a small but significant step towards achieving this extremely ambitious goal and therefore this bill will receive support from the SNS in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24025	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24026	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers, members of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, amendments and additions to the laws relating to the number of test deadlines and the ENPB points needed to enter the budget, which have been carried out in recent years on several occasions, point out unequivocally that our higher education system is still insufficiently efficient. We deal with the consequences instead of removing the causes. That's where you ask a lot of questions. Is the problem in insufficient compliance with the Bologna Process, poor organisation and self-valuation, inadequate standards, corruption, regulation, inadequate quality control, inadequate administration and inspection, teaching staff or students themselves? These are the questions to be answered, so that this situation does not repeat itself year after year. On the basis of consultations with people working in higher education, I would point out some solutions and irregularities in the current law enforcement, which should be dealt with urgently because they open up a space for corruption. One of the bad solutions is that higher education institutions themselves, more specifically the advice of a higher education institution, are allowed to determine the size of tuition. When it comes to private higher education institutions, this solution is not controversial. This solution is also in line with the legislative regulation and autonomy of higher education institutions. However, I believe that this solution opens up a space for corruption at higher education institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia and whose work is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This should introduce control mechanisms through which the competent ministry may review criteria on the basis of which the higher education institution has established the level of tuition, and should include student organisations and conferences throughout the procedure, as students can best assess the conditions of study and the quality of education they receive for the amount of tuition. I am amazed by the fact that certain NGOs and student organisations have asked certain higher education institutions to deliver to them the criteria for establishing tuition and the way the scholarship funds are spent, but they have failed to obtain the requested information even through the Commissioner for Public Information. This is alarming, because higher education institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia must provide full transparency in their work, while in practice it is exactly the opposite. Moreover, certain higher education institutions receive fees, which are legally defined as their own school incomes, share teaching and non-school staff in the form of copyright fees, for which there are often no valid payout criteria, and the level of copyright fees is declared to be a business secret. I believe that higher education institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia should have full autonomy on issues relating to scientific research and the professional choice of teachers and co-workers, the choice of student programmes and the quality of teaching. The autonomy, however, cannot and must not apply to the determination of tuition and spending of its own resources. Just because the Republic of Serbia is the founder of such institutions and their functioning is financed from its budget, it must have insight into the establishment of tuition. This team prior to the fact that the founder, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, provides funds to a higher education institution, and is then taxed – for material costs, current and investment maintenance, salaries of employees in accordance with the law and collective contract, equipment, library fund, performing scientific and artistic work, which is in the function of raising the quality of the debate, scientific and professional training of employees, promoting development, teaching and teaching-art subjugation, working with gifted students, international co-operation, sources of information, information systems, publishing work, the work of the student parliament and extracurricular work, the financing of equipment, the conditions for studying students with disabilities and other purposes. If the founder provides all these funds to higher education institutions, then why are tuitions so high? Is there a rational calculation that any higher education institution whose founder is the Republic of Serbia can support? We are witnessing that individual student programs are more attractive than others, which is why institutions that perform attractive student programs are able to make huge own incomes. In order to reduce redundancies from the budget, the state should finance student programmes that are not attractive and for which there is a real demand in the labour market. Conversely, the state should stop funding from the budget of those student programmes that are well-interested, despite the fact that there are a large number of graduate students of the student programmes that have been on the unemployment records for many years. A compromising solution would be to make your own so-called. The revenues of higher education institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, or the revenues from the scholarships of the co-financing students, are paid into a special fund for the development of scientific and research work, so that, through the competition, they are allocated to scientific and research projects and to finance less attractive student programmes, in line with labour market needs. It is also necessary to see the possibility of a change of article 54 relating to the choice of a management body, which states that the body of the operation is elected for three years, with the possibility of a re-election. Practice has shown that this solution is not good, because the managing authority is given the possibility of re-election to the same function of misusing its function, in terms of creating conditions for its re-election. The methods differ from manipulating the choice or re-election of teachers, recruiting similar teachers on fictitious projects that exercise the right to increase earnings based on the copyright fee, would be trade by influence, and up to different types of pressure and mobbing of non-matched teachers. Article 64 relating to conditions for selecting teachers is also insufficiently precise and leaves room for abuse. This article only provides framework conditions for the selection of individual teacherships, while the nearer conditions are specified by the act of the higher education institution, in accordance with the recommendations of the National Council referred to in Article 11(1) of point 13 of this Act. In this way, it enables the body of operations and professional authorities to choose less quality candidates in the competition, and even those who do not meet the recommendations of the National Council, because they do not do so in violation of the law but simply do not respect the recommendations of the National Council, for which no specific sanctions are prescribed. Finally, I would point out that the Law on Higher Education, adopted in 2005, has since made changes to this law truly minor, in practice it has proved that the law in many members is unsettled or with insufficiently precise formulations that leave room for manipulation and corruption. I therefore advocate that this law be subject to a longer period of time to the systematic court of the expert public, in order to prepare for the following year valid changes and additions which will be significantly more content and scope and which will be adopted in the ordinary and not in the emergency procedure. Otherwise, we're going to have the same situation both next year and years to come, because this way we don't solve problems systematically, we just push them under the rug until the next school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24027	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24028	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, has become a custom for each fall, with each new school year for students, to come to the National Assembly to propose amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I don't know if it's because of the misapplication of the existing legal solution or the satisfaction of the students, but it's obvious that there's a problem, so every autumn there's a fire that's been extinguished by the amendments to this law, in terms of the number of deadlines tested and the number of points tested. In 1999, the Bologna Declaration was signed by several European countries ministers, which Serbia signed in Berlin in 2003, and we also implemented the 2005 Higher Education Act. In this way a new way of studying was introduced, so called. studying in Bologna. A reform of the education system has been implemented. The question arises: has reform been carried out and what has it brought us? Serbia is at the very bottom of the list by the number of educated people. While every fourth German has a university, in Serbia every 16 people have a degree in college, and over a million people in Serbia are partly illiterate. This is a devastating fact. With a fact like this, who can be against making concessions to students? I believe that the Bologna study process, which instead of contributing to the easier mastering of materials and faster study, led to a completely different outcome – either we did not apply Bologna or we applied it and misread the Professors only divided the existing exams so instead of once we have two or more exams. At the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, for example, instead of International Public Law, we have an International Public Law One, International Public Law Two. Also state and rights one, state and rights two. A completely different principle of learning was introduced to avoid the so-called. It's campaign learning. It came down to learning in advance for a few lessons like in high school and whether a teacher could ask for a lesson. Points are collected, students' activities are monitored throughout the year, so it happens that the student collects points by sitting in class, following exercises, passing colloquiums, has other extracurricular activities but doesn't even go out for the exam. He knows neither what he learned nor how much he learned. The question is, what is the essence of education? Whether collecting points or collecting knowledge and then happening with all the effort so that the student doesn't collect enough points and that won't be enough for the budget. This is how we put study at risk for the privilege of the rich. For example, a scholarship at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad where I studied 79,000 dinars, over a semester of 2,000 dinars, applied for examinations of 660 dinars, and a request to issue convictions and diplomas of 8,500 dinars. It's about the price of books that we don't even talk about. So all times two, three, four years. Doctoral studies in Novi Sad cost a total of 57,000 dinars, I don't know if you know that, Minister. The tuition itself is 254,000 dinars, and in Belgrade, 180,000 dinars. So we don't have a price uniform at universities. Given these prices, it's no wonder students go to private colleges and rush there, since for the same money they end up easier. Let's not forget that a large number of students are not from cities where colleges are already coming from other places, from the interior. Not all students from Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade. They pay for the accommodations, they pay for the food, they pay for the transport. Parents with an average salary of 360 euros send their children to study, and then because of two points and education reform they have to allocate enormous amounts for tuition for their children. In this way, I don't think we contribute to increasing the number of educated people in Serbia. I don't think the material is adapted to the study model and that it's not the number of exams passed, it's the number of points collected. Studying in Bologna with us in practice is a pale picture of what is written on paper, and I think this problem needs to be solved systematically. Despite all this, we should support this amendment to the law, because students and their families are not to blame for the poor application of one good idea, one European way of studying, and I urge you to support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24029	The word is given by MP Marko Atlagic:
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24030	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the Law on Higher Education is taking place in the reform process, although last year I warned in this place that it should not be reduced to the test deadlines, because this is not going towards the successful study of our students. The more test deadlines, the better the student's results. In the last half century, many reforms have come and gone, each of them has left a positive trail, made changes, but few methodological and strategically valid, projected and realised. None of them managed to be a pedagogical reform. If this is the case, it will be a real hit on the well-being of our students, our parents, and society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments today more than ever, we need to face the social and pedagogical reality, the critical review of our experiences in higher education, above all, we need the complete truth about the state of our education system, because the young generation must no longer be left to the verse and to the foreigners. Therefore, the moral renewal, that is, the modernisation of Serbia, including education, is an important obligation for all social players, especially our universities, as well as the Serbian Academy of Science. A value disorder has made it important to achieve goals and education, care and protection of pedagogical ethics essential for the overall success of our students. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia will turn its back on the achievements of science and education, the technological progress of the future of young generations, the creation of a large army of illiterate, semi-literate, suspended education and study, holding pedagogical lawyers in poverty and depression, without conditions for the right of pedagogical and professional training. Ladies and gentlemen, the repeat school of repeaters and students repeats the products of repeaters in cathedral politics, then parents. The time has come to consider realistic ideas, to put an end to the repeat year of college studies by improving the work of professors and reform. I believe that the new Minister of Education, Mr Tomislav Jovanovic, with his pedagogical trained associates, and the project I propose, the college of success of all students will take huge steps to build a modern system of education for young generations and economic prosperity of Serbia, I would like to say Serbia's modernisation in general. Mr. Minister, you have come to the head of this ministry at a time when our education as the most profitable resource of progressive development and humanization of society is characterized by etatization, politicisation, red tape, anti-pedagoisation, commercialisation, psychology, socialisation, centralisation, mediomania, testanomania, standardomania, quasi-reforming, broad field of corruption, imitation of the fight for quality of education and ineffectiveness of education. The personnel profile and the necessary potential for the Ministry of Education and Science must be a strategic issue and the obligations of all political actors in the Republic of Serbia. However, unilateral policy and practice to accept party similarity as the main quality of candidates for certain functions in educational institutions, direct damage to the state and to the parties themselves leading human policy in general. The understanding and seriousness of the threat to the economic crisis, then, the fate of young generations, states that the ministry's staff issue is being paid the greatest attention, starting with a wide range of co-workers and advisers in the ministry. The modern-day third industrial revolution, as you know, rests on knowledge, and without the quality ministry of education science, cannot achieve the desired goal, that is, the knowledge society. The universities represent the spirit and intelligence of the nation and are necessary for their survival. Will Serbia continue to be late with the pedagogical revolution, which will increase the number of educations thanks to the internet economic value. Education reform challenges are enormous, so the country's deepest interest in obtaining economic support from the Ministry of Education and Science and making it easier to bridge poverty in this work and Serbian society in general. The depth of the crisis, the depth of the educational system's sink, is looking for competent and mobile teams at the Ministry of Education and Science, which is responsible for the vision and foundation of the state. If we don't go this way, we have new wanderings, new slips, new waste of time, and Serbia will sort of stagnate. We'll be facing new defeats in the exam without corrections. So I firmly believe that the new reconstructed government and the Ministry of Education and Science where you are, Mr. Minister, because of the level and character of the crisis, the entire government is at the chance of a decade which I firmly believe you will realize, and you will not miss the chance. Dear People's MPs, education as the primary resource of a society in conditions of transition can contribute to progress if conditions are created for its optimal and modern functioning. That is why reforms that are in general, our government is pushing for, and that is why education reform is the key preconditions of Serbia's modernisation, which SNS and its president advocate. The reform of education must be democratic, pedagogical and scientific. The postponement of the reform of the overall education and education system makes it difficult for almost all other reforms of society. Taking care of students is the highest priority of any government, so it is very dangerous to leave young people to the perilous transition processes, development and change. Therefore, it is necessary to restore the material position of education, then, to support the family’s society and to establish the Family Ministry and function as an educational factor, to encourage young people to start families, to give birth to children and to ensure that all parents acquire the necessary basic education from family pedagogy and society through the media. Further protect our students and students from bad schools and colleges, the pathologically amoral majority of the media from the world of crime and entertainment, problematic role models, idols from the world of crime and entertainment, political and religious manipulation, violence, irresponsible parents, various diseases and habits, addictions to fears and stress, hopelessness and loneliness, false humanitarians, nerada, neglect of children with special needs. It is necessary to form schools and colleges without repeaters, it is an imperative of professional competence and responsibility for the cathedral. Pedagoggy and its disciplines have established the legality that reads, in well-organized teaching work, all students are making normal progress in their education, and the pedagogical reform requires professors to perfect their methodical abilities and all students to qualify for the smallest minimum of success. A large number of our university professors do not know the techniques of objective knowledge evaluation, as well as the methods, formats and quality of teaching, because they did not learn that when they were educated. Schools and colleges with a repeat year or leaving school, can't stand the argumentary criticism of this anachronism and intricacies. Mr. Minister, I think that there's more to being in the cathedral than in college benches, and I think that we need to bring this ratio to a certain level. The textbooks, manuals in the new school and university is an area with more open problems of pedagogical professional, economic, political, etc. This problem has not been studied scientifically enough, especially in the previous decade of social and political change, and various problems and deformations have been multiplied. A significant role in overcoming this problem is played by the Belgrade Institute for Teachers and Educational Resources. The Institute should remain the main and only producer of such literature because the forced competition did not guarantee quality, but opened a space for problematic behaviour and irrational spending of funds. The big problems in this publishing is the expansion of accompanying literature and didactic material where commercialism, inaccessible wealth, methodical creation of often suspicious values and endangering the material position of our students. And in the end I believe Mr. Minister knowing you personally, knowing your wish, your knowledge and your will to go into a comprehensive reform of education, that you will go in that direction. That is why this return to students of the test deadline and the "lowdown" points goes in that direction. On behalf of a large number of students, on behalf of many honorary lecturers for the cathedral, I call on all opposition parties to vote in the day, to give all votes to contribute to the success of our students, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24031	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24032	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, the fact that the Higher Education Act was passed in 2005 with the intention of being as much as possible in agreement with the Bologna Convention on Higher Education. Its application in the previous period has shown certain shortcomings that we are trying to eliminate with these changes and supplements. The paper introduced by this bill concerns the situation that, in an equal manner, in addition to standard higher education institutions, higher education institutions can also be set up to achieve study programmes for national security needs, while at the same time equating their status with higher education institutions for the needs of police or military education. At the same time, in order for the study programmes to be based not only on burden debates and experiences, since it is a matter for which it is necessary and practice so-called. experience from the field, the law allows the most innovative experts, practitioners with rich work and field experience to be employed in higher education institutions and to pass on knowledge to students for years. In this way, it is practically analyzed to the traineeship institute after the university, because the practice so far was that during the course of the studies students are mostly involved in the theoretical part of teaching, and that only after the completion of the university and the establishment of a working relationship if they manage to find a job are they only then start to acquire practical knowledge from older colleagues. Amendments and additions to the law allow students from experienced operatives to be presented in addition to theoretical and practical experience during basic studies. Also, in order to reduce the effects of the economic crisis, which is most generally reflected, i.e. the overturn on those who have the least income, our view is that students must be helped that if they cannot improve, they at least preserve the acquired November standard, i.e. if the student has achieved at least 48 points in the previous school year, he can in school 2013. - In 2014 to finance from the budget. This attitude of the legislator must in no way be interpreted as an incentive for labour and as an option for those who are less learning to go better than those who are more committed to learning, but exclusively as a measure of reducing the economic crisis and which is a less financial burden for the student and his family in terms of paying high tuition and loss and the rights of the student standard. In particular, I point out that the 48-point limit is the least we can do and help students because they must be taken into account the facts that are evident and that everyone is talking about, and how they affect the success of students, the interpretation of their knowledge and the achievement of so-called. But it's about the next one. In almost every university, there is one teaching class which is a narrow throat for most students, mostly where students with a minimum of pedagogical affinities allow them to pass a minimum number of students, and most often it is a single-digit number, while the candidate for the exams has dozens. I have no intention of violating anyone's authority, but I think it is necessary to withdraw the line between the experts we undoubtedly have and the good educators who know how to pass that knowledge on to students, and to get that knowledge out of the students in a proper way. Also, the number of exam deadlines scheduled for one school year imposes an unacceptable pace for students, because some colleges have 10 and more courses each, half of which are two-month minimum exams, and I wonder for a reason how many exams in one test period can one student prepare and actually pass those exams? Did we knowingly affirm the quantity at the expense of quality and should we allow colleges to set the number of test deadlines on their own in a situation where a large number of subjects are practically stifling the normal pace of taking exams and how many exams should the student pass within one test period in order to maintain his acquired status without talking about the mass of students trying to move from extra to regular student status? In the voting day, the SNS will, of course, support this proposal to amend and supplement the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24033	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24034	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my predecessors, as this debate is already coming to an end, have made a lot of reference to the changes that allow the number of points from 50 to 48 to be reduced, but I believe that they have also looked too little at the amendments of Article 40. The Law on Higher Education and I would like to say a few words about the importance of these changes and to fully support these changes. As is known, we today have an unsettled area of training of personnel for the needs of the MUP and personnel for the needs of national security. We also have on the other hand the right inflation of private colleges that are training personnel for the needs of internal affairs authorities and national security. If you look at the practice in the world, in countries with more developed democracy, you will see that the education of these personnel is given extremely high attention and that the criteria for the establishment of higher education institutions for selecting staff and the adoption of the curricula and programmes and how they are under the State's patronage and that with clear and precise guidelines that personnel profiles should be trained for the needs of the MUP and national security needs. You will agree with me that this area, when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, is very well-organized, but the problem arises with the education of personnel for the needs of the authority of the MUP and staff for the employment of national security authorities. We today have an extremely large number of private higher education institutions dealing with the education of individual personnel profiles for the needs of the Ministry of Interior and the needs of national security, but without clear coordination with the competent ministries, or state authorities, and without almost any influence from the Ministry of Interior and the authorities dealing with national security requires what kind of personnel these institutions are looking for. It is unclear what the impact of the competent state authorities on the implementation of curricula and programmes is, what is the profile of experts who are studying staff at these private universities today for the needs of the Ministry of Interior and National Security, what is the staff base of these higher education institutions. All these issues are very problematic, so in practice today we have the appearance that diplomas from some higher education institutions that are training staff for the needs of the authorities and institutions of the Ministry of Interior and National Security authorities are recognised and staff with such diplomas can be employed at the Ministry of the Interior, while the diplomas of some other higher education institutions are not recognised, which creates an inflation of staff who are unable to start a working relationship with their diplomas. A particular problem is the training of such personnel at private higher education institutions from a national security aspect. Therefore, it is a clear initiative and full support that deserves this initiative, to educate higher education institutions that would implement study programmes for the needs of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and national security bodies. As someone here said, I think it's a colleague of Janko Veselinovic, we're going to establish higher education institutions that will be trained by listening engineers. It either speaks of the fundamental ignorance of the essence of national security of institutions dealing with national security or of some evil intention. It is also unacceptable to respect that Article 40 is amended through the proposal, and then amended the provisions of this law relating to the number of points, and wants to push through the amendments of Article 40, which allow the establishment of higher education institutions for the implementation of software studies for national security purposes, I quote, according to Mr Dereta, to smuggle changes to the law. No one here is smuggling anything, no one here wants to do anything under the grain. You can look at the solutions in other countries regarding the education of staff for the needs of the Ministry of Interior and the needs of national security, and you will see that and how the state cares about these higher education institutions in organisational, staff, teaching and in any other respect, because they are specific duties. Today we have that the working relationship of these staff who are in various universities, state and private, has ended the studies, based on the competition. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable that many who work at the Security Information Agency today know that the public competition employs staff who have not passed the appropriate professional higher education institutions that are exclusively under the patronage of the ministry, or state, because they are negative security implications and that this area should not be left to date as different private higher education institutions, because the consequences for national security will be extremely high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24035	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24036	Respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, the Serbian government passed a bill that stipulates that six exam deadlines are granted to students in school 2013/2014 and that, if they make at least 48 points, they can be financed from the budget. A college entry is certainly a very serious decision and each aspect of it should be carefully evaluated. That is why the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education is on the agenda, which is very important for it to be in front of lawmakers today for consideration. Students with at least 48 points can be financed from the budget, and the number of test deadlines remains six, foreseen by amendments to the Higher Education Act, creating conditions for increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the study. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97(10) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides, among other things, a system in the field of education. The Higher Education Act was adopted in 2005, following our country's accession to the Bologna process, as a process of creating a European space of higher education and increasing the competence of European higher education standards, with the preservation of national, cultural and linguistic specificities. The adoption of the law has launched a reform of the higher education system, whose main objectives were to increase the efficiency of the higher education system, introduce a three-stage system of studies, introduce standards and procedures for the evaluation of higher education institutions. It is very important that it is one of the important objectives of including students as partners in the process of higher education and promoting the mobility of teachers and students. Over time, certain problems have been identified in the law enforcement process, so that the problems observed in the functioning of the education system have been addressed by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. This law also establishes a legal basis for the establishment of a higher education institution to achieve study programmes for national security needs, while equating status and institution with the status of higher education institutions to achieve study programmes for the needs of police or military education. Article 1 The draft law provides for amendments to Article 40. The law to create legal assumptions for the establishment of a higher education institution to achieve study programmes for national security purposes and, at the same time, equates its status with higher education institutions to achieve study programmes for the needs of police or military education. Article 2 Proposal for a law, by adding new positions to Article 73. The law stipulates that part of the teaching and co-operation staff, in particular for professional and professionally applied subjects, may be engaged by the authorities of the State Administration responsible for national security tasks in the status of teachers and co-workers with full time at a higher education facility. Article 3 The draft law amends the provision of Article 6(2). The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" number 93/12, so that the number of deadlines examined in school 2013/2014 is six, instead of five so far. Article 4 The bill, because in order to protect students' interests, reduce the impact of the economic crisis due to a certain financial burden based on the payment of tuition and the loss of the student standard rights for a large number of students as an exception to Article 88. The law stipulates that a student can finance from the budget in the school 2013/2014 year if he has achieved at least 48 points in the previous school year and is ranked as part of a total number of students, with studies financed from the budget in accordance with the Law. It is important to stress that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, since the number of students whose studies are financed from the budget is determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 83(3) and (4). Laws that are not subject to change. Given that higher education institutions adapt their work before the start of school 2013 to the solutions proposed by this law, it is proposed that the law enter into force on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and before the eighth day of publication. The Serbian Progressive Party is in favour of passing this law by an urgent procedure, and the reason lies in an important fact, that it introduces changes in the student's interest precisely because in the day of voting, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will vote to amend the Law on Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24037	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24038	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education and at this point, it is difficult to say anything without repeating what my colleagues before me have presented in their discussions, and of course in favour of these changes. I must point out that I am extremely pleased that this topic, or the demands of the students, has reached a broad consensus in parliament. I will briefly welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which had understanding and came to meet students' demands. Today, we have heard many times how important education is a matter for our country and our society. In his discussion, the minister said that our common goal is to improve education and that is the way it should be. Serbia needs young and educated people and should be able to school and to be high-level and as high-quality as possible. Education is and should be an investment that we all have to invest in. At a time of economic crisis, parents, who have lost their jobs or low incomes, have a hard time singleing out high financial resources and enabling their children to school. I come from Martinci to Sremska Mitrovica and unfortunately I have witnessed countless times that parents have to give up everything to allow children to study. The changes, which allow students to enter the next college year into the budget with 48 points won, will be a financial relief, both for parents and for students. I believe that this is an important step in solving the problems students face, and I will certainly support and vote in favour of these amendments and additions to the Education Act in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24039	Thank you. Djordje Stojsic is not here. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, probably a large number of students and their parents today are paying attention to this assembly debate, because they don't care, because they still don't know if they're going to enroll next year on the cost of the state, or they're going to have to pay not so little tuition themselves. The desire of a large number of parents is for their children to enroll and finish college, but today it's not a bit easy, given the situation in which we all live. It's particularly difficult for parents in the interior. They have to allocate extra money to pay for apartments, utility, food and transportation. Very often children, especially from the interior, at least because parents cannot pay their tuition yet, give up further education and study. For some, it means they've lost their chance to get out of the poverty they live in through education. But because of all of this, the state must not allow the students and their parents to get into such a situation and into such uncertainty every October. Also, we have to ask ourselves, last year in October, when we discussed this law, we have to ask ourselves what it is that everything needs to be done to make studying in Serbia faster and more efficient. It is obvious that the Ministry of Education has failed and that since October, or September last year, when we passed that law, nothing has been done and we have been in the same situation again. Serbia is one of the longest countries in Europe. About eight years is the average length of study. Since college, 45% of students and only 10% of students graduate within the deadline. One reason for the introduction of the Bologna system was to stop this, to reduce study time, to have better working conditions in colleges, to gain better quality knowledge and to increase Serbia's number of highly educated people, who are around 11% with us, which is significantly below the average in European countries. The Bologna process was introduced to us long ago. However, it has not been successfully implemented to date. The application of Bologna to us has suffered many blows and has encountered many obstacles, primarily due to the inability of the system to adapt to the brakes that exist and the colleges themselves. We still have outdated curricula, inadequate textbooks, rigidity and the will of individual university teachers, which is why our students do not get quality education and are simply not competitive on the world market. What hurts me especially as an educator is that there is not a real idea of mandatory practice somewhere. Bologne was initiated by European employers who wanted students to be able to work immediately when they got out of the bench. With us, except for rare colleges, state universities mostly don't have that mandatory practice. Our students, when they graduate from college, are unable to use what they've learned. What worries me even more is that they rarely show the ability of critical thinking, innovation, and initiative. For long and inefficient study, the entire system is responsible and we have to change that. The focus and focus of our attention must be the outcomes of learning, knowledge, skills and competences of students. Study programs, curriculas must be modernised and comply with modern currents. Research elements, content that encourage entrepreneurship and improve what is very important, practical skills and competences of these young people must be introduced. Complete students must be ready to work, not to have unusable knowledge or just to get a degree. The university's own teaching needs to be modernised. What's particularly important is to establish quality cooperation between professors and students, which you said to Mr. Minister, somewhere in your statement I found in the media, from two years ago. We can't allow today at the time of information technology, modern techniques to allow the study to come down to the professor coming into the amphitheater, giving a lecture for 100, 200, 300 students, and then we expect the students to bug the material and literally reproduce it in the exam. Those times are long gone. I'll give you an example I found. In one college of 180 students, 10 passed the written part, and the oral part no one. Is that normal? I'm really not into drastically descending criteria and hyper-production of personnel, but we have to do everything we can to create a system with clear rules that will not constantly change, but also to allow students to gain as high-quality knowledge and skills as possible in a modern way. I keep wondering if students in Europe are smarter and more valuable than ours? Well, of course they're not, but there's a system where the student is focused and everything is subordinated. What's also important and what we have to do is connect education with the labour market. When an investor comes to Serbia with a desire to open a factory here and hire people, he is most interested in the educational structure in addition to the general conditions of business, location and infrastructure. Of course you're looking for the most highly educated personnel. We've seen this, for example, in the Mubadala case. The condition for the realization of this investment worth about four billion dollars is to provide 1,000 experts who are, of course, highly educated. Here, the rule of the so-called heart of hardware would mean that we must develop some scientific areas and that would be the real technological revolution in Serbia. The other day with the management of this company and the deans of technical colleges, a joint meeting was held on this subject. It is the right way for investors to come to Serbia and hire our young highly educated experts, not for them to go abroad. We must not miss the chance to make such a big investment and leave our young people here in Serbia. This just shows that education systems and universities in Serbia must be flexible and open systems, not rigid, closed and somewhere for their own good. We need to adapt to meet modern currents, not to allow higher education in Serbia to be a fertile ground of grey economy and business, to prevent easy and rapid arrival of calling and diplomacy, without much effort and without work. This will not lead us forward, for knowledge, skill, and creativity are appreciated in the modern world. Mr. Minister, you have a great responsibility. It's been a year, we haven't done anything. We've come back to changing the law and reducing the criteria. It's just that we expect you to do a lot of work to make our higher education, our colleges modern, so students can study quickly and efficiently, and not to find each other with the same subject in a year's time in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24041	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24042	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you, Mr Arsenovic, will allow us not to bring this debate down to points and deadlines, although we today expect almost 30,000 students, but to discuss education in a slightly wider way. Mr. Minister, without any idea of accusing you of a catastrophic state of education, we must point to the responsibility you have shouldered by taking over as minister, because your starting point today is very bad. The students you said were right, and before you 45 years ago, another politician, are today the victim of a poor education policy ten years ago. Today, their parents and they themselves pay the price and irresponsible policies and the lack of continuity in education reforms. Each minister had his specifics, without any plan or strategy. In 2001, the government of Zoran Djindjic launched a reform of education. In 2003, the assembly adopted a document requiring the reform to run. Already in 2004, the reform was halted by a minister who wanted even Darwin's theory of evolution to get out of the education system. After her, the minister who believed he didn't know where the Ministry of Education building was was engaged in Kosovo, and, by the way, managed to get his English out of the first class, not understanding the need for the time we were living in and where we live today. After him, your predecessor, who we wouldn't talk about today, we've really talked a lot about in the past few months, and he's had his specifics. So several ministers in ten years, each with its specifics, started, stopped, started, stopped the reform, and today we can't expect better than what we have, and a month ago we declared a small graduation a great shame. What is happening today, the finance minister, is actually a paradigm for all those who have graduated from college abroad, want to return, nostrify their diploma and become employed in Serbia. I think that call for all young people who have graduated from colleges abroad to return and help Serbia today is a little dishonest, because they too will wait for all the abnormalities of the education system that were waiting for Finance Minister Lazar Krstic. I would really not talk about him anymore, because the case threatens to harm Serbia's reputation. Imagine how Yale teachers will react when they hear that one of their best students has been hired in Serbia today as finance minister and with medium professional training. I can imagine, and I believe you can, too. But it's not our idea. It's our job to solve these problems. The Democratic Party has proposed a law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which we want to address the problem of nostrification of diplomas. There's no way in this House we can get support for that law. A few hours ago he was rebuffed and he didn't get the support to talk about it here. I think the crisis in the education system is so much that you can't do this job alone. You need to be more flexible, open the door for the opposition and the suggestions we're making today. In fact, the crisis in our education system shows the way our school year began. How many students started school year without textbooks? There were no funds or money to invest in books and textbooks, but that's why there's money to invest in some security academys and modernize prisons, so we're going to have a bad test score to solve by giving up testing. I think it's very bad, because the PISA test shows exactly how much our primary and secondary school students are functionally written. My appeal to you is that if there is a further chance of paying for the quotation, we must submit our students to this test, because they will stop the interpretation and show at what level and where our primary and secondary education is today. Instead of opening the topic of reforming secondary and primary education, we simply gave up testing. It's like when a kid plays, puts his hand over his eyes, doesn't see you, thinks you don't see him and thinks there's no problem. Or someone said it was like we were treating the temperature by breaking the thermometer. There is no tax reform or reform of the tax system that can put Serbia on its knees as long as modernising prison is a priority compared to modernising schools. There is no tax reform or tax system reform that can help Serbia in the long term as long as one arrested is more valuable than one student, student, teacher, graduate. That's why your job, first of all, is to convince the ones you're sitting with today in the government. You have to bring education first. That's why your job is big. But since you're running a portfolio that's impossible to win an election with, that's why your job is tough. But you have our support. I want to focus my attention on two more questions. The first question is the position today in society and the status of educators. The values of our teachers, teachers, teachers, the values of our schools, colleges, universities determine the value of our country. What's their status today in society? Instead of making them idols for generations, we made them social cases. It's your job to fight for these people and create a system in which they will be spoken with respect. It's our duty to help you with that. The DS hand for this job has been provided. The second question, which I would like to emphasise, is actually the role of education to address the problem of youth unemployment in Serbia. Today, the situation is that we educate students, students for profiles that are not needed by the economy, the market and vice versa, we do not educate students and students for profiles that are needed by the economy and the market. We have come to the situation that our education today is a generator for the unemployment of young people in Serbia. Nearly 300,000 people today do not have jobs, and their parents have no hope that anything in Serbia will change. That's why your work is very difficult and complex. This question goes beyond the scope of your ministry. It is your job, too, to establish communication with other ministries, which has not existed until today. Also, you have DS support for this job. When we draw the line, the conclusion is very simple. Bring education first, open the cabinet door for proposals coming from the opposition. We have to show that education does not wear party shoes and that it is not painted with party colors. For this job in Serbia, you will receive DS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24043	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24044	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry and colleagues, today when we talk about changes, practically four members of one law, it would be said that all of this is harmless. What awaits this ministry and the minister who took office a month ago is huge. We, of course, as MPs, are also looking at this ministry and this minister what he will do in the coming period. Public responsibility for higher education is certainly the responsibility we need to discuss. Exactly, politics and the ministry should set up clear frameworks in which universities, universities, move. When we talk about young people, their identity is directly related to education. There is no dispute that Serbia needs every highly educated individual, but an individual whose education system has allowed it to develop into a professional. That's what my colleague was talking about. It clearly states in the URS programme that the joint education and economics should enable the establishment of a knowledge society, but also create conditions for as many young people as possible to find work and to ensure their existence after schooling. It's the obligation of all resistors. Of course, somewhere we should also decentralised these topics and see what it is that every place needs and therefore work and education. When we talk about these changes, on the one hand, I have dilemmas, whether it is complete, or how predictable it is. I'm sorry we don't have some transitional period, because we had it in this proposal. There is your obligation as a ministry and a minister much greater. I think we'll get into a situation where we need to create some transitional deadlines and transitional periods. Also, we came from five to six test deadlines. I wouldn't blame the students here. This is just one message that we get as a system and we send as a system. Our system of values is already out there, and it's rocking. We also expect you to find the best solutions in the next year. There must be a mutual alliance and a relationship between the professor and the students. I don't personally belong to people who claim that all students are the same or that all teachers are the same. That would be completely incorrect. There are people who do their job very committed and do it in the best possible way. There are also students who easily or more quickly master certain matter and material. The role of all of us is to make it clear, but somewhere this year, what's waiting for them next year, not to create uncertainty, not to create confusion with parents or students or universities themselves. These universities will have an extra job, of course, but of course additional satisfaction to get as many young people out of school as possible tomorrow. What I would especially insist on is the quality of education that must be subject to constant control. It doesn't make any difference whether it's a private college or if it's a college that's founded by the state. I think quality must be improved, but it must also be monitored, that the remarks and requests of students are respected, without being a mere fill-in of some questionnaire that no one will analyze tomorrow. That's what our system needs. Knowledge acquired that can be applied on the market in accordance with the needs of society is needed. It's good when we look at the statistics. Since the 2002 census, when we had 6.52% of highly educated, today we have, or according to the 2011 list, 10.59%. I'm going to appeal again to quality, to equality, to equal chances. I know how difficult it is for parents from one of the most underdeveloped municipalities, it's my township, to educate a tall fit, to enable them to school, how difficult it is for them after their child doesn't get all that and not meet all those expectations with which she went to college. There is a task for all of us to allow these children to stay in this country, to gain practical knowledge, and that universities respond to their demands. As long as we don't change our mind that there are college students, not college students, we won't be able to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24045	The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24046	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, I will begin this exhibition with one finding, which my fellow MPs pointed out, from almost all parliamentary groups, that here we are, within a year for the second time, talking about amendments to the Law on Higher Education. Same volume of change, two, three members, both in September and October. Why am I pointing out this fact? If we had seriously discussed in September what these problems were in the implementation of the Bologna Process, that all the capacities of this society, particularly the academic community, had been raised in this debate and tried to find some solutions, perhaps today we would not be in a position to talk again about how many points a student can stay on the budget, whether five, whether six deadlines tested. This fact that within a year, for the second time, we are dealing with this law states for one more thing. Namely, this is the proposed law, where the regular session, for the second time already, we interrupt and turn it into an emergency, I'm talking about a government that at the last minute is proposing legal solutions, and in this case with a delay. Yesterday, on 6 October, we adopted amendments to the Law on Public Property and at the last minute extended the deadline for the implementation of the law and thus avoided the serious consequences that would have occurred yesterday. So, at the last minute, the government remembered, and by an emergency procedure, it gave us the law. Taking part in this debate, we received rebuke from the majority MPs that we should be grateful that the government remembered that October 6th lays out the law. I don't know what to expect today from the MPs of the majority, when we criticise the fact that this is an even worse situation. The academic year began on October 1st. This law, at best, could be passed on 9 October 10th. So we're passing a law with a serious delay. What is even worse in this case, the government's website issued a statement calling colleges, regardless of the law still hasn't been amended, not allowing students from 48 points to the budget and increasing the test deadlines, to continue to work as if the law had been passed. This refers to the government's relationship to parliament, to parliament's failure to submit, to public humiliation, to treat parliament as a voting machine that will cover the decision of most of every decision that the government makes, and also to this one -- start by enrolling students, regardless of which we haven't changed the law. That government thing really worries, and that's what I'm saying about this debate. I won't repeat what my colleagues and other colleagues have said, especially from opposition MPs' clubs, that we don't see anything serious being done in higher education. Although we have brought the National Education Strategy, it simply seems to us that the government has eaten time, at least six months at the time of the famous reconstruction, to do anything seriously here. So that's what I wanted to point out in particular, and I think it's important for this debate. I'm interested, when the government proposed these amendments to the law, did the National Council for Higher Education consult? According to the Law on Higher Education, the responsibilities of the National Council are precisely to monitor the development of higher education and its compliance with European and international standards, to propose to the competent ministry a policy of higher education and, among other things, to give an opinion on the policy of enrolment in higher education institutions. We have heard that KONUS has been consulted, but not that the National Council for Higher Education has been consulted. If that opinion is not available, it means that the government is destroying what we have set up so far in the higher education system, and that means that there should be little optimism about the government's next moves. For example, I am particularly interested in whether you have the opinion of the National High Education Council for the introduction into law and higher education institutions for the needs of national security, in particular provisions for teaching in that institution to be able to carry out employees in the national administration responsible for national security matters? I see that there is an amendment to a majority MP, who suggests teaching can be carried out by employees from all other state authorities. What exactly is this about? So, through these little changes that we had last year about enrolling students, we actually want to get to the small door to legalize the post-festum one decision that the Serbian government made on 30 April this year and set up the National Security Agency. This is another example of how the government treats parliament. We're the voting machine here. We need to legalize something the government has already done. Look, under that same Law of Higher Education, you couldn't establish this higher education facility by a government decision. If I were right to speak to this very sitting, this item of the agenda, these amendments to the law, where six months later, a legal basis is required for such a single move by the government. So, I'm talking about the manner of this government that really shows an unprecedented arrogance and impregnance of parliament. In doing so, the government says it is for European integration and European values. Well, the fundamental, basic postulate of democracy is the government and parliament's relationship in which the government must first of all respect the laws that parliament has passed. The second question, no less important, when we talk about this higher education institution that's already been established, and now we need this law and we need to cover it, it says, is it even necessary for us to have such an academy? We in the education system, as is known, already have a Faculty of Security within the University of Belgrade, which implements basic academic and vocational studies, graduate academic studies, doctoral studies, specialist academic and vocational studies, as well as vocational education and training. Over 2,000 students are at the Belgrade University university. Also, the government's decision of 2006 established a Criminal Police and Police Academy, created by integration of several home affairs schools and the Police Academy for the needs of police education, as well as other forms of vocational education and training of importance and for criminal police, according to the founding act, and security jobs. Really, do we need national security engineers or are we a modern democratic state that needs to recruit employees in security services, first seriously selecting them, and then training them in accordance with the needs, special skills and knowledge they need to have? In the most powerful security services today in the world, this training lasts for 12 weeks, and we will be enrolling in the next years by 30 students of freshmans who will study six semesters. The question arises – will they all be employed by the BIA or will they go to the labour market as national security engineers? There's no more absurd proposal that was almost in parliament than this. These are some personal ambitions of individuals who have tried to build a monument through this proposal. This Parliament must not allow itself to do so. In the end, I want to conclude. Unfortunately, it's been a whole year, and we're not having serious debates about higher education, we're not talking about what our obligations are in the National Education Strategy and whether they're going towards a plan of action. The minister who's been here since recently, I don't mind him saying that in the German education system, high school is more dominant than professional schools. That's what our National Education Strategy says, that's exactly where we're headed. It's just a question of whether anyone's working on that plan. On the other hand, the EU declares its main priority in the 2020 strategy an investment in education. We here from the government's representatives every day listen to a public sector interpretation, including education, as naked consumers who support some kind of private sector and threaten to further cut education budgets. So I'm not an optimist at all. With this legislative activity in parliament, when it comes to higher education, with what is being prepared for us through austerity measures, I am not optimistic that higher education and education in Serbia at all await better days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24047	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24048	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and colleagues from the ministry, today's exposure cannot begin in a good mood. Namely, as my colleagues before me also spoke to my colleague Lucic, within a year, we have met for the second time already with proposals concerning amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. This is not the first time in this House that the same laws change quickly, within just a few months. All we need to remember is the National Bank Act that's been changed within three months twice. It should also be recalled in the previous weeks, when we adopted the Law on Public Property by an emergency procedure, or you only adopted because you didn't remember in time that the deadline was due now for the weekend, a deadline that was 24 months. My basic question in this part of my presentation concerns the planning and organisation of the work that each of us is doing. Why is this law proposed late? You'll agree, today, October 7th, we're discussing the things we should have adopted, which is what you had to propose long before October 1st, before the academic year began. There has been enough time throughout the summer, during September, for this parliament to discuss in a relaxed and working atmosphere the deadlines, to spare students, to spare their families the fears of whether and how they will enter the year, whether they will be on the budget or have to move to self-financed students. So, I'm intimidated by the government's inability to assume events just a week ahead. It happens often, too often. I hope it doesn't happen again in the future. You yourself said you didn't want to repeat the mistakes of the past. That's what you said in public, though, about a small graduation and a scandal that was about a small graduation. It seems to me that in this situation and in these events you have trampled the word you gave back then in public, you will not repeat the mistakes of the past. It has just been a mistake from the past, and they are unfortunately very often repeated, regardless of what you are trying to do, obviously you are not doing it anymore. You're proposing this law by emergency procedure, so now, not weeks, two or three, or a month ago. Was it a big problem to assume that the academic year began on October 1st? I hope you'll give me some answers to these questions. Although you have already established, by an urgent procedure, the existence of the Academy of Security over which the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, or the Security and Information Agency, and not the Ministry of Education, as it says in the light of this bill. Why didn't you take advantage of this opportunity and put some amendments to the Higher Education Act, such as the emergency procedure? Nostration of diploma? I know my colleagues have talked about it before and that you've announced a new law that's being prepared, and I believe that it will cover all of this, but there's no explanation and there's no reason why you didn't do it now. If there are places in an emergency procedure to establish the Academy of Security, then there should be places in the emergency procedure and to facilitate the nostrification of diplomas for hundreds and thousands of students, or finished diplomats to renowned universities and universities in the world waiting for the nostrification of diplomas. So, I'm interested in why some questions about an emergency procedure, and some, which seem to be much more important to the everyday life of our fellow citizens, are simply not for an emergency procedure? I hope you'll answer that question for me. Furthermore, I can't look back on that Pisa test for which you gave some explanation and gave an answer, but I still have to admit that it made me uncomfortable by constantly repeating the same mistakes. So last year, we had a story about the P.I.S. test. You said you wouldn't make mistakes again. This year, the same mistake has happened again. You may not be responsible for that, but the very position you're in right now, and the job you're doing right now means you're also taking responsibility for some things that directly you're not responsible for, but your team, which you probably inherited from your predecessor. I wonder how this problem will be solved. I see in the media that there will be resources for the PISA testing, but what I don't see is an explanation of how. You also said that education is not a cost, but an investment. I don't see it, simply, in these legal proposals and in your works, I don't see it so far and they don't see any citizens. The first exam you will have to pass on this will be next year's budget. Here we will see specifically in the figures how much your commitment is to treat education as an investment, not as a cost solidly, and how much you can negotiate with your partners in the government, that it really does. Believe me, there is no thing that MPs in this house and citizens can agree on, such as education. My colleague, Dejan Nikolic, said that the DS arm for co-operation on this issue has been provided. That we are at our disposal, as we have shown, because six months and more ago, we proposed a legal solution for nostrification and acceleration of the nostrification of diploma. The fact that your predecessors, or members of your team, are not working to accept it from the opposition party, I think that practice must stop if you want good to this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24049	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24050	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will do so briefly because during this debate today, much more has been said than was the subject of the debate itself. I look forward to the fact that Mr. Toma Jovanovic, a professor at the Medical Faculty, is a man who has all the qualities in the class from before, so he said this along with my colleague Poskurica. What the two of them said gave hope that education in this country would finally come from a dead end. I'm very glad I heard from both of them that it's planned to think about ranking colleges. I think that ranking a university and based on what's called an exact fact, an exact data index of the success of what some college or university are schooling, is a key piece of information for what's called quality in education and quality in education and quality in human education without colleges, or universities taking their place, can't be expected to be what's called high-level education. The new colleges that are being founded, of course, I have nothing against them, but they have to be ranked along with these. To be ranked, they must have programs, they must have traditions, they must be introduced somewhere into some streams that mean quality, which mean what they've studied so far, what they've done, and what they deserve to get into the society of the great famous and famous. I really want quality to be respected and it goes in the way that only quality can be scored and respected, and these are the results of what every university has studied. So, the personnel that were used, who gave their country and a particular job, some contribution. I would like there not every day in Serbia to be the subject of managers and management and to buy, sell, charge, bring a strategic partner, but to go sometimes in the opposite direction. To use already educated experts and to be able to use what we've already done over the past few years and to use them to create some new value, that we don't have to import everything from the outside. By importing 20, 25 experts without references that will later show that they also know how to lead the state, to fly a plane, without experience, without any knowledge of it. So, the more a man knows, the more careful he gets into a story of professionalism, a story called making a contribution to the development of a society and state. As far as these deadlines are concerned, I really think that's where the college caricatures are coming in, because I recently heard a student who has four exams in one day. I think it's really a cartoon of everything called science. In a time of study when there were 12 deadlines in medicine, I think that college just had a high quality, because I'm sorry, one exam specifically a thousand-and-a-half physiology can't be taken once, so in six months, you have the right to take it again. After all, then there was a condition not 48 or 50 points or 60, but all the exams passed and then it went into the next year. Another small intervention, since the students are watching us, I received a student question from the Association of Students in Čačka who have one doubt, and it is related to colleagues enrolled in 2009 and 2010 in four-year studies in 2010 and 2011 in three-year studies. Both end the same year, i.e. become graduates of the same year. The first ones are allowed to be an graduate, and others are not, so they are in doubt, and they have failed from professional services to find out whether or not they have the right to a paid insolvency internship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24051	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24052	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, few MPs, today we have had the opportunity to testify again what the obstruction of parliamentary work by the parliamentary majority and the SNS looks like. Today we have no answer why there is no understanding to accept the DS proposal to discuss this law on higher education together with the Law on Prostrification of diplomas. You're sending a bad message, gentlemen of the SNS, to the whole world, what Lazar Krstic is going to say to his colleagues at Yale -- I'm back in Serbia, but the party that invited me back doesn't want to nostrify my diploma or let me do it, because I want to work with high school. This is what the SNS wants, because it persistently refuses the stubborn DS proposal to put a law on the agenda on the nostrification of diplomas. We will not ask him what happened to his diploma, as we asked Tomislav Nikolic, because we believe he graduated from the schools he applied for when he was employed as minister of finance of the Republic of Serbia. It is, unfortunately, a picture and a mirror of the SNS and it cannot even correct "concluse master", a candidate for the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which has now entered the hall to explain it a little more. I have a few things to ask, excuse me, Mr. Minister, which I won't ask you, you've only been here 30 days, and I think you're one decent man who has the best intentions when it comes to education and the subject of my controversy is this party that is obstructing parliamentary work, the SNS. First of all, let me ask you -- what does the Republic of Serbia want with the Security Academy? What kind of thing is that? Whose genius idea is that? I've been listening a little while ago to how you've been trying to read your political reports that someone else wrote to you, and I haven't found a letter of explanation about what the safety academy is going to do, how long will it be, what will those personnel be doing in it? So, for 30 years, there will be some piece of the Academy of Security produced and we'll get security engineers every year for 30 years, and in 10 years, every MP will have his world spy, Alex Žunić, who will probably follow him. I don't understand what 250 security engineers are going to be doing in this country in 10 years? Do you want to maybe shoot the second part of "Pro", so you need extras? Are you going to college to enroll them? Why not bring Nusic back to life and write the second part of "Subject face". There is Duško Kovacevic, there is "Professor" to work as "Sulajman the Great", how many staff we will have, but right there at that academy to introduce musically and teach them a song by Bajaga "The Falling Government" and that is the only benefit from that academy we can have. I don't see any other benefits from that academy. You know what it's about, I'm going to explain to you, what are the characteristics of dictatorial systems and what does every dictator do? First he grabs himself a nickname that no one else in history has ever had, and then he creates a Praetorian guard. If you don't believe me, race in the library and see "Imperatator August", "King of the Sun", "Luj 14", "General Lissimus", Stalin, "Marshov Broz", "PPV", "Alex the Great".
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24053	Mr. Milivojevic, please don't, let's finish the debate as it has been going on so far, in the end you have to salt it, so you salt it, and I have to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24054	I'm sorry, sir, if you don't understand me, I'll translate it like this, in accordance with the law, Mr. Secretary, accept the DS amendment and delete this academy of security, because we don't have any public debate about this, we have no parallel experience. Let's hear these geniuses who have their own academy in the world? MOSAD, KGB, French, Germans, because that's where these courses last for two or three weeks, and that's where they pick people from college. When they graduate from the best college, they choose the best, then take them to specialist courses, further training, advancement and progress through work in the ministry, not to educate their spies. What country do we live in? Last time you were in power, the D.B.A.'s office executed an assassination at the Ibaric Master's Office, we had a death squadron paid for, where an officer was waiting for you, now on a counter with a police uniform and you could have ordered the murder of any political opponent in a man wearing a police uniform. To remind you of the tragic fate of Slavko Curuvija, Ivan Stambolic, the assassination of the Ibari Masteral, who will be professors at that academy, whether you knock on the door of forgotten aces. Some of them will be professors at the academy? I don't trust you or your politics or your academy. Such an academy serves to introduce dictatorship in Serbia, but let's get back to this, which is why there are 30,000 students in Serbia right now. In the case of education, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, the best view is the situation of the tragedy that occurred in this country after the murder of Zoran Djindjic, because education is the mirror of this society. Education got the biggest swing since October 5, 2000, and it's the most done, and that's where we quickly returned to the world. We've abolished the most embarrassing university law you've brought in last time. We've passed a normal university law. We have returned Belgrade University to the society of European universities where it belongs. Is there a better indicator of our tragedy than education? You want me to read you a message that a citizen sent me. The best comment of the Law on Education and the state of education today is the following – I am sick of Srdjane long ago, do you think it is easy for me to school my daughter in two colleges both in private and in state because I do not know which will be valid when my daughter is finished and which will be respected more. It is today a mirror of education in Serbia. Of course, the era of education in Serbia, modern education, began with one Obradovic and ended with one Obradovic. Only that first one was called Dossy, and this one was called The Light. I don't want to talk about it, we said enough when we asked for his resignation. I won't even talk about the degree of the President of the Republic who has yet to further degrade this country's education system. Why is that bothering you? Where do you get a better example of education than one man's diploma? Since you are asking me to read to you what one of the founders of the DS said when it comes to education, mind is now neglected for the expense of patience. They boast and reward the traits of slaves. The school is becoming a huge exercise of obedience. Knowledge that is acquired perfectly useless, not so much by its kind as by its incompetence and absence in general. For those who rarely go to the library and want to be academics, Borislav Pekic. Unfortunately, this was written on August 20, 1955. Now look at 60 years after where our education is. I'll continue for those who rarely go to the library. The brain of a graduate resembles a commission of a shop where the spiritual sizes of the past belong to a beggar stick, left for sale of the valuables of his private life. You've reduced history to numbers and it's dedicated to itself, not the future. And a lot of good things Borislav Pekic said when it comes to education but not only in this essay there is a "Golden Age of Dialogue" which he wrote and there is the same nice sentence that I have to quote, because of Pekic, not because of you. "The lack of the past is going to run out of the future, but if we stay there, if we get stuck there, the future that we came back to it will become unattainable, it will be before we realize that everything is present, that everything is always on the same level where the lack of understanding of what was yesterday's guarantee that we will understand even less what is waiting for us, and at least what we are doing today. “ What can I tell you today about education? Today is Balzak Lakaj who only needs to lead us to Jacob Ignatovic. Today, His Majesty is ours instead of being part of the world's literature. Not to tell you that our kids are learning numbers today, not how to learn how to apply in real life. Our education system essentially contains many faults, that it didn't formally move far away, that it had a flash and a lift from 2000 to 2003 then again experienced a sunflower. What can I tell you, here's to those who don't understand me, a little bit more, because you don't understand. A Greek 15 - year - old at Socrates’ time was more than a 30 - year - old man. (President: Mr. Milivoevich, please, I ask you to return to the agenda. () How do we today have education? We have education that makes us experts. What about the experts, also from our education, someone said, a great man, but I'm forbidden to quote him, so I'll take it as my thought. I apologize to him for borrowing his thought, because I'm not such a big intellectual after all. But today I really think that our education produces experts, but this expert, today marks a man who in all his things outside his profession, absolute, will not say what, let's say, ignorant, and in the profession of a model amateur, by producing model ignorants who are loyal to the system, and whose creativity is threatened, a vision of progress is created, and the cassation in the place becomes evidence of it. Our education gives us personnel who gallop in place, don't cough. Serbia with such galloping in the city. And finally, what I'm saying is, you can't stubbornly reject DS proposals, because we want to improve education. Not because education is the basis on which the reform of a society rests, not because we want education to be reduced to reading the referendums on the Titanic deck where you took the first class cabin for yourself, we want education to be a real generator of change in our society. Could education be the generator of change in our society if you treat Pekic this way, and this way with education and if you are irritated by one word of the founder of DS. And for the end of this exhibition, I will quote again the great Pekic - who cannot be destroyed in the opposition should be allowed to be destroyed in power. ‘Golden fleece’. The only problem is that today those in power are destroying themselves and Serbia, so they don't need to be released, today the target is the same distance, as our people would say, we haven't moved much, and "Golden Flee" is getting smaller and you've taken scissors to cut the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24055	Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24056	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you one thing, if you can now, if you don't, consult the record and tell me in what minute since the 13, 14, 15 minutes since the previous speaker spoke about the law, the proposed law that we are discussing today? What does it take to be a reminder, and not to use a congregation pay phone for political pamphlets and political rallying, but to do his job? For you, Mr. Minister, your first congregation experience and I think we share a common opinion, something that is not taught in any school, and it should be missing, and that's domestic education, and I think that's something that's missing from the previous speaker. I'm a graduated engineering engineer, I really don't know much, maybe I admit that I don't know anything and that's what professionals should do, that's what people who are trained to do for it, but today we've seen and heard the rallying of fellow agricultural engineers, I guess graduated as well as I, talk about safety. We can't let everything go wrong if there's a connection between him and security just because he's a former BIA director from the same city as Mr. Milivojevic. One thing I can't accept when a dictator calls for a dictatorship and complains about dictatorship. Don't look at the media, and they're full of DS and DS representatives, let's call on the ambassador of a democratic country, and that's Mr. Kirby, the US ambassador to Serbia who said there's a dictatorship in Serbia, could Dragan Gilas every day criticise SNS and Alexander Vukic, but we shouldn't, we can't listen to anyone, we'll just listen to agricultural security or vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24057	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24058	So I understand that from the opposition's point of view we should criticise what's on the agenda, and of course there are some more extreme approaches to that assessment and I'm not contesting it. However, we could not agree with the view that education has flourished from 2001 to 2003, on the contrary, it is the subjective attitude of the respected Mr Milivojevic, but the attitude of many today in Serbia is quite the opposite of the facts that can prove what I am saying, but I will not waste time on that. The second question, the mention of Zarko Obradovic, the previous minister of education in a negative context than the respected Mr Milivojevic, is incorrect if he compares himself to the praise of the same minister in the period from 2008 to 2010. There are stenograms, I have remembered some words of praise in Mr Milivojevic's performances, with very chosen, beautiful words, with an eloquent one performance where Professor Milivojevic ascended. Dr. Zarko Obradovic as minister. I remind myself that it should not be forgotten, even if he does not forget, regardless of what I certainly respect and respect Milivojevic as an opposition MP who has a duty to criticise, but has a duty to remember what he said before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24059	Mr. Milivojevic, I will not give you the replica because you have challenged, therefore, the word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24060	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are at the end of this debate and listening especially to the MPs of the majority, the impression is that everything is fine. We talk about problems, yes, every August we talk about raspberries, so they strike a little bit, and eventually a solution is found, and here every September, we talk about points, so the rest of the year we're talking about having solid criteria that everyone has to meet, and in the end everybody knows we're going to give in under the pressure of these or those. Of course, it can't be our students' fault that this is the situation. Today, I think, with this law, we come to a limit of the absurdity of this House's work, because what does this proposed law say? That's two points. One item is to reduce the number of points necessary to move to next year, and today, here we are, talking about it, everyone has already signed up. The first act of the new minister instead of providing, since the minister has been for 30 days, which is that legal things change in time and that registration is done in a legal way, was, unfortunately, to invite colleges to break the laws. Today we're discussing something that's already happened. Do we need to continue to mock our own work and key institutions of democracy, because the second item in this law is to form an institution already formed on 30 April this year. If it's already formed, is it formed by law? If it's not legal, what right did it operate from April 30th to today? This is especially important because it is an institution that is at the heart of the security system. If the security system allows itself to form some institutions under the law, then how can we trust its activity to the citizens? With these amendments and additions to the law, we seem to have reached the point of absurdity. We're asked to vote for things that have already happened. I ask you, is it the idea of your rule that we continue like this, that things play out where they don't belong? What can be the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they see someone playing with the Assembly here? It's not a flawed institution, but if we don't respect it ourselves, if most people don't say it at a given time -- executive authorities, what you've done here, we don't let you mock those who put you up to it, then there's no development of democracy in our country. Don't be surprised, then, if we ask the question of the good order of our country and the risk of skating towards the authoritarian regime. With what right is he who runs this agency, and today he's the Secretary of Defense, made this institution? We'd like him to be here today, to explain to us what laws he's been working under, who's been paying for it? How could the Treasury pay for it? Not to mention one exception being made here by the proposed amendment... We have now heard from the head of the parliamentary group who submitted the amendment, Mr Babic, that he has submitted an amendment to a matter he knows nothing about. That's what you said. Well, then who dictated this amendment to you? Tell us, what is this interest, if it is not an MP who is in his legal capacity, that, by his conscience and, first of all, he suggests to his knowledge, to amend the law that his majority proposed a few days ago, a few hours ago? Isn't this absurd, too? We have people who officially and publicly tell us – I wrote something with which I have absolutely nothing to do with it. We know you like water polo. We know that. I don't know what your activity was and your successes in that very noble sport, but I do know that it would be directed to talk in this home about things that have to do with the law and what has to be the future. I guess this is where we're supposed to fix it, not cover the illegal actions of the executive. Think about it well, because when these boundaries are considered stretching, when someone gives himself the right to throw away some text to parliament in this way, don't be afraid of anything, we'll cover it later, then anything is possible. I am afraid that this way of work offers nothing good to our citizens and that is one method of governance that has been confirmed in the past few months, which is extremely worrying. If we're looking at the essence of things, here's another law that's another moment of stasis and recognition of one system's dysfunction. How many times after the raspberries are we going to deal with the downsizing of the number of points? How many times? Shall we do it next year? Do we want 48 again? Since students and teachers and parents are not naive and they see well and the behavior of this home and this government, above all. Don't tell us we should just have words of praise for the predecessor. We've been talking for the past year and a half and before about the problems that existed. Number two of the parties in power is no longer a minister. The prime minister, as it was said, gave it up. Well, I guess there were some reasons for that. Why is the number two of your party, which was four years old, almost five, the minister of education, no longer a minister? During the reconstruction, you gave us no argument. All we know is that he resigned. Well, okay, but we have another minister today, and we don't know why. If everything was as good as you say, why is the number two largest parties in your coalition no longer a minister, obviously against his will? He even spoke openly about it and let it serve him as an honor. We haven't really talked here today about what's supposed to stop our students, their parents. What's the real situation? The real situation is that the percentage of people with higher education has increased. That's right. Six and something's up to 10.6%. Let me remind you, two years ago the front page of the American and international magazine "Time" was- America in fear, competitors take over the world's leadership. The key argument was that, unlike one Korea that has 50% higher education, America is only about 40%. One Portugal, which was behind us 20 years ago, is now three times higher in the percentage of highly educated. That's what we need to talk about, and especially because that increase from 6% to 10.59% didn't go without controversy. Yes, we also have people who are in high state functions who would be very difficult to explain how they graduated. We also have advisors from the prime minister who suddenly rose as graduates from some London universities, where they obviously didn't set foot. It's an extra mockery. Not to mention that the prime minister finds us nothing more interesting for freshman day than to go to a private university that has declared that private universities should be free of charge. Absurd stuff. And that's where we got the absolute absurde, you led him to absurde. We must go and ask the question of the adequateness of higher education. A system that leads to half the young people not having a job can't be any form of praise. Nobody here deserves any praise. This is a critical situation, where half those who come to find a job can't find it. It's a little better with people who have higher or higher education diplomas, but we know it's not great. Well, the current minister admitted that his mother's college doesn't actually produce an optimal number of diplomats every year. It is a public secret that at the Medical School and Belgrade, a number of professors do not get their turn to teach for years. We have an inverse pyramid where there are fewer who end up as a general practitioner, and we know that we have a major deficit in many parts of our country and that we have a huge inflation of those with specializations that are not needed, but that's a strong lobby. It's a strong lobby. There's always someone to articulate it and say there's not even enough specialists in that domain. Don't you have to wonder, since you're running the state today, and DS has never led a five-cotbar change as a party education. That's one of our mistakes for the last ten years, that's what I've been saying. I guarantee you we won't make that mistake in the future. Between 2001 and 2003, there was progress and much resistance, but at least progressed and worked, experimented. It's been stuck ever since. Today, the situation is that we continue to produce on the side and the state colleges of the army of people we all already know in advance that there will be no jobs. It's the worst thing we can do to them, to get a degree that we all know in advance won't be sanctioned by success on the labour market. We really need to stop and look forward to the DS for talking about higher education again. It's not good that this is the key to lawmaking every other year. It was voted in 2005, so it changed in 2007, then in 2008, then in 2010, then in 2012 and now in 2013, twice, but it doesn't matter, it's less difficult than finding the right solution to the real challenges we have in our higher education. Today we're talking about this as if tomorrow the government won't tell which professors, teachers will get paid. It's waiting for us as long as tomorrow, 10:00 in the morning. That's the situation. Solid tax seems to be primarily on the burden of those who need to teach our children and our students. What happened to your own university incomes? That debate where tuition goes, it's never closed, but their money's been taken. What we, as an opposition, would want to hear is what happens to our system and when these changes change? What's going on for the 2014 budget? You can't convince us, which is a minor problem, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that your knowledge comes first, because you all voted in favour of a rebalancing that reduced by another two billion dinars of the science budget. For the first time since October 5th, scientists have been on the street twice. It's not their thing. For the first time since October 5th, they get funding for material costs without which they can't work just when there's a lot of noise, they come out on the street, and they break in the media. In fact, this ministry and this government can only react to that. It's the only way to pay the membership fee for the magazines that our scientists need. There's only so little money, not enough money for a Petnica. We paid our membership fee in Cern anyway. It's a reality, and on all of that, two billion dinars less with a perspective for next year, which is certainly very, very worrying. Where there's money, where the previous government found ways to provide equipment, spending, a number of capital investments, what's your performance? A periodical center in Svilinc, which should prepare every year for our founding that as their peers everywhere in Europe see how the country formed, to see something about paleontology, to see little how life evolved, to see these very popular dinosaurs, which are only one way we can bring the youngest into that matter. For months, you've been looking for crime where it's gone. You've been refusing to give our children a chance for months. A park on Starry, a 20-year concrete apparition, finished, 16,000 first-class space, you can't open it. Provided funds on bloc 26 in Belgrade for 139 families waiting 10 years to get a roof over their heads, no one to finish that building. So, what's the problem? Six months Project Management Unit, one project hasn't started. One dollar to finish things didn't provide. There's no money, and where there's money, you don't do anything. Nothing at all. Our scientists come to half of this call that was concluded for the period 2010/2014. years without having any support or resources for what was the prerequisite that we could even rank them and value them. If this is the attitude towards teachers, to scientists, we should not be surprised that such a relationship is then re-enacted to students. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that we agree on some things, which is that Serbia has no future without knowledge, so if you will and because there is nothing else. We don't have a choice. In the 21st century rich nations are like Korea... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... And the South was no richer than the North. It's a resource we need to secure... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... You gave 30 seconds more. You'll give it to me. (President: Well, I'll let you finish your thought, just to tell you that time has been spent.) I know you like to interrupt me, but I know what time is, and I'm bringing it to an end. I would ask you to try in the future, in the interest of the nation, not to discuss the absurdity of laws that no longer exist, because things have already happened and to discuss real problems and to try in the months to come, at this neural point, in this domain that is only and only the future of our country, to find together as much courage as it takes and the means to get the situation out of this hopelessness. You'll have that DS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24061	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24062	The previous speaker said one sentence – you're looking for crime where it's not there. I agree that everyone until proven guilty of being innocent. That's the basic principle. But why are you so nervous? No crime, no convictions, all innocent. Great. There's no reason to be nervous. I don't think we're talking about any safety laws today. We're talking about amendments to the Higher Education Act. If it is security, I would be happy to ask my colleague, Jadranka Joksimovic, to give you such a day-long lecture. I'm sure from her expertise, knowledge and everything she can do, she'll benefit you. I won't answer my word anymore, except I'll say two things. SNS obstruction has been observed. Today I apologized on behalf of three colleagues who were late for a session at 10.00 hours due to traffic problems. I apologized to the students and citizens of Serbia, but the obstruction is when he insists on some law and is present in the O.R., and the cards are not inserted due to petty political points of obstruction of an hour or an hour and a half. I will end up with Mr. Pekic's sentence, according to which I have great respect that can read – what they failed to destroy while they were in power, they beat up in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24063	The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24064	Article 107 has been injured. Mr Djelic probably, not deliberately said that DS did not participate in education...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24065	Please, Mr. Shane, don't rephrase, you've advertised the Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24066	I think that this debate at the end when we came to face what is once again the sad truth of everything that's going on and how incompetent and bad the government has been doing, we've again faced throws, insults and all those ugly things that you haven't responded to in the chairman's office. An MP from the ruling majority persistently shouts out of his bench how he will process us. I am telling you, not to him, that it is not only below every level and not only in the model of their behaviour and thinking, but that they are persistently showing who they are and what they are and how they imagine the rule of law and the state of Serbia in which they live and function as MPs. I repeat, not to you personally, since I have appealed to including the President of the Assembly – do not allow the DS link anymore because that path and that boomerang that throws at us will be returned to them multiple times. You weren't able to bring your MPs in, and then you started accusing the DS. This has nothing to do with security, but it's your amendment and how to deal with security. Please don't bring us Jadranka Joksimovic, if you know God. Third thing, withdraw that amendment to make this law what it should be, first of all, something that helps our students, regardless of what you ignored the issue of nostrification, but at least pull that thing that has nothing to do with the higher education system in Serbia, which my colleagues have shown very effectively. That's what you can do useful for this country and this Parliament. (President: Time.) ) Anything else, these prosecutors and amateur officers should practice within their main committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24067	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24068	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I agree that we will all support the students. So instead of five, we're going to have six deadlines, instead of 50 points, we're going to have 48 points, but the big question is whether it's going to solve our higher education problem. Will this higher education be more accessible, will they have enough money? I think we have talented and smart and students and professors. The problem is the country we found and the big problem is, is there even a country in this country? Our energy is within us. If we don't organize a country that we found in our own mess, no one on our side but ourselves will help us. It can't be high school education, especially higher education, to be out of social flows and the negative social phenomena that have arisen, to say, since the early 1990s, to this day. Listening to some of my colleagues, I almost thought that this country had now been led by Martians, so all the negative phenomena have occurred in the last year, including those who have been touching higher education. They had a chance to organize their country the way they organized it. Our students and our teachers, wherever they go, are considered talented and successful. It's the only success they can't make in their country and I don't think there's anything up to students or professors, all up to ourselves, to our energy and our organization. I can't agree that this country is dictatorial, that it has a dictator. In order for the state to have a dictator, one person must be president of the state, president of the republic and president of the party. From Boris Tadic, we don't have a statesman like that here. If I were to add that one dictator, to be a successful dictator, and to be considered a dictator by others, would have to be distinguished by another dictator. After the medal Boris Tadic received from Gaddafi, I don't know any dictator in Serbia who received a medal from another dictator. It is the last man with these markings that the dictator must have, whom I have met and happily accompanied into political past, and as far as I can see he did not answer to his own party, because they soon after the end of that dictatorship, when it is a tree of freedom, as Borislav Pekic said broken, as he said on March 9th, it should be broken...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24069	Mr. Risticevic, I must warn you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24070	Okay. I apologize to you, too, and to the late Pekic, for being forced to quote him. I move on to what is the topic of the availability of higher education. Since I'm the president of the People's Peasants' Party, I think this law that we're changing should be complemented soon by another one. It is necessary to enable students from the interior, students from the village, students from working families who are getting smaller, almost toes can be counted by students from agricultural households, positive discrimination should be allowed. I have proposed such amendments, but they have been declared unconstitutional. Certain groups are also positively discriminated against, and I think anyone who comes from the village, anyone who comes from a working family, should be positively discriminated against, to give him a certain number of points in advance, because it's not the same when the college is around the corner and it's not the same when you travel there every day and back three to four hours from home to college. In those three, four hours during the study you spend on the road you can minors and graduate from college. If you don't want to travel for two, three or more hours, if you live inside, then you have to have parents with money, and such parents who have decent salaries are getting less and less. I think the time has come, if not now, and in the future, this law should be adapted to these social circumstances, and especially should be favored by students who come from within the village, who will study agriculture, the food industry, or professions employed in agriculture, processing and the food industry. Only this kind of organization can we help students and the state. We can also combine education and population policy. That way we can revive the village. If they return to the country with this acquired knowledge and do not travel like those traveling agronomies who have traveled I do not know how far to reach the village, only by their knowledge can they help themselves and their neighbors. I will continue to stand up for this, for this kind of positive discrimination, not only for the rural population, not only for the working families, but for other vulnerable groups, the disabled, who at this point seem to me, and that Mr. Shane knows better than I do, have some kind of positive discrimination. I don't think it's against the constitution. Finally, to conclude, many greats were born in the country, many elementary schools ended up in the country, many scientists, many artists, and the rights of sin would be to keep these ideas from being translated into action someday. Borislav Pekic himself came from Bavanica to Belgrade, where he graduated from high school and later from college. In the end, this is a highly educated person in the National Assembly who shows to the people what he thinks about both the National Assembly and the people who represent the National Assembly. Boris Pekic, who studied clinical psychology, certainly did not encounter such a sample of a highly educated person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24071	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24072	There are various things in our parliamentary life. Some people and phenomena succeed every time to overcome all miracles so far seen in this congregation. It is fortunate that this congregation is not abounding in that. I think it's too much for the average citizen of Serbia to follow this horror that is repeated in slow motion. What is certain is that several universes of parallel collided in a situation when the previous speaker spoke of higher education. That's for sure. What is also certain, I do not report for him, Boris Tadic, never in the story, nor in the joke, nor in the leap, nor in the lack of their culture and education can he be in the same sentence with the word dictator. He is a democratically elected man and a very frigolent, broad definition of dictatorship really amused me, but I must say that there are also some current people who have led this country, who have received medals from Vojislav Seselj. Does that make them a dictator, perhaps at the time? What's certain is that dictatorship has no shape. It does not exist in Serbia, but unfortunately the citizens of Serbia, the path we walk slowly leads us into the system. The dictatorship may also be at the free elections for man to win. The dictatorship can also mean a few free media. The dictatorship can also mean a situation where those who are against criminals, those who are the only ones who are right and right. I think you, as chairman here, have heard terrible things in the last six, seven minutes that should not be looked at, but it is very harmful to draw people out, their honorary names and their honorable biographies and put them in context by those who laugh in the Lambs while 80,000 dead lie before them. It's below every level.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24073	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24074	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of article 96 that says that MPs are alternately, given whether they support or dispute the proposal, as stated in the application for the word, are reporting for the word. I think Mr. Risticevic was registered as 25, then I guess he went to buy Orbit gum, so he went back to the O.R. when I was talking, and then he missed Mr. Djelic. I don't have any problem with him being a rat master, he's a candidate for SNS president, and he needs such an intellectual gromada to give us a lecture. A member of 107 who says the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly at the meeting of the National Assembly. Its legitimate right to show the middle finger to the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia, to go to the Jayance, and to laugh with the president of Serbia at victims and gunmen. It's his legitimate right. That's what he says about him, not us. Let's not let him make a farm out of the National Assembly. There are no vets here, just cattlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24075	Mr. Milivoevich, you're partly right. As for the order of speakers, but the established practice, you asked for it, we satisfied the change of order, the replacement of the name of the person, for justifiable reasons Marian could not attend, and then according to the Rules of Procedure, it was envisaged that he could only speak in the end and that is why I gave him my word. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and you can, if you want, make a statement in the voting day whether or not a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24076	We heard different definitions of dictatorship, but somehow in all these definitions, it could be a sign of equality with Serbia by May 2012. Was the dictatorship when one man was everything, and the president of the state, and the Prime Minister, and the president of the political party, or was the dictatorship when in the difficult elections, very difficult, and in difficult conditions won by Tomislav Nikolic, so he resigned and left the SNS he made? Because he wants to, and because he acts as president of all citizens, not as president of one political group. Is dictatorship when a politician owns the media, as we've seen from some recently shut down newspapers? Is dictatorship when the president of the political party owns a complete media space in one country? What's a dictatorship? That? Is the dictatorship when, and I took part in the formation of SNS and, thank God, now on October 21st, it's going to be five years since the founding of SNS, we've been fighting, when in red letters we recorded, when we could, when we got to some media by May 2012, when we couldn't get past the building of RTS and other media? Is it dictatorship that you own the media? Put your finger on your forehead before you put a definition of dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24077	Mr. Risticevic, I won't give you a replica. You're the one who caused the replica. I didn't give Mr. Milivojevic a replica because he caused a replica. You have no right to a replica. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24078	I hope we finish this one round of senselessness that imposes SNS. I hope so. In fact, it was so terrible in that dictatorship that today the man you're defending is in Serbia, but we're not talking about him, he's an English queen. We're talking about your boss. That man is everything in Serbia as you said. We have a British former ambassador who says that's about what it looks like when you're already calling on an American that it's not like that. You know what, it's now on Serbian citizens that they'll understand and accept and eventually reject. It is a curiosity that we all today in Serbia have welcomed that the former radicals are calling on the US ambassador. That's progress. It's a big deal. What's the same terrible thing you do all the time, which is how DS, you insinuate, controls media space. We're super-controlling him. Every day we're on the cover of the tabloids, and our people are arrested without a foundation. I'm just asking you -- where is it, what kind of control is it, what kind of situation is it when there's only one man on all channels, Alexander Vukic? Otherwise, "the tree is not free", I must say in the end, said Mihiz, not Pekic. You don't understand, because it's not on the farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24079	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24080	I'll agree that I made a lapus and it was Michiz. I listened to that speech, but actually about dictatorship, that tree is not freedom, etc. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. If you say we'll end up with a replica, I'm willing to give up this replica with only one correction, I'm saying that in a picture with a middle finger, shown to the National Assembly, it's not me, it's Srdjan Milivojevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24081	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica and we end up with a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24082	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I understand the concern of colleagues, it's not easy from 25, 26% at 15, 16, so at five, six, so fighting for censorship, well below the censorship, you know, and when you get used to benefits, cars, cabinets, wages, travel, it's hard. It's hard when it's rocking, you know, it's immediately working out some impulses, it's working out some hate, it's working out something that's a grandfather, but it's not the state of Serbia's heritage, it's all citizens. It's not just your grandfather's DS. Somehow you've lost your answer to the question... Until a month ago, DS President Dragan Gilas said that Aleksandar Vukic is the best SNS to support the fight against corruption, that everything Mr. Vukic does is good. What is it all of a sudden? How did we get all this out of one piece of praise into dictatorship all of a sudden? What's that fear? What kind of knowledge is that? What's that? I understand howling in politics and looking for the way, not finding the opposition, slowly, the time is ahead of you. The first 20 years in the opposition are hard, you'll get used to it, I'm not worried about you. After 20 years, everything will be fine, but let's just see what the reasons are for the change in policies from day to day, between morning and evening. What is it that between what's best in the SNS, of course it's the best for it and the president of the SNS, suddenly we get to the Queen of England or the insult of that guy? Gentlemen, this speaks more of you than of SNS and Alexander Wolfich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24083	We're done with the replicas, please. We won't do it anymore. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right? The word is made by Minister Tomislav Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24084	Dear President, honourable MPs, I think I have a duty to present a few misunderstandings or misunderstandings of what is, of course, of the best intention. My first working day as a minister was to attend a meeting with CONUS. When views were expressed regarding the reduction of this famous loan to 48, then I asked KONUS and the Student Organization to organise a joint meeting and present a proposal. They only did it on September 16th. On Monday, October 14th, the school year begins for the second and more years of study. On September 30th and October 1st, the school year began for the first year. As you know, all of us who have passed the studies, after the October deadline that ends on Friday, begins the school year for the second and more years. We sent instructions to the students, or the colleges were instructed to register candidates who could enroll after this adoption of amendments to the law. A candidate is enrolled when he enrolls in the university's major book records. The candidates for enrolment are now registered. For what? I'm telling you this responsibly, because I'm, by chance, not by accident, but by intentional head of the Department of Physiology of the Medical Faculty. We've got a list of potential candidates so we can organize a course, prepare for the number of students, since my class is teaching and theoretically with 16 students, seminar classes and lectures. That's what we need to know. Of course, I insisted that we receive a proposal from KONUS and the Student Organization, which, due to their simultaneous obligations, had moved the discussion under the draft amendments to the law, and because of their terms, we had moved the deadline for adoption until 1 October, adoption of the final discussion or public discussion. At the second session of KONUS in Vrnjačka Banja, the president of the National Council, who supported on behalf of the National Council the proposal for students and KONUS, was present, so that the participation of the National Council was fully met. I am pleased that the Centre for the Promotion of Science the other day in the magnificent space of the National Bank of Serbia held a magnificent scientific gathering or promoted science, an international gathering attended by 14 ministers of education and a dozen ambassadors. I hope you weren't at that meeting, Mr. Djelic, but it was a magnificent gathering in the rooms of the National Bank of Serbia. Mrs. Drecun probably forgot to call you. We'll reprimand her. As far as Stargazer's Technology Park is concerned, my insistence is that he move in as soon as possible. My personal insistence is that this famous park, that the problems of property-legal in Svilinco are definitely solved and that it is given to the use of children. Of course, at the opening of the new cabinet building, in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia invested 80% of the funds, 20% of the province's government, I conveyed the government's message that despite the problems we have with the Technical Faculty in Novi Sad, we will continue and finish the second phase of the Technology Park in Novi Sad. I think that's what's been started and we have to keep going and get it over with. It's all started, and someone's got to finish. I'm going to insist and report that we have to do it after we finish it. I think there are a lot of people missing in Serbia, both medium-educated and highly educated. We need to do it together, say which way is missing. Our schools, both high and colleges, must adapt to new conditions, conditions to our market needs, and in particular we must not forget that what we have now is already recognised in the world. We have foreign students coming back again. This interest of tens of thousands of students to come to school with us is an indicator of that, but we will receive them, not immediately, but after we develop our options, according to their needs, so that these tens of thousands of students do not end up on one generation alone, but continue to expand cooperation in foreign students' education. We are already preparing for the Horizon 2020 Project. It's a new project assignment. The Committees and the Ministry have taken over to settle this and to apply in time for the next year for a new European project, which opens the door to competition for our scientists, to compete equally with everyone else in the framework of European projects that are major projects, high values, and give us equality, a fully equal role. Today I had a chance to hear, or through the discussion we heard a series of directions to the strategy. The education strategy has been adopted, and I thank you for a series of proposals that also represent the direction of the implementation of this strategy. The proposals were useful from all sides, and today, I am convinced, we have together sent a message of hope and certainty that education, science and technological development have hope and make sense in Serbia. We especially sent a message to the youngest, a message of tolerance. What we miss is missing the youngest, and I have to tell you about it. We have sent out all the messages, or you, and I have listened, a message of tolerance, an example of their reputation being the best, which they have achieved through education, culture and science, and that they must not be an example of those who do not respect tolerance, who do not recognise racial and any other differences, which, unfortunately, are slapped from all sides, both in the house and outside the house and in the means of information. If we are, and I am convinced that we have sent this message to the youngest, I thank you all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-07-0.u24085	Thank you, Minister. I'm finishing the initial search. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the People's General Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. You've got time in the material. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Borislav Stefanovic, president of the parliamentary group, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We continue our work on Wednesday, 9 October 2013, at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the joy of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Prof. Tomislav Jovanovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I also called on the session to attend: Dr. Slobodan Stupar, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Željka Knezevic, Secretary and Vesna Lukić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail in the first item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
