ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12054	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Donka Banovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of traffic, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Dejan Lasica, Assistant Minister of Transport Dragan Nesic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Transport and Branko Nedeljković, Head of the Railways Department. We continue to work and move on to a single search on the 6th item of the agenda - THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON CONFORMATION OF THE AMENDMENT AND THE COMPETITION OF THE CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADES (COTIF) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government, as well as reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF). Does the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of traffic, want a word? Yeah. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12055	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs and MPs, it is always an honor for me to speak in this high house about new laws, especially those that touch traffic and infrastructure in general. The COTIF Convention on International Railway Transportation was established by the Convention of International Railway Traffic and was adopted on 9 May 1980 in Bern with the aim of establishing a one-way legal system for the transport of passengers, luggage and goods in direct international rail traffic. At the same time, the countries signatories of the Konvecje established an international organisation for international rail transports of OTIF with the obligation to monitor and develop a single-wave legal system. The members of the organisation are all ervop countries, as well as Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia from Africa and Georgia, Iraq, Iran, Armenia, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey from Asia. So a total of 47 countries. The European Union joined the Convention on 1 July 2011. The COTIF Convention was preceded by the following three conventions in the area of international rail transport: the International Convention on the Transport of Railways to CIM 1970, the International Convention on the Transport of Passengers and Bags by Railway CIV of 1970 and the CIV Supplemental Convention on Railway Responsibility for the Death and Hurt of Passengers of 1976. Since its adoption in 1980, until today, the COTIF Convention has undergone several amendments, the most significant amendments in accordance with the 1999 Protocol, which, in addition to the transport of passengers and goods, extend to the area of car use, infrastructure use and all technical issues in the area of international rail transport in the part of the vehicle. The amendments subject to this Act relate to the further development of legal matter from the domain of the importance of this Convention, particularly in the part of the rules for the adoption of uniform technical descriptions and procedures for the approval and use of railway vehicles and other railways in international rail transport. Those amendments have been adopted by the regular authorities of OTIF and in accordance with the provisions of the COTIF Convention. In a narrow sense, they are required to be applied in all Member States of the OTIF. The Republic of Serbia is a full member of this organisation. In fact, membership in the SRJ's OTIF was legally inherited by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and then only the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the country of SFRY was the founder and member of the OTIF until 1992, when the Decision of the Management Board suspended its membership, in accordance with UN Resolution. SRJ has become a full member of this organisation since 1 August 2001. I note that the COTIF Convention, in a narrow sense, foresees in certain cases the possibility of derogations and reserves, as well as the partial choice of rights, which the competent institutions in our country, primarily professional, the Railway Directorate, as well as the relevant ministries are closely and closely following and in accordance with the expert assessments of the interests of our country, consider the consequences of possible non-application, i.e. the possibility of a declaration of the reserve. In the case of amendments, there is no need for such a measure in the proposal for this law, so that the law on the validation of amendments and additions can be passed in the proposed way, i.e. to adopt the law in whole. The implementation of this law does not require any financial resources other than regular membership fee for the International Organisation for International Railway Traffic, which our country, as well as all other members, must pay independently of this law. I expect support from the Parliament's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12056	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12057	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Convention has an important impact on our accession to the European Community. You heard from the minister that the Middle East and Europe are directly connected. That link leads across our country. Serbia and Corridor 10, especially railway Corridor 10, connect Europe and the Middle East, and we know that railways are the cheapest and most profitable way to transport luggage, people and goods. This convention for our country has great importance because we have already entered this system and this system should be maintained at all costs, especially since we have in this variant the possibility of a reserve statement. This means that all those decisions made by the OTIF organization that legally monitors the COTIF Convention can always be positively affected by the fact that no decision is taken to harm our country. The competent departments and the Railway Directorate are obliged to monitor continuously and permanently all decisions taken by the OTIF, an organisation that monitors this Convention. Especially since this law has no financial difficulties. Otherwise, we pay for a regular annual quotation that affects positively the overall state of rail in our country. If we look at Serbia in the geographical position of the East and the West, we are talking about the Middle East because almost all the members of the OTIF would be harmful for this country to drop because of the situation in the railways, especially in Corridor 10, and this means that we are now preparing to define from this loan prepared by the Russian Federation. We from the United Pensioners of Serbia's Parliamentary Club that the focus on this corridor should be expressed that we do not allow constant slowdown of speed on our tracks while Europe and the rest of the world are speeding up and creating fast tracks, to allow this country and our advantage now in this geographical position to be visited. In addition to Corridor 10, we believe that the focus should primarily be given on the Belgrade-Bar railway line to the border with Montenegro, while putting new railways into construction. We believe that the revitalisation and attempt to stop and slow down our railways in relation to the rails of all Europe, including the world, must do everything we can to stop the lag behind and then go to the construction of new railways. The new stripes are only in the other plan. For all the above, the PUPS will support this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12058	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12059	The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs today can be said to be virtually nonexistent for the Serbian railways. International rail transport has completely frozen and it is difficult to perform and talk about transporting goods through Serbia to the countries of the environment, let alone the wider international community. For the economy of a country, it's very important to build a modern rail system. If one day you could make it from Belgrade to Saturday in 45 minutes it would be a complete awareness of people where they will live and work and what entrepreneurial ideas they will realize. In many countries, railways have become a development generator because it has made it possible to interact between cities and regions, faster development of less developed areas, and thus reduce unemployment. The average track speed in Serbia is 42km per hour. Speeds to 64% of the track are a third less than projected and only 3% of the track is more than 100 kilometers per hour. Serbia's railway carried 10 million tonnes of goods last year, which is 25% less than in 2011. As I come from Vojvodina, I can freely say that the railway transport is completely devastated, but I can stress a much better time when, during the existence of ZTO Novi Sad, from 1977 to 1989, more than 527 kilometers of track was remounted in Vojvodina. They're all electrified. More than 10 electric locomotives and various electric trains were purchased. The zeroth phase of the information system was also introduced. Train tracking was high-level. It's a steamed tow. More than a hundred freight wagons, 20 modern passenger cars, and many diesel locomotives, etc. were purchased. The New Now harvested 15,000 workers at the time. The last few years before the takeover, she was shoulder-to-shoulder with Ljubljana. At that time, there were at least a mile [km] of railway workers. They had the smallest administration but also the biggest achievement of trackwork and minimum credit responsibility. In just a hundred years, the railways in Vojvodina have come from the most developed in Europe, and probably in the world, to the worst. In a hundred years, we have become one of the worst railway regions in Europe, as a result of the absence of a systematic railway thought and of a non-domestic relationship. The fast train on the Sudotica-Belgrade route traveled in 1926 in three hours and 15 minutes, then in 1989 about two hours and in 2007 it crossed three hours and eight minutes. So, in 82 years, we haven't made a move. The average speed of trains in Serbia today is 45km per hour and on the track between Mercury and Manchester in England, a steam locomotive took an average speed of 56km per hour in 1829. In order for railways in Vojvodina to be brought into a decent state and for all shares to be able to cruise new furniture about 900km of local and regional railways, it is likely that between 400m and 700m euros are needed. The job would be completed in less than two years and everyone would profit from citizens, from municipalities of cities and provinces. It would also be the Republic of Serbia. Investors would come, traffic accessibility would show its advantages, raise citizens' standards, and that would be good for everyone. That is why it is a priority for the Ministry of Infrastructure to pay attention and that the funds are as much as possible from the loan and budget for the revitalisation of the railway road network in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12060	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12061	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the Directorate, today we are discussing a law that discusses amendments and additions to the Convention on International Railway Transport. This is certainly a technical document and an act concerning those people who do the work of international rail traffic on a daily basis, and I am sure they closely monitor all changes to these documents. On the other hand, we can observe this convention from another aspect. From the aspect of our country's ability to meet this convention of obligations under this Convention, to remove any discrepancies we have with the EU and thus to understand where the Serbian railway is today and what is all that awaits us in some future period. I would like to remind you that the International Railway Transport Organisation, as the minister said, was founded in Bern in 1980 as a form of institutional co-operation between countries in international rail transport, with the desire to agree and harmonise this international rail law, first in the area of passenger transport, goods transport, baggage transport. It is the most important international organisation that deals with transport, railways. We have heard that 47 countries, mostly European, but also some countries in Asia and Africa. It is very important in the whole process of international rail traffic. Perhaps it is interesting that the first international railway agreement on this subject was signed back in 1890 in Bern, where the headquarters of the OTIF is today. Following serious political and economic changes in the OTIFA Member States, in 1990 there were significant changes in Willjnus, both in the functioning and organisation of OTIFA itself, but in a significant part, as regards the procedure. It should also be pointed out that EU directives have had a significant impact on these changes, first in the part where the EU started in 1991, affecting its members to separate infrastructure from transport, from transport of goods and passengers. We can say that since 1999, changes in OTIFA can be classified into two categories. These were first formal changes and concerned the very organisations and the increased competences of the OTIFA itself, for the reason that so far a large number of other international organisations have dealt with various issues and with various responsibilities in the field of international rail traffic, but also in the part of obtaining significant responsibilities, as the Minister himself said, where the responsibilities concerning the transport of dangerous things are included, of course, passenger transport contracts, goods, vehicle contracts, contracts for the use of railway infrastructure... (President: Just a moment, Mr. Mitrovica. I ask the MPs only to enable the speaker to speak, and to me, that I may hear him who exposes. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... Elimination of barriers at the borders, then, technical standards and standardisation of vehicles, infrastructure. It is already seen from these competences that the OTIF is certainly the most significant organisation in international passenger transport. As far as this material part of the 1999 change of OTIFA was concerned, it was mainly about amendments to the I.D. and the I.D. procedures, as well as the responsibility-related work. As for the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments, it was largely a matter of loading sheets and similar documents, and certainly, as in any other convention, part of responsibility is a significant part of these amendments. After the change on Willjnus, the Convention consists of the main part of the provision itself and of seven additions. The reason why we are discussing the amendments today is the amendments to the 'E' annexes, which relate to the infrastructure use contracts in international rail transport, and in order to address the non-compliance of the provisions of this annex with EU law, then the amendments and additions to the 'F' Appendix, which relate to the uniform rules on the evaluation of technical standards and the adoption of uniform regulations, such as amendments and additions to the 'G' supplement, which contains uniform rules on technical approval for the acceptance of rail means intended for this type of traffic. Also in 2011 in Bernos, the contributions of the add-on "F" were renamed unique technical regulations. Once again I say it's clear, when I talk about this convention, that this is strictly professional, someone might say a dry text and something about the part of the people who deal with this matter every day. But at the very beginning, I said that we can also view this Convention as the ability of our country to monitor everything that is going on in the member states of this organisation, first in the EU countries, with which we most generalise on rail traffic, and show a significant desire to join this large organisation. With nearly 500 million EU citizens and 31% of their participation in the world's nominal GDP, the EU has a significant interest in taking care of the development of transport in its area. EU transport policy is based on several conclusions. Any kind of transport should be optimised. Any kind of transport must be safe, efficient. Every type of transport must be combined, that it has the ability to combine with other types of traffic and must show a high degree of friendship, as they say, with nature. So, there must be significant attention to nature conservation. Despite the fact that in the EU today, rail traffic has been represented in the transport of passengers from about 8.4% to 8.6% of total transport and 17% of goods transport, the EU has been paying significant attention in recent years to the development of rail traffic, precisely because of all the comparative advantages rail traffic has. So, first of all, considering that rail traffic is safe, despite a significant increase in speed in recent years, that it is efficient, that it has a high degree of protection of living environments and that it has a great possibility of combining with other types of traffic. A significant figure is that the EU rail industry is making transport of 73 billion euros annually and that around 800,000 people are employed in the industry. It is also known that as early as 2007, the European Parliament and the Council adopted rules on rules and obligations in rail transport, in order to ensure greater safety for railway operators. I'm saying this one more time, because it's interesting for us as a country, because we're making every effort to join this great family. But the question arises – is at this point the Serbian railway capable of not being a brake and a problem tomorrow in this global European transport system, but being part of the development of transport? Certainly, the Serbian railway is in significant trouble today, and certainly this is the consequence of the economic downturn, because everything that was happening in the railway is directly related to the problems of the economy – the decreases in production, and thus the transport has significantly reduced. The current situation is also due to insufficient basic investment, but also the result of a poor organisation, due to poor social and human resources policy. I will now provide some information that will indicate the state of the Serbian railways today. Of 3,809km of railway network, 1768km are highway tracks, and of which 1247 or about 32.7% are electrified. Only 7% of the railroad, 276 kilometers has two tracks. Only about 45% of the tracks have a 22.5-tonne axle load allowed, while at 30% of the tracks this load is below 16 tonnes. The allowed speed goes 100 kilometers per hour, to only 3.2% of the track, and most of the track, about 50% of the network, allows maximum speed of up to 60 kilometers per hour. With the exception of individual sections of the railway – Belgrade-Shid and Greater Plana-Nish, which are two-wheel electrified and on some sections allow for higher speeds, all other railways have outdated technical and technological parameters. Even in some sections of these tracks there are shares in very poor condition, so the speed is often temporarily limited to 20 kilometers per hour, even slower. Serbia's public railway company has 480 locomotives, eight and a half thousand freight cars and 550 passenger cars and tow and towed vehicles are relatively old and unreliable, which often results in defects during driving. The average age of vehicles exceeds 30 years and the availability rate, depending on the type, varies between 26% and 61%, which clearly indicates that these 480 locomotives are not available every day, and of course these cars are also available. In the last year, 320 seats have been introduced on Serbia's railways, a total of 535km, representing 16% of all railroads involved in exploitation. About 350m euros should be allocated for the resolution of weak spots. In the modernisation of railway infrastructure, modest 168m euros have been invested in the last decade and around 136km of railways have been remounted. All this loathsome data, of course, I did not say that I would remind myself of the harsh reality, but that together we in this Parliament and the government would finally make some more important decisions, so that all these problems would be ignored and that at least to some extent we would welcome the moment when Serbia would become part of this great European family and that we would not be the brakes of this transport system, but part of the development and, of course, to see what steps would lead us to a certain shift. Of course investment in rail infrastructure is something that is necessary at this point. Corridor 10 is the breadth of Serbia's railway system. Some experts even say that the more important railway Corridor 10 is from the road Corridor 10, 770km from the Croatian border, across Belgrade, to the Macedonian border, taking the east towards Dimitrovgrad and north towards Subotica, are certainly our chance. What we need to do at this point is train that rail for speeds of at least 160 kilometers per hour, complete electricalization of the railroad, make it a two-wheel rail and train it to transport both freight and passenger traffic. All of this takes about 4.6 billion euros, and if I remember correctly, we made a promise from the EU that we would finish the job by 2020. At this point, more than half of this corridor doesn't meet the conditions I was talking about, or the problems of electrification, the two-wheelness, the inability to transport freight wagons. What is coming is certainly one serious investment. It looks forward to the fact that in the next period, according to the information we receive from the government, from the resolution ministry, it will be significantly done on Corridor 10, both from the Russian loan and from the funds from the Spanish, German government and other sources. The minister knows better than I do. Once again, I say, it looks forward to the fact that a serious traffic station will finally be built, from which we can have one big financial benefit first. Trainers say it best, from that transit traffic, it's the sweetest money. That's what the railroad people know. When this reconstruction is completed, travel through Serbia will be reduced by three hours. Also, I would like to welcome the efforts of moving rail traffic from the centre of Nis. And there the EU joined and made it clear that it is going to meet the moment Serbia will join the EU and that it does not want the Serbian railway to be a black spot on the European rail map. The European Union has given a million and a half euros to produce documentation, but has warned us on the other hand that we do not have time to wait and hesitate. So what we MPs and citizens are expecting, and we also see the EU, is to call finally that tender from the spring and start moving rail traffic from the centre of Nis. What will be found before lawmakers in the coming period is a guarantee, a guarantee request for a 25m-euro loan from the Kuwaitian Fund for Arab Economic Development, negotiated by Mr Dinkic, the finance minister. It is clearly a very favourable 25m-euro loan with a grace period of four years to complete the implementation of the first phase of Prokop, which is part of Belgrade's railway node. It is clear that Belgrade's railway node is one of the key places on Corridor 10, a railway that connects Paris and Istanbul, connecting Budapest and Athens, Bucharest and Bar. It is clear that the 25m euros from the Kuwaiti Fund for Arab Economic Development are a good investment. The announcement of purchase of a certain number of vehicles, 12 diesel electric locomotives, 25 electric trains, as well as 15 multi-system locomotives will in some way improve the rolling stock of railways, certainly not enough. What I want to say in the end, and what I want to say about investment in infrastructure, not diminishing in any way the significance of Corridor 10, is certainly the railway of Belgrade – Bar. I have a slight feeling that she's been kind of neglected at this point. I'd like to be informed, and I'd like to hear some new information from the minister. A track that was once the pride of Tito Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro's largest infrastructure project, has been waiting for a serious reconstruction for 35 years. It is estimated that this serious reconstruction would require about 340m euros in total length from Belgrade to Bar, about 200m euros in Serbian part and what would happen afterwards, and the assessment of the professional people, is that the number of passengers would quadruple and the transport of goods would double. I should not even remind myself that after the opening of the bar track in 1976 and years later, the bar track was a significant part of the transportation of all major business entities southwest of Belgrade. The railways were also driven by coal producers and copper and aluminium producers. Today they're not on the railroad anymore. So, I expect to invest significantly in the reconstruction of Belgrade – Bar. It is interesting that only in four months last year our export card "Fiat" from Kragujevac was transported by the railway via Kragujevac, Požega and Užica to Bar, and what is expected in this year is at least 110 to 180 thousand, so these are clear reasons why it should be invested in the Belgrade-Bar railway. Finally, what I want to say is that a reform of the Serbian Railway System is necessary, in that organisational sense. We know that in July of last year, the Assembly of the Action Society decided to create four dependent companies for infrastructure, transport of goods, transport of passengers and management of property and this is only the beginning of an organisational reform of railways, which would make one new organisational structure and Serbia's Railways would function as a group, as a controlled society that would provide corporate and other joint services to other dependent societies. It's just the beginning, but I have a feeling there's a lot of trace, too, that we're still not sure where we're going. (President: Time. ) And in this part, we must take account and look at the experiences of EU countries. Just a few more sentences. In 1991, after the first railway package in 2001, the European Union made it clear to everyone, first of all, that it is necessary to increase competition in railways, in order to make the railway more attractive precisely because of all the comparative advantages.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12062	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12063	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SPO and the DHSS had one positive dilemma about what to do with this bill, since for all the above all, we are always in favour of meeting our rules with EU rules, with unique technical standards, as regards this topic of the agenda. Mr. Mitrovica said a lot of arguments I wanted to make about the situation on our railway. We cannot just vote to confirm this Convention, not to give our assessment of what we will expect in the future from the concrete application of this Convention and not to look back on the situation in our railways and not to point out in a political sense who is responsible for this situation. Namely, when the second half of the 19th century began to build railways in Serbia, of course, then the National Assembly was led in some way and a humorous debate on the subject among those who opposed the progress. There were MPs who felt that walking at a speed of five kilometers per hour, that a speed of 35 kilometers per hour was not good for the health of the population. There were those who believed that the railways would burn down the fields and forests to which they passed, etc. It's appropriate that time. However, we have a similar situation in our railways for 130 years after that and the average speeds on our tracks are about 35 to 40 kilometers per hour, and in the world they are largely in use in the transport of passengers trains that go from 200 to 300 kilometers per hour. We've got magnetic stripes. The world has gone far in that part. Comfort in the transport of passengers is similar comfort in the transport of aircraft and regardless of the campaign against the principality and the Kingdom of Serbia, in the sense that everything done in those countries was bad, I will remind you of an example that was neither for nor for improvisation, which showed the country's attitude towards rail transport. A famous family of Czechs dealing with horticulture, whose successor is now Mr. Paris Sierrak, came after the invitation of King Milan to Serbia with the task of regulating the Horticulture of railway stations in the Kingdom of Serbia. The railway stations were passenger accommodation buildings, painted, painted, decorated. It was an example of the beauty of rail traffic and of a completely different state relationship to the railways compared to everything we've had in recent years. The relationship to the railways dates back to Tito's Yugoslavia, as if no rail traffic had been carried out in the Kingdom of Serbia, a notorious fact that it was different. After 130 years in this very important traffic, in which nearly 10% of passengers and 17% of goods are transported in EU countries, as transport is cheapest and safe, we have made no progress. If we vote for this convention, to say that we have nothing against the convention, there are technical standards above all, somehow later we will take responsibility for this situation and people will ask us – you voted for these technical standards, and we in the field have what we have. Secondly, we voted for some laws regarding the railways. This phase improvement of rail traffic is foreseen. For economic reasons, however, we see that this is going much slower than we expected. What is also important is that the 1990s announced those Serbia's high-speed railways. However, the policy of the state summit at the time was that we must first of all address national issues, that all other issues of secondary character, including the question of railways, the question of standards, the question of investment in infrastructure. We have been through these national issues badly, and therefore we have been through badly on all other issues. Since now the prime minister from your party, in 2008, when the government of Mirko Cvetkovic was formed, Mr Dacic, and now often points out, has said countless times that he could form a government with the SRS, which means that in a political sense, whether you will be on a European or anti-European course. The only thing that mattered to you was that you could enter the government, which I don't think is good. What is now being done with regard to the policy you are implementing is largely acceptable, but the issue of responsibility is also being raised for both you and your political parties, but for the general state of the country and for the state of rail traffic. Perhaps in a political sense there was some balance and justice that you yourself personally for this situation for which you are responsible in rail traffic, that this hot potato to advance this situation was left to you and that in some way you regret the sins you committed during the period when we were excluded from international rail traffic, which was a period of nine years. I think it's illusory to talk about economic and other damages. What is a feature besides this slow rail traffic, along with outdated locomotives, wagons, is that the unsecured are still largely circular crossings, that further accidents are happening, that a bad organisation of the whole system, that the subsidies of the state are large. They're all over the world about rail traffic, but you can see the results. What my previous colleagues told me from the beginning, not to you, but to all the ministers who deal with this problem. It is high time to join the essential reforms and within the organisation of the public undertaking "Serb Railways" and within the organisation of the technical and personnel entire system because we can accept conventions like this, and the situation on the ground is what it is for us, and for a year again talk about the same problems, re-accept some conventions, and life will pass on to us. What is for SPO and DHSS in a political sense full of satisfaction is that you, too, Mr Minister, have not thought anything bad, for the past five years have accepted our political views that you have understood the importance of our country's integration into the EU and as far as rail traffic is concerned, that international standards are being accepted, that it is going through an integrated path. We have nothing against this convention. After this item of the agenda, there will be some two similar conventions that we will vote on, but for this we will not vote for the simple reason why we have the full right to speak like this today, because for 23 years we have been talking like this, and because for 23 years we have not moved from the dead spot and that there is not enough assurance on our part, since we are following the state of the public undertaking "The Railways of Serbia", there is at all a serious intention to go into serious reforms that we are all aware that are beyond necessary and that it is high time. When you come to the National Assembly with such suggestions, when we see on the ground that there really are changes in "Serb Railways", then count on our support. As we adopt acts and laws, and the situation on the ground is what it is now with the best intentions we cannot support such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12064	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12065	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the word "rail" is mentioned, even in the context of one convention, you have two negative associations. One refers to the state of the railway in Serbia, and the other refers to debts that are constantly incurred over the years and years, although in 2011, I think we all know that, written off debts by "the railways" that were made 20 years earlier. The railroad came to some green branches. However, debt continued enormously. Again, we have to ask the question – why is it that when it comes to "the railway Serbia" it has to be about the loans, the guarantees given by this state, we have huge loans that are given to the railways, why does it have to be about some subsidies that are not being spent, why does it have to be so that it implies that the "railway" reorganisation is not working, it is not done or worked, even though in 2008, the World Bank created a project to reorganise "the railway Serbia"? Since 2008, it has not been appropriate to do something about the issue -- how do "Serb Railways" function not to make debts, not to be in charge of this country, not to overturn the incapacitated work of the manager at the head of "Serb Railway" on the citizens of this Serbia, because everything that is bad done in "Serb Railways" is ultimately paid by Serbian citizens. Speaking of railways, it is clear that the railways in Serbia simply represent the 19th century railway, perhaps the 18th century. In the 21st century, Serbia travels when you want to travel by rail, like you're out there in the 19th century. Is that allowed? So much ambition in the story of what's going to be done about "The Railway of Serbia", what's going on, and not from anywhere. So we need to ask ourselves why that is, are we ever going to define the main problems of the railways? In all countries of Europe, it is normal to subsidise railways. It's just one need. What is going on in Serbia that railways are only subsidized and only financed enormously without us benefiting from it? Only the number of employees is growing, only debt increases, and we do not see an end to the agony the "Serb Railways" are exposed to. Therefore, it would be good to think about when new directors are installed, when a new railway manager's summit is being built to take care of the expertise of the staff, about the professionality of the director who will decide on hundreds of millions of euros of the public enterprise, because this is a public enterprise, however they call it. How is it possible that we simply don't have official, clear, transparent criteria? Now I speak in the first face of the plural, although we are in the LDP in opposition, but I think we are part of this country and we also have an interest in changing this situation which is now dominant in the Railways. So how do you think about putting some people in the director's position and how do you expect some results from them, if you didn't have a clear idea of whether they were capable of being in charge of such a large system, are they able to lead it, manage it successfully, and to tackle all the negativity inherited from the past? Therefore, "Serbian Railways" are only one bottomless barrel alongside many barrels, such as Serbia's Clinical Centre, such as Serbia's Roads, such as Galenika and many of these public enterprises that we are funding today. It would be good to sit down once, think about it. If you are unable to create your own reorganisation, consider that the reorganisation proposed by the World Bank is a little bit analyzed and you try to apply it. The last major negativity, which has simply gone unnoticed in public, is the fact that those 800 million loans we have agreed with the Russian government, we simply do not know in what way to spend, and it is already said that it would be good to redeploy the use of these loans provided for by the Railway. What kind of seriousness is that? What is this political responsibility and ministry, which is responsible for the Railways, both the Government and the management staff themselves, which is at the head of the railway? Is there even a thought to be taken seriously by a problem called "Serbian Railway"?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12066	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12067	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must begin with one of my impressions a few minutes ago. By listening to my colleagues, who used to speak, I've found a lot of those arguments that I've found myself, preparing this bill, These are all the abilities, i.e. incompetence of the railway system, railway infrastructure and funds to apply this convention, and yet they will vote in favour of this convention, and I cannot vote for the same reasons. It seems inconclusive to me that when we know what the system is in, then when we see these technical standards that are very high, which are related to safety and railway infrastructure, we bring the state into a position to talk about this convention, and we know that we can't apply it at the same time. I'll start with a few things that are very important. I must tell the promoter, please, gentlemen, that when you write an explanation why we should accept these bill proposals that you are offering us, write down what the citizens of Serbia get from what you want us to vote on, what Serbia gets from it, what businesses in Serbia get. Don't write us what the EU gets out of it. It is unserious to tell me that everyone has accepted, the EU, standards. We're interested in what the citizens of Serbia get. It is the citizens of Serbia who drive "The Railway of Serbia" and know in what state it is better than the ones we are talking about today. That's what I'm saying from the position of the people of Valjevo who travels to Belgrade, 100km, to "Serb Railways" in three hours. Believe it or not, in three hours he travels with stops, with easy driving and with everything else. What the promoter has said is what the aim of this convention is. The first objective is to improve, facilitate and improve international rail transport in every respect. It is completely, from the position of Serbian citizens, acceptable. We want to drive better, safer, quality trains on better tracks. The second gain is what the promoter says, that we will establish a single legal system in this area and that this is very important for the state of Serbia. I agree that this is important for the state of Serbia, because Serbian citizens cannot feel well and secure when one regulation is applied in its country, and when it comes to the border, in another country, that some other regulations will apply. It's okay to have a single legal system. It is said in an explanation of the proposal that no financial obligations arise for the state of Serbia, perhaps if we speak directly there will be no financial commitments. Of course, there will be financial obligations. How will you, the system we talked about, all the speakers tell us about the state of the railway system in Serbia, to bring it to this high technical level without investing anything? He can't. There must be financial obligations. You say -- to make changes and supplement this Convention, it will also not be necessary to provide funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In Serbia's budget, unfortunately, funds must always be found for losers. The "Serbian Railways" are not sure how many times Serbia's budget has been given in various ways of subsidies. In various ways, this congregation was the one guaranteeing that the railways were taking loans, which they did not eventually take advantage of. Let's believe that what you wrote in this explanation, that we're not going to spend any money, that's how it is. We'll see about that very soon, after last time in October or November, we'll see about that. We'll soon see that budget where there won't be any of those items. I'll be careful, so I'll follow those items. I will list several members of this convention who, as far as the DSS is concerned, are very important and we want to open up later on to controversy. They're not particularly important to us, I mean, they're important, because general definitions are very important for this convention, but they're not what I want to talk about later. These first members don't matter, so all the way to Article 3, I wouldn't comment. Article 3 refers to the recognition of technical standards for railways and the adoption of uniform technical regulations, which apply to railways and which aim to facilitate the free traffic of vehicles and the free use of other railways in public transport, then, the contribution to security, efficiency and availability in international traffic, and I would very much like that to be related to that traffic in the country and what we rarely have to hear when it comes to this, which is also very important. Article 4 is important to us, and concerns common technical standards for railways and standardisation of industrial products and procedures at national and international level. It's just as good for Serbian citizens. Article 6 says a request for the adoption of these technical standards can be submitted by any Contracting State, a regional organisation defined in Article 2 and any representative international association related to this area. I will complete my comment with Article 9 which is very important, which refers to these statements and gives the possibility to the state, which I think is our case, that when it cannot apply the entire convention, it has the right to apply certain parts of that convention, which is good, which is good, which somewhere we can find, what is important and what at some point we can use, and at some point that it is a step of development, that we strive to do so, in case only the Secretary General is informed and that the time needed to respond is respected. There's a place where our troubles can find prey. I want to stop here by commenting on the members, because in light of what I said earlier, I would like to look at what our children look like, what our conditions look like, what the "Serbs of Serbia" look like, the majority of the loser we're talking about today. The director of Railways says that, according to a first estimate, they would function normally, at this point the Railways is missing 13 billion a year. These are huge funds, especially when compared to the fact he also states -- that only this year will have more than two billion dinars for investment and maintenance. What about the others? So investment and maintenance, that's the development threshold we need to track. Now, what's interesting is what several of our colleagues mentioned, and we should talk about it because we as a Assembly guarantee that "Serb Railways" on several occasions took loans, that this assembly was guaranteed by these loans, or guaranteed on behalf of the Republic of Serbia that "Serb Railways" would return those loans, that they had only been in charge of the "European Bank for Reconstruction and Development" in two waves per 100m euros, which is not a small amount. The sum was provided for rail infrastructure, for improvement and for the railway, for buying better trains, for more quality locomotives, for multi-system locomotives, and was for safety, because we gentlemen have a problem with our tracks and we have a big problem that rail Corridor 10, which is so important for our internal traffic, but also for God and for foreign traffic, is being brought into a situation that we may be left without international transport, because European railways and European companies want to travel quickly and safely, want to change the route through Romania. To get back to these loans. So, in May, the Railways signed a 100m-euro loan agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the funds became available in March 2010. Here, three years after that, the funds were not used because "Serbian Railways" were unable to implement the tender procedure and that the funds available to them for the benefit of Serbian citizens who had already been reconciled that these loans had been taken. But since the funds aren't taken away, then the pens are paid. These foams are large, amounting to 2m euros, but are still being paid because clearly the Railways don't know how to implement the procedure and they don't know how to take the money. That further work on the railroad and everything else stays in the fog. The second loan was taken a little later. The loan agreement was taken on 15 September 2010. The loan is intended for the modernisation of the track on Corridor 10. So nothing was done. The funds became operational in July 2011. Again, the "Serbian Railways" failed to realise this loan either. Not to mention the 800 million we have received, which the Russian Federation has been offering us for several years and which are referred to as certain means and that "Serb Railways" are reopening the story of whether they can rename funds. They're not finished projects, we don't have projects, it's very unserious, because every time you take a loan, and you don't realize it, you pay for a penalty. Not to mention the damage caused by the fact that no new locomotives have been purchased, which is not a remounted track, and that all comes down to another lower threshold, which leads to us losing that little international reputation that we have in this section of the Railways. Because of all this, the poor condition of the railroad in Serbia, 12 new railway furniture can't drive more than 30 to 40 kilometers an hour, so comparisons with the 19th century, which has so far been used by some of my colleagues, are completely normal. Let's just mention the Indians we see on the side of the road, and then they're in that state of "Serbian Railways". It is said that the average speed of trains on Serbian railways is 42km per hour. Look out, gentlemen, it's the 21st century, and we're driving 42 kilometers an hour. In the last year, 320 shares have been adopted, allowing so-called Easy ride. What's a light ride for "Serbian Railways"? It's a 10-mile-an-hour drive for you. When you drive 10 kilometers an hour, it's easy for you to drive. Maybe when you're riding a bike, gentlemen, but when you're driving a train, that sounds a little funny. That 320 shares is a total length of 535 kilometers. That's 16% of our network. Excuse me, is it possible for you to drive 10 kilometers an hour to 16% of our network? What are we talking about? What standardisation are we talking about today? What international, high-tech standards are we talking about when it comes to our railway infrastructure? I really don't see if we're serious when we're talking about it today. I really can't see. We've been driving 16% of our rails for 10 kilometers an hour, hours, days traveling in terribly bad and cold trains, and we're talking about international high-tech standards. Great. There's less than 60 kilometers to 34% of the track. At only 3% of the track in Serbia, you can drive up to 100km per hour. That's what I'm talking about when I'm talking about whether we're serious or whether we can accept that the state is being introduced into signing amendments and supplementing some convention, which is great, because in fact, I have nothing to object to, but I have a grudge against that we're not able to see the relationship between what we are and what we're talking about and what we want. It was nice to see the results of a meeting that was a panel discussion, which actually had the title: "How to get to modern Serbian railways? "It was a very interesting gathering and it would be a real pleasure if I could talk about this meeting today, but I don't have that much time to talk. He was very inspiring to all those who could see there what a cross-section of our railways, our trains and everything else, as well as our skills for something and what we seek. The average age of the railway in Serbia is 42 years. Most of the facilities are between 30 and 40 years old, and the average age of the fleet is 30 years. In order to increase train speeds, to make the railway, 350m euros must be invested. According to these huge loans we already took, there 200 million from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 800 million from the Russian Federation, these are funds that can be used to benefit both the benefits and the conditions of the Railways, but also the Gods and passengers, or the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, no one is guaranteed that the 350 million can really be used that way because it turns out that we're taking the loan, so we don't know what to do with it. At the same time, it has to be taken care of, in addition to the 350 million that are provided, to work at the same time on the track, and to do something in the next five years with that intensity. So five years should be done on Serbian railways, on railways, in order to see some first effects and then we can talk – you know, here, the convention is ahead of us, it improves the system. We want to accept both technical standards and safety standards and that's perfectly fine, environmental standards I always welcome. But I don't see how we're gonna do it with this relationship that I'm talking about. When we talk about the terms of this convention regarding improving international traffic, let's just take one example. Serbia recently gave up, i.e. Serbia's railways recently gave up international traffic towards Croatia because we have economic default on one side and we have a large figure of 700,000 euros, as much as Croatia is asking for their infrastructure to be used annually by one train to use the service of the Croatian railway infrastructure. That's why we're taking off our international lines and currently we're on 36 international lines. I think that when we look at the number we need for these types of services, what we have to pay for using other people's infrastructure, it's pretty improbable because it's between 800,000 and a million euros. Is Serbia ready to subsidise Serbia's railways, and should subsidise, in order to respect it? That's what the question is now for you, Mr. Minister. That's what the conventions are asking us to do. I have to say that it is increasingly a practice to change this relationship in the world right now and that this principle of reciprocity, or that we are using the railway infrastructure of another country, and to offer our infrastructure in return, is no longer in the world. Mostly railways and foreign countries are asking for this use of infrastructure to be paid. For Serbia, it is quite complicated, especially when we ask a question – excuse me, and who will pay and how much will pay for the use of our railway infrastructure, where will the trains travel and the railway carry the load 10 km per hour by driving on our tracks? It's really being asked as an open question. It is a very important strategic issue for this country because, excuse me, if we can't materialize the Corridor 10, and it is designed to materialize something and to get some funds into Serbia, precisely because the burden is being transferred from one part of Europe to another part of Europe, then something is wrong and then we can't say that we want to be some international factor and some country that takes account and adopts the international conventions that allow it. I said that certain countries subsidize rail traffic, to be clear, and Serbia does. Some countries subsidise international traffic, some and within the country, international traffic. So different concepts are, but mostly the largest number of countries subsidise their railways, and Serbia needs to find a modus compared to its economic strength. What does she want, at what rate she wants to do, at what rate she wants to work, is there any people who are willing to borrow that we've already raised, we're in charge, and everything else, capitalizes and lead to some state of our railroad and our railroad? I'd like to talk a little bit more about the concept of security, maybe I'll talk about it later. It's a very important concept. Excuse me, we have a problem with train stones, we have a problem with stealing metal parts that contribute to the fact that driving trains isn't safe. I think we should also take care of that when we adopt a convention like this. As far as the DSS is concerned, our convention is not controversial, our country's questionable ability is whether we can reform our rail transport system, so we can apply at least part of that convention. We are interested in the well-being of Serbia, Serbian citizens, and we are particularly interested in what someone else thinks about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12068	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12069	This unit doesn't work for me, so I need to borrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12070	It works, Mr. Angelkovic, but you're in order now. So there's a order in the Rules of Procedure, and now it's you. I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12071	You didn't hear me well. I wanted to announce first that my unit's not working, so I have to borrow someone else's. That's what I said. There's no technique here. I thought it was my card, but I tried, it's not my card, so it's a notice. Allow me to welcome you, as chairman, and minister. I'm going to ask a few questions about the convention and these questions that are mentioned here today. First, you know, when it comes to the convention, I have to remind you that AD Railway Serbia, as terms are mixed here, is not a public enterprise and I'll talk about it later. The AD Railways of Serbia are members of all international and European organisations, respectively, international railway organisations and the CER, and this brings together in fact everything that is important how it can work and how not only the railway of Serbia works, but also the railways of Europe. There's no other way you can do it, so you can organize international traffic if you're not in the context of the convention. This convention has been a good part so far, there have been some changes that will cost some railroad, but in the extreme case, in that it is necessary to provide an additional certified workshop, certified every car, and so far a car that has not had a certificate could not go out of the country. Therefore, we absolutely support this convention. It allows for effective standards to be harmonised at European rail administration level, regardless of whether they are European railway undertakings in the EU or outside the EU. It is not only about relations with the EU, it is about Europe. When it comes to reforms, let me immediately say that Serbia's railways, in line with EU recommendations and government recommendations, have finished their work. It may seem a little weird, but part of the job is done. In June 2011, we had a change of status on the railways, meaning, from a public company to a stock company. Immediately beyond that are all decisions, when it comes to the reorganisation of the railway, that it is divided into four dependent companies with holding, which means that the infrastructure, in accordance with this proposal of the railway law, which has not passed here, for these or those reasons, is not finished, that the infrastructure is separated as a special enterprise, passenger and freight transport as a special, and property as a particular one, which would function in a single continent. I must remind you that for this concept of a single system, and with dependent companies, there have been different ideas in European rail administrations and German Deutsche Ban, the German and Italian railways have led the dispute against the European Commission, where the European Commission has requested that full infrastructure be separated, that it cannot be within the rail system. The Deutsche Ban and the Italian railways believed that it could be within the holding system and that the process was practically completed before the European Court, where it is allowed by 2016 to remain rail administrations not as unique, but as part of a system that can also be infrastructure, but separate businesses. It's basically consistent with what we've made in agreement with the Department of Traffic. That part of the job is done. I hope that, when it comes to the government, because it is now in the government, bearing in mind the new Law on the way of rail management, the election instead of the Supervisory Boards' Assembly, that in the first quarter, based on what the government has adopted as a plan, a dynamic plan of progress towards the EU, if I am not mistaken, in my decisions on 6 December, that this part of the job will be completed in the first quarter. Therefore, when it comes to reforms, railways are not a helmet, but I have to be honest. You know what it's like? This implies the next stage and competitiveness. This will lead to passenger and freight traffic, and, above all, rail freight traffic, into a completely different position in which the state, if it wants to have it, has to deal with it in another way. Why did I say this at first about reform? I have to be honest, there are a lot of misunderstandings about the functioning of the Railways, not the Railways of Serbia, like now because of the public enterprise or the a.d., etc., but in the way that the Railway of Serbia works. I've heard the state give a lot of money here today, and I'm telling you it gives little. Now I'm going to make a comparison. That's very small. You know, when the railway is being watched, it's being viewed as some transport company of these truckers together, "Lasta" and "Serb Roads". Now the railways need to make roads, buy trains, fix roads, when I say roads, I mean railroads, fix the holes on the roads, on the tracks, buy cargo trucks, that is. Cars, to buy passenger trains and be successful with $100 million, that's not possible. For this year, 120 million for thanking parliament to adopt something like that, because it meets the pay. Let me make a comparison that's not possible. So, imagine "Lasta" making his own highway? Because she's got more buses than she's got train cars. Imagine, she makes a highway for herself and that another state gives her 100m euros and says it's a failure. That "Lasta" couldn't work. "Nish Express" is not negative for "Last," it's just not possible for it to work. And this railroad with that money needs to build a railroad and build a railroad and maintain a railroad and organize passenger and freight traffic. It's just not possible. If that's not possible, I'll tell you what the reform is. The reform brings different funding to the Railways. The reform does not mean that there will be no funding from the railway budget, except that it will not be in the budget as a grant, but will be required public transport, on the one hand, maintenance of the railway, i.e. the infrastructure on the other and third sides of the construction of new railways. More specifically, the "Serb Railway" infrastructure will deal with the business of Corridor 10 and the "Serbian Roads", and passenger traffic will buy trains and drive there and pay for transport infrastructure. Passenger traffic will drive as much as the state provides public transport obligations. That "the railroad" can do that under those conditions, I'll give you an example. But before I say how many in 2010 in Austria, which is 5,5,000 kilometers, not much more, Serbia has four - 3,96, means four thousand kilometers. Austria in 2010 on this basis, more specifically, had four billion revenues from the budget, not just by donation, which means a billion and 60 million for compulsory public transport, 400 million, I was joking at the time, so I said, from the former Ljajic Ministry, for social categories, pensioners, students, students, etc., that's a billion and four hundred for mandatory public transport in passenger traffic, 600 million for railway maintenance and two billion for the construction of new railways, that's four billion. Four billion in a country that has a similar population has about 35-40% more kilometers of railroad. So the railroad is everywhere in the world together, it's just a question of what the state wants. Is he gonna have new stripes or not? That railroad can't make, it's not just possible. That the Railway can carry out its obligations if there is revenue under mandatory public transport, I am talking about passenger traffic now, this is project "BG train". I knew, I listened, I read these stories about how the city organized it. How does the city organize it? There's no town of engineers, it's not a city train. The city is named after its name, but it's a train called "The Railways of Serbia". The "Serbian Railways" under contract with the City, and the City has given funds for us to repair trains, and we pay for it by transport, per mile. We have one train, to say the exact number, when the train leaves from Batajnica to the Pančeva Bridge, the railways have 13.5,000 revenue, no more. Those who ride that train and statistics say that, and so does the City, so 105 departures a day, in six months, no more delays than one minute. So that means we can drive, no more than a minute late. Last year they transported 9.5 million passengers out of 12.5, which means that with a good Bus Plus if we were in good control, because we don't have the right to charge tickets, we could transport 15 million passengers in Belgrade. I think more personally, but with one 20 to 30 new trains, there are Rakovica-Batajnica and Rakovica-Panchevo, not only Batajnica-Pančeva Bridge. The state of Serbia and these railwaymen and this people here can do it, it's all it costs. It's a passenger traffic situation and there's no dilemma. A total of 480 locomotives, you count on both those and Prince Alexander's locomotive. What 480 locomotives? That's because no one can sell it into old iron so it won't be if he's been stealing something and they're standing there. There's no more than 72 to 92 locomotives in use, and that's the condition, I'm not talking about a passenger, I'm talking about a freighter. It's the state of the "Serb Railways". There's a 480 on the list, but they're not even up for repairs, it's for old iron, it just takes someone to have the courage to sell it, so how to sell it, whether it's a tender or otherwise, and then everybody runs away from it. When it comes to whether we have or do not have international traffic, the total revenue the Railway has as its own income is from 78% to 80% of international traffic. We have, we don't have, so that's our main income. Corridor 10 and international traffic is the main income, and this is the very corridor 10. The minister was the initiator to create the Corridor 10 company when it comes to this, which would say A direction towards Zagreb and Ljubljana. We did so, so they first had an objection from the EU that it was an attempt to make a concentration and ban, etc., while this was explained. But to try to get part of the goods going from Vienna to Budapest for Turkey's Corridor four, which means Hungary-Romania back to Corridor 10. There's no way we're going back to 89, but at least some of it's going back this way. For freight traffic is an important speed, but it is not important, the most important thing is that what is promised, at what time that train will pass through Serbia, it will pass. So on that side, I think the Railway is going to be like that, I'm telling you the truth, what the state's strength is and how strong the state is to support the railroad, that's how the railroad is going to be. The engineers will drive as he writes in his book based on slow rides. I was driving to the engineer once to Prepolje, and then I realized that the train delays, so we changed on the board of directors, that there was actually no train delays. Now that looks a little funny, because the engineer drives the way he got from professional service, how many miles does he have the right to drive at a certain distance? Therefore, he is not late on his book, but based on the projected speed, and the projected speed, and here everyone said – we cannot achieve it because in order to achieve projected speed it is necessary to invest annually on 200 kilometers of track repair, meaning complete reconstruction, at four thousand kilometers of 20 years and after 20 years each km of rail must be restored and that is 200 kilometers. Let me tell you how much we rebuild this year. Average, from 2000 to today until 31 December 2012 17.4 kilometers. So, every year we're late to rebuild about 182 kilometers, so let's make it 180 kilometers to be that I've gone too far. I don't think it was much better from 1990 to 2000, but unfortunately, at that time, we averaged 43 kilometers, and now 17.4 kilometers. I heard the story here that we have to fix it first, we have to do both parallels. The railways for bringing the railway to projected speed on existing railways need 374m euros, to return all railways to projected speed, and in parallel with what the ministry supported the government and what the minister spoke of several times, parallel to the loans provided, thanks to the support of this Assembly and government, to work on these new projects. It's not important, and don't worry about whether this railroad is going to work or whether it's going to work, it's going to be the railroad that we first do the project, because both of us need it. That's what Minister Valjevo-Loznica said several times, Pazova-Novi Sad. Personally, I might like to do Paz-Novi Sad, but for Paz-Novi Now, if we start doing a general project now, we have ideas, it takes a year and a half, while Valjevo-Passion could start tomorrow. That's the difference. It's no difference what we need before, and we both need each other. And I would like us to have one of the Belgrade-Novi Sad railways, where the train can go 35 minutes, let it go 45, and I'm sure these 150 buses on the Novi Sad-Belgrade would be halved. And if that were to happen, the fact that they're breaking our relationship at all times is that we've taken away some of the passengers. 'Cause of course, if a man goes faster than Chakado Požega, cheaper, nicer to these new trains than to take a bus. There are many private carriers, and children as children, of course, so the stone arrives. You already know about this 800 million, and most importantly, in March of the month, the project of reconstruction is launched. Construction of the second track, and reconstruction of the existing track track of Belgrade-Pancevo, which means also on the Pančeva Bridge the second track. This would mean that this BG train, if of course has good relations and co-operation, would not only be the Pančeva Bridge, but also as we have Pančeva Bridge – Batajnica 105 departures, that we have 105 departures of Pančevo – Batajnica. I'm absolutely sure this doubles the number of passengers on an existing BG train. There are also six shares on Belgrade – Nis, for reconstruction, but also for the realisation of the European Bank's loan to build a new bridge and a piece of the track from Ćupre, a two-wheel track. Of course, there's this problem, I know about the big criticism, unfortunately, for the railways, when the funds are provided for the construction of the project, then there's a problem in the realisation, the dronery on the railways, that doesn't turn out to be gone, there is, but there's also a problem with the resources needed for a project that the railways in this financial state don't have. On the one hand, you can't take the funds unless you've made a project, and on the other hand, you don't have the money or the money in the plan for the project. Thanks to the ministry's engagement, when it comes to Russian-rail credit, we've made sure that in some way the total mass goes into the project and that's why we've completed these projects much earlier, because we have designers who can finish it, but someone has to pay for it. Therefore, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will absolutely support this Convention, because I think it is useful for the railways, it allows the railways, i.e. the AD Railways of Serbia, to say very precisely that they remain part of the European transport system, which they are so far, believe me and we have no problem when it comes to relations between the railway administrations. Why don't we have trains for Saturday, why do they like there, like JAT used to be, so we give JAT, and they give us, but it's not the point, it's the European market open. When you become a member of the EU, everyone has a right, gets a route and drives, and then the one from Vienna will, as it does now, work to get to Budapest on his train, maybe Belgrade, but that means that this train can use a quality track to go to Belgrade, but unfortunately from Saturday to Novi Sad, it's not much better than Novi Sad and here, but from Saturday to Novi Sad is bad track quality. Finally, I want to say that I support this Convention and that it only helps Serbia's railways to remain in the framework of European railways administrations as unique, and I hope that this year we will end the reform, but that this does not mean that there will be less funds and debates in this Parliament about the need for railways, only in another way, and that these projects will allow for the next few years, that the Serbian railways will be, not only in an ecological sense, but in an organisational sense, much more necessary for the country of Serbia. So 350 trains should pass at the Belgrade-Nish route, to pass one truck and it is the same ecological damage. So if we want to talk about ecology, we're not talking abstractly about planting three trees, because we can plant 300 acres, and I'm a young man who planted and participated in 170 thousand hectares on the Cave, but it doesn't help if we don't take care of the current ecologicality and there's a railroad back in advantage. I thank you, and I want this Convention to support the further development of Serbia's railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12072	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) In this case, we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12073	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, is ahead of us with a bill on confirming amendments and supplementing the Convention on International Railways. This Convention is very detailed and accurately regulates all segments of international traffic. As an engineer, I paid particular attention to technical conditions, e.g. to unique technical regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, this Convention is a science fiction for our railroad. Why? The average track speed in Serbia is 42km per hour. Speed to 64% of track by a third less than projected, and at only 3% of the track is 100 kilometers per hour. In the last year, a slow ride, or journey of up to 10 kilometers an hour, has been introduced to 400 kilometers of track. Serbia has a network of about 3,800km of railways, of which 3160km are used. So, 640 kilometers of track, it's not even used. It's 7.5% per cent of the network, so 283 kilometers, and only one third of the track is electrified. The situation, if this one can get any worse, that's it. in Vojvodina. In the last 100 years, from the most developed railway region in the world, we have become the most underdeveloped and failed railway region in the world. Just 20 years ago, the Duke cruised about 70 diesel motor furniture, in a people known as the Shinobuses. Twenty thousand people were transported daily with them. Today, the number is reduced to only five, with a maximum of 400 dukes a day. The speed at which these Shinobuses move is only 20 to 30 kilometers an hour, primarily because of the poor characteristics of the railroad. I would only give an example, but there are many such examples, the line Subotica – Sainta – Kikinda. That railroad is in worse shape than 100 years ago during Austro-Hungarian. 100 years ago, traffic took place, driving order was respected, trains moved faster and more precisely than today. It's also happening today that during a week, between Saturday and Sainta, there's not a single Shinobus going through, because it's malfunctioning. The situation is even worse, if he sits on the train, and he goes on the road, and then the train breaks down and repairs himself, and the passengers get along as they know it. Since the beginning of 1977, by the end of 1989, more than 527km of rails have been remounted in Vojvodina, more than 10 electric locomotives, 10 electric trains and other equipment have been purchased. This introduced a zero phase of the train tracking information system, a steam drive was abolished, more than 100 freight wagons were purchased, 20 modern passenger cars for a speed of 200 km per hour. Vojvodina then had 44 electric locomotives, 10 electric trains, 94 diesel locomotives, 13 steam locomotives, 67 shinobuses, 161 passenger cars with 17,000 seats and 600 beds and over 6,000 freight wagons. In the early 1990s, there were cases that the property of the province's railway was physically taken to Serbia, such as when the railway electrical equipment was taken from Saturday to Cačak and Požeg. About 100km of high voltage power grid was taken, which was prepared for electrification of the direction of Subotica-Sombor-Godojevo. We do not know where the new tracks were taken 30 kilometers away, which were only temporarily laid for construction of the direction Banatsko Mileševo-Novi Becej. The dark has eaten the computer system from Subotica and Novi Sad. It was decided without any record or opportunity to return to hundreds of locomotive cars, anything that was new and valid. Serbia's AV railways are a mess. Most of all, it looks like a black hole that swallows hundreds of millions of euros a year without some positive results. We as a constructive opposition, so as not to be just criticizing, we always have suggestions. My proposal is to establish the old system of the Duke's railroad, since we have more personnel, we have railways, we have experts who know their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12074	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12075	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Convention on International Railway Transport, or the short-term COTIF, was drawn up in Bern in 1980. It is the highlight of work on international nunification of rail transport. These changes and additions have been made since 1990, and it is not disputed that we adopt these changes and additions. Normally, it is our desire to join the EU, and I think that we have once drawn that line and that means some of the obligations that we are doing so. The debate on Serbia's railways can certainly be very fun, and if all the problems and the way it works in life were brought to light, a new movie, "Who's singing there," could be made only now with some new version of rail traffic. However, things must be far more serious. We're going to start with something that's really not controversial when we pass and we're going to pass this law. We will bring many more laws and directives that the EU requires of us. They will bring this Assembly and guarantees to the railways. It will bring the Assembly and the budget in which, before we bring it, it will turn into a wall of salaries of public enterprises and companies to cover the losses and to separate the higher money from the budget. All of this will be brought by this Assembly, but what would be decent and what might be the order, which is that, in addition to these requirements for guarantees and assistance, reports and strategies, plans, implementation of reforms, problems, and all that follows the functioning of such a significant action society or almost public enterprise. I think these MPs who do everything and accept all the laws and opportunities with the government would deserve it together to help function the company. We haven't had that kind of practice so far. I think it's about time that things turn a little bit around for the public and for the citizens who listen and see, what does a stock company want, what does some other public enterprises want, as long as that money is set aside and what's the benefit that citizens are going to benefit from funding and giving up their money from the functioning of this public enterprise tomorrow? The current way of operating Serbia's railways is largely expensive, outdated and based on a monopoly. It's clear to everyone. We have aspirations to join the EU and therefore we need to move to the necessary reforms in the railway sector on the one hand, to meet these requirements if we want to, and on the other hand to get cheaper, safer and faster rail transport. In recent years, there have been attempts at reform. It was invested in infrastructure, I'll count some of it. I remember a few years ago it was invested in the adaptation of the recovery, the painting of the railway stations. Many railway stations where no more trains are passing at all, where there are no passengers or trains, have been given millions of resources to take care of some basements that have not entered for years, to inhale heating and marble in these basements, and thus show that something capital and large is working for the railway. On the other hand, it was bought that pampered trains that looked more like circus than serious railways. I'm just going to define three objectives of reform, which I think we should put and inform this Assembly and the public. First, to meet these EU conditions, if we are able to do so at all. We take these obligations, we promise to do it, but I'm not sure if we keep doing it like this, we can do it. Through these directives contained in this famous EU Aquis. If we meet that, then we can expect some benefits and support in further reforms from the EU itself. What is the third goal of the reform is that competitiveness. If we don't strengthen it, when it comes to the game, I'm afraid we don't have a chance to win. If we do not implement these reforms and come to the opening of the market, our participation in all this will be negligible and this will further worsen the financial situation of the shareholder society. Business philosophy must also be changed. What we have today is not business-oriented philosophy. That's what it's all about - radio, radio, radio, radio. The passengers will ride in these compartments as they ride. Someone's going to fall off a kidney on the way or not, but the fact is that even in those conditions, if we come to market with such a monopoly, we have nothing to look for in that competition. What are these problems that we're committed to for citizens to get out of here? They repeat some who were presented on the rail discussion panel. And I'll say it myself, but it's really as interesting as the data. It's not too bad to hear a few more times that our average speeds are 42 kilometers per hour, and that's only on some parts. About 300 promenades have been introduced with a light ride, more than 40km. It's probably for safety, because the fact is that such speeds represent very serious safety for our passengers. What are the solutions, if we're already speaking this kind of critically, what do we have to do, and that's our moral obligation? It is not disputed that we will support this, but we want to force all the factors in this society to fulfil their obligation to the EU, so that there is no interference with others to get there if we ever get there. The solution is to rationalize the infrastructure and adapt that infrastructure to the present and future volume of content, to fit into the environment, to see what in the future will be our main orientation, which will be the main Jedi for this international traffic, where can we show financial benefits or benefits, and where will it be exclusively something called - the social category, if we have to do so already? We need to cut costs, separate secondary actions and what is the most terrible, which is – what about the number of employees who are too many? How does that field work, where did it come from, we had to get information here? I have something, which is that in five years, the number of employees has dropped from about 20,000 to 18,000 in some natural outflow. We can keep it because of these social pressures for a while, but at the moment when the pressures from Europe are like this, and out of our budget, we're going to get into the only situation that we're going to have to do a quick downturn, and by then we're going to do a lot of damage, because we're going to be late in reform and we're going to be late to invest the infrastructure, so we can adjust it to the conditions that we can track the competition when the door opens tomorrow and when other operators eventually come into position, or the privates come into a position to compete with who gets the job. So, of course there are resistances. Every monopolies is fighting reform, they don't want to, because they have to compete, they have to succeed. I expect that this strong pressure from the EU and sometimes bringing subsidies and aid to a reasonable level, cause literally, force and management, to adapt rapidly to new requirements, and hopefully someday we will be in this family of European railways. I don't think we're gonna get there so we can deal with them all the way, but at least be what's called a basic human culture in the transport of our citizens and goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12076	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12077	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, members of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposed law on the validation of amendments and additions to the Convention on International Railway Transport in the version under the Protocol on Changes of June 1999 and September 2011 and by the Revised Commission of June 2009, in Bern, is part of the commitments that our country has made and accepted in the context of international co-operation on the harmonisation of transport standards, in this case of rail transport. These amendments and additions have been waiting several years to be confirmed by our Parliament, although they do not constitute any burden in terms of making amendments or adopting a different proposal, since they are usually adopted as a whole, as already agreed text, but our top legislators in the previous period were not on the list of priorities, so they were waiting for some years to pass until these amendments and amendments to the Convention entered into the assembly procedure. As we know, and we are witnessing that domestic passenger traffic throughout our country is going shyly, almost undetected, and whoever doesn't believe it should try to buy a train ticket to Thessaloniki or Athens. Of course, they won't get it, because it doesn't traffic a passenger train on this international line. It is a sad thing, because Serbia has a long tradition of rail traffic. It's one of the first countries in the world to set up rail traffic. The famous Orient Express traffic across Serbia's territory, and in this respect Serbia was an advanced state, and then there were some new times in which rail traffic was falling ever more and more. About the limitations of our railways should not waste words, but everyone knows it, but the country's competent should know that rail road traffic in Serbia, especially in southern Serbia, where I come from, dies under strong pressure from the lobby of bus carriers, and the poor south needs economic and comfortable transport, which can be provided by railways. If we know that the traffic spine of every land country, like Serbia, is this particular railway network, then we can only wonder that the average speed of trains in Serbia is about 30km and we wonder why that is so, while in developed, i.e. organized states are being chased by modern trains by the so-called With high-speed stripes, and they rise. It's the progress of technology, the results of their minds and the abilities of their engineers, builders and indicators of the prosperity of the state. However, we too have an indicator of society prosperity, and as we discuss this item of the agenda, we should look out the window and see what might be done about the unhappiness situation that I described earlier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12078	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer signed up for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does Minister Mrkonjic want the word? Yeah. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12079	As always when I come to the Assembly, it's already become a practice, so some think it's a phrase, I say I'm surprised, because I'm always learning something new here, although I've been doing this job for 40 years and I'm responsible for most of the criticism you're giving here today, "The Railways of Serbia," because I've spent more than two-thirds of my working century on the railway. I thank all the MPs who spoke great and those who criticized. Now I'm going to respect people, try to answer just a few questions. So, COTIF is not controversial, that we understand each other immediately. We're already working on it, and we should be working on it. I didn't realize any of the MPs were against it. They may not vote for these or those reasons, but we are still working on these principles today. Our tow and driving means, that's where Mr. Mitrovica best spoke, as an expert man, as a man who has long worked on the railway, we vehicles going outside must be codified by that. COTIF does not talk about technical elements and the construction of new railways. I will answer only some questions regarding the general state of the railway, by taking this as an introduction to the discussion of the Law on Railways, which was not adopted in the past term of the government, but will be on the agenda in 15-20 days, and then Mr Blazic will do all that he has now said to get. So don't realize that I want to make a difference with you. Mr. Jeremic is not here and I won't comment. He gave support and the man knows the railroad well. Mrs. Jelena isn't here either, but I would tie her up to Mr. Carol, and I agree as a man who's been working for a long time and the railroad I know, at the time you're talking about, yes, the railroad was a role model in every way. I remember the white gloves of train messengers and the disciplines that were on our tracks, but, as one of the oldest among you here, since I can see that there are no friends of mine from the PUPS, I have to say that the railroad has invested all these qualities, first of all, right behind World War II in modernization of the country as a whole, so it's damaged, no matter what Comrade Tito had more understanding and then slowly goes rails. Since my friend Bucky Angelkovic, the chairman of the board of directors, explained it nicely, it's easier for me to talk less about it. That's right, I agree. Getting back to the old man won't take us anywhere. So, rail reform, to answer the question now to Mr. Karola, the rail reform that is now going on is required by the railways and we will, together with the law, finish it, hopefully, within the next two months. It is, what most MPs say here, separating passengers from freight traffic, creating conditions for removing rail monopolies, including new operators, etc. As for Mr. Mitrovica, I have nothing to add. A man can be a minister today, no matter which party he belongs to. He knows that well. Everything he said, he's absolutely right, and about the data related to the state of the railway and today's state of rail. But I'm going to answer to him now, and in that, I'm responding in a package of what the railroad in Serbia is today. The railway has two lives – liquid, that's all you've said about rail and developmental negativity. In that part, I must underline, the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous term, where I was a minister, and today absolutely gives the railways full support. Of course, we're moving in some way from zero. It doesn't matter what happened before, I don't want to go any further into it. First we adopt that master plan, define what the railroad should do. Through reforms we try to put life on its feet, and then through development, that's what I always like to talk about, only development employs new young people, development and development. The current life retains existing capacities, therefore, no layoffs. I'm a man who doesn't accept firing. To answer the question of the MP, Blazic thinks he spoke about it, or Mrs Vojic Markovic spoke about it. From 2000 to 2003 to today, railways have reduced the number of people from 30,000 to 18,000. You said in the last five years. So it's not like people would be extra now, but what's also important, we have to keep one continuity, and the former government just didn't get into the railroad so fast, because we didn't have the necessary preparation, documentation, etc. Today, the largest number of banks, these two European and one world bank, are just ready to enter the figure spoken of by Mr Mitrovic, 4.5 billion for the modernisation of Corridor 10. Today, of course, if the state isn't over-indebted, or if that problem isn't standing before us. As for the loan, I think that's what Mirko Chikiriz was talking about, in part, you all talked about it a little bit, including Judith. Of course, in 2008, there were plenty of untapped loans both in road and rail infrastructure. We started all those loans on the road. In the train, unfortunately, these two loans are not, but we started them today. Both loans go. One was for vehicles and for tows. There was a dilemma on both the railways and among the experts, and I didn't have that dilemma, but, I'm sorry, the public firm is only responsible for the realisation of those loans. There was a dilemma that trains to take, and our track has a commercial speed of 40 kilometers per hour. We can't take vehicles that will go 200 per hour on a 40km track, etc. Those dilemmas are gone. Both loans are active today and both loans are on the move. All these banks are still ready to enter and invest in our railroad. Mrs. Markovic, I'm glad you analyzed all the members and set up a good analysis. I've answered you about the loan, but a lot of you have talked about the staff, I think, and Mrs. Markovic. I'm known as the man who put the expertise before Mladjan Dinkic in the first place. I don't even ask today who the party is when it joins the ministry. The party that's most powerful must take responsibility through personnel. The second question is how much responsibility we're going to ask the people who are doing it, but we have to go that way so that they take the greatest responsibility. In this part, I have not interfered with personnel at this time in this government, but I will force them to implement the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia concerning the railway and master plan and that by 2017 or 2020 we really need to complete the processes that we are talking about now. If I'm a minister, I'll drive it all the way out. Our goal is known, by 2017 we must have Corridor 10 finished for tracks of 160 kilometers per hour, electrified all rails and two-wheel lines for mixed traffic. It is dictated by the EU, and it was last signed by Mr Draskovic as foreign minister and all his honor. It's the law. Mrs. Vojić Markovic, I never spoke of Europe in terms of which most of us spoke. Never. I even threw out one of the Croats when they criticized me about Corridor 10. The state introduced Europe through Corridor 10, the end of that part of the highway to Europe. First of all, I always think about what the interests of Serbian citizens are. I represent thesis – in Serbia we create conditions such as in Europe. That's the goal of these governments, at least as far as I'm concerned, as well as any other future government. This is the essence and through the continuity of the business that we are talking about in these projects is difficult to invest money and go from mandate to mandate. It's a Serbian manner. We all think life begins with us, and that's a mistake. Life doesn't start with us and we have to figure it out, but we have to move on where someone stopped before us. I won't comment on another Bucky. He's the chairman of the board of directors. It's a lot easier for me when there's more people to answer for. He told it all himself. Mrs. Ljubica has defined the problem nicely, and I completely agree with that. I'm just not going to answer Mr. Chiquiris, and then we're going to have a little bit of politics. In the '90s, I was the bearer of a general programme for the development of Serbian railways and roads. That's what I've been involved in to this day. Unfortunately in various political times, not to mention the times and systems our country has been going through. And then the resistance was huge, Mrs. Vojic Markovic. It's the modernisation of the railroad. In the '90s, there was no understanding, but then we defined what Europe requires of us as traffic countries and what our paths are. Today I am proud and often criticized in the term of office of this government. It's like the traffic minister let some other people deal with roads. Well, why? There is a master plan and he defined everything the government of the Republic of Serbia is now doing. Why? Have every minister answer for his part of the job he's doing. My job is to follow it. The railroad thing is a little simpler. Corridor 10 — of course. The Russian loan – of course it will be realised. I guarantee it. Will this be what Mr. Angelkovic was saying, the railway Valjevo – Loznica, or Corridor 10? If the paperwork's ready, because we've had a lot of trouble with the Russian loan, I have to say, because we didn't have the paperwork ready. No projects. It's a preparation. I underline, preparation is just as important as the realisation of these projects themselves. The preparation carries as much time as the realization. If we plan to build a road for five years and prepare for five years. Unfortunately, I consciously entered with Corridor 10, the northern arm, without sufficient preparation, I didn't even know what was going on between 2000 and 2008. However, we finished that corridor with great effort, but we finished it. For this reason, I thank the MPs for having understanding, and I call on them to direct this discussion to this end now that it is a railway law. I hope to make a proposal as Minister of Traffic to see at what time what of these projects that can be done. Now we have at least an orientation on what we should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12080	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, I cannot give you the right to a replica in this part of the session, as this was just the final word of the minister. He looked back at your exposure. I'm really sorry. On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF). Since we have carried out a unique search, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure in the voting day to decide on the draft law in general. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of today's session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12081	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that in the context of a joint single search on the proposals for the laws of item 7 and 8 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, I called for the sittings to be attended by Zoran Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and Dragan Radovanovic, Head of the Department for International Co-operation, European Integration and Projects in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on the draft laws under points 7 and 8 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament's groups, which you have in favour of the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament, according to Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 181 on Private Employment Agencyes and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 150 on the Administration of Labour. Does the proposal representative Dr Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12082	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you in the shortest lines the draft laws on the validation of two conventions from the International Labour Organization system. The standards set out in the Conventions of International Labour Organisations are a good guideline to all countries in the domain of work, employment and social policy, as well as the IOR No. 181 Convention on Private Employment Agencyes and IOR No. 150 on Administration in the field of work. By confirming the above-mentioned conventions, the Republic of Serbia will meet its earlier international obligations. The 1997 IOR 181 convention on private employment agencies regulates the work of private employment agencies with regard to their obligations to persons intervening in employment and to persons referring to the work of another employer. This Convention has so far been ratified by 30 member states of the International Labour Organisation, of which 18 EU member states. In 1978, the IOR 150 Convention on Labour Administration provides a legal basis for all countries which ratify it to delegate or entrust certain tasks of the administration in NGOs, in particular employers' organisations and labour organisations, in accordance with domestic laws and practices. This Convention provides that workers' and employers' organisations participate in the preparation of national policies in the field of labour and employment, i.e. regional labour organisations and employers' involvement in the creation of regional labour and employment policies, as regulated by Article 6 of this Convention. Up until now, 72 MEPs have ratified this Convention, and its principles have been translated into EU legislation, which is of paramount importance to our country. Under the rules of the International Labour Organisation, the Republic of Serbia will be obliged to start implementing this Convention 12 months after the handover of ratification instruments to the competent services of the International Labour Organisation. After this brief information, Mr. President and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12083	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12084	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, before I begin to talk about two extremely important conventions of the International Labour Organisation, I must first of all express my satisfaction that the Minister of Labour is in the National Assembly today and that I hope to receive at least some answers to a number of questions that I have. So today we have two very important conventions of the International Labour Organisation. The first is 181 on private employment agencies. A very important convention, very important for all of us, because its adoption and ratification will bring order to the work of private employment agencies, but there will also be greater protection of employees in those agencies. Otherwise, private agencies have been with us since 2003. So far, there are 50 of them. In 2003. The employment law allowed private agencies to work. However, private agencies today were able to mediate in employment, but could not employ. I would like to remain on this, and I would like to refer one question to the Minister of Labour, which is to the Inspection of Labour. In fact, doing the job I've been doing, for more than two years, I've been facing a series of problems. Serbia is one country where new laws are being thrown out, bypassed, and this was also the case with the inability of these agencies to hire workers, or to rent them to other employers. I don't want to talk casually, I'm going to speak very specifically, and I'm going to tell you on the Morava in case. "We have to IN" is an agency that's been working for a few years. So it's nothing new now. She rented workers to the Belgrade water line. Belgrade's water line received a full amount on behalf of the salary fee. Normally, the employees of this Moravi in didn't get full compensation. They received 50% of the earnings of those workers working in Belgrade's water pipeline, while 50% of the compensation paid by the Belgrade water line was retained in Morava and, respectively, retained by the owner of the agency. We've been addressing labour inspections, urgating, because the position and status of workers in these agencies is absolutely unsatisfactory, exposed to constant mobbing, without any rights, uninterrupted threats to cancellations. Enough to say that in Moravia in, after who knows how much peripetia, we managed to form a union and then when we raised some questions, that is, when the union president started asking questions, when he animated the public, he was fired. I'm using the Minister of Labour's presence to simply appeal to him, to request a greater involvement in the labour inspection, so that cases like this and situations like this will no longer occur. This isn't the only case. It also happens in the Parking Service and in a number of other companies. So I really appeal to all MPs, and I urge the National Assembly to support this convention, to give it absolute support, because I hope that by adopting and accepting this Convention, there will be order in the work of private agencies, but also much greater protection for those employed in these agencies that these agencies are renting. In this regard, I would point out the importance of Article 2 which provides that after consulting trade unions and employers' organisations, agencies may be prohibited from working for certain categories of workers or work in certain activities. Article 10 indicates that the competent state authority must examine complaints and abuses in the work of these agencies and include trade unions. Because of all of this, because of the possibility of greater protection of workers, and I don't think I should remind myself of what the rights of workers are today, how difficult the position of workers in Serbia is, I think we all absolutely need to support this Convention. What is not less significant and important, and what I least expect, is that, after the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, the Government must very quickly adopt accompanying regulations to ensure the implementation of this Convention. I would also refer to the 150 Convention of International Labour Organization, which refers to the work administration. Also, a very significant convention. Its aim is to establish an effective administration, i.e. giving the administration the opportunity to transfer part of its competence to other entities, primarily local self-government and trade unions. What I would like to maintain in some nature is to transfer jurisdiction precisely to the unions, because by following and being well aware of this matter, I already see ahead now, so in advance I would also like to point out and warn the Minister of Labour about all the problems that may arise, unless certain advances occur, before we transfer certain competences to the trade unions. Because of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia who are not in substance, I want to inform you that this means that the Ministry of Labour will transfer the union registration from the ministry's jurisdiction to the union's jurisdiction. It is extremely dangerous if we use this Convention to transfer the power of the state authorities to law enforcement of other organisations or institutions, so that they are also the social economic council or the organisation of workers and employers until we introduce order in this matter. First of all, I think of the problem that de facto is present in Serbia, which you are very familiar with, which is to determine the representativeness of the union, the work of the social economic council, i.e. participation in the social economic council, representative social partners. Let's look at today's social economic advice - so there's only a legitimate government in it. I'm not saying that all social partners are not representative. One of the unions certainly is, but the fact is that he proved his representativeness to the illegal authorities. On the other hand, we have the fact that one union, I'm going to speak plainly, UGS "Independence", does not want to prove representivity. It is something that in the state of Serbia, past the law and beyond the rules, can simply say – I will not prove representativeness. We have an employers' association that is so representative at the level of a school yard. When we talk about this, many may not understand why I speak this way, but simply, I ask you, Minister, I ask the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why is this question finally not resolved? Why is it that in one state where there are millions of unemployed, where the workplace is equal to winning the lottery? I can't understand that no one has any interest in taking this issue, getting one social dialogue, one form, one place where we're all going to solve the terrible problems of our workers together. Every time I talk about this, I like to say that these problems in recent Serbian history have never been greater. In that sense, I urge you not to approach this in this way, because you will execute the genocide of the union and you will lead to the revolt of all those others. So, the law, the respect of the law, the law equal to everything, the social dialogue, because we all want this Serbia to move forward, to negotiate and to have one shift. I remind you that there is no country in Europe or the world that has managed to make an economic shift, and that before that, social dialogue and the work of the Social Economic Council have not raised to a higher level. This isn't about individual unions, individual employers, this is about the need for this country to move forward, to negotiate, to have one place where government, unions, employers are systematically and agreedly solving these huge problems that we're in today. I hope this is going to be like this, that you'll have enough hearing, because we didn't have it from the previous minister, or from the last one, but I think it's really a minute to 12 to give this issue serious attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12085	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12086	Mr President, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the SPO-DHSS will vote in favour of the law confirming the Convention of the International Labour Organisation on Private Employment Agencyes and the Employment Administration. The arguments presented by the Vice-President of the Government and the arguments received in addition to this Convention are in support of everything we think will be fulfilled in the future by our country in terms of the employment strategy, in order to ensure greater importance to private employment agencies and on a system framework, in cooperation with the National Employment Service, in this sense that private employment agencies will work closely with them in the future, that they will be given reports, suggestions, proposals and that this will be a joint and united job, which has not been the case so far. It's a similar situation with the employment administration. As far as we can see, it hasn't been, let's just say, one administrative centre has not run a employment policy, it's often been a few ministries, but it's certain that we haven't had a full picture from one administration not only of unemployment and employment problems. I expect the administration to make some proposals to solve and how to improve the high unemployment rate in the region. If I'm not mistaken, only Macedonia has a slightly higher unemployment rate and it seems to me that BiH is also around. What are international standards in that direction is absolutely acceptable to the SP-DHSS. In this second part, I would try to give our view that from the point of view of our political parties we will try to overcome a huge rate of non-employment in the coming period. We're still, to a large extent, mentally in the one-party system. Without any hesitation, the environment, I am prepared to state the position of our political parties, with which I believe that most citizens and most of the MPs present will agree, that, unfortunately, we still have so-called party employment. In this one-party system, moral political resemblance was needed. I'm talking, of course, about hiring in public services, in state institutions. I'm not talking about hiring in private businesses, because in that part they did what I think the state should do, as far as public services and state and public enterprises are concerned, both at the republican and local level. We are witnessing something that is very good about the policy of hiring private enterprises. There are many employment agencies that literally test the willingness of future workers to perform certain tasks despite school preparation, to check practical knowledge, etc., psychological testing is often done. For example, with us seemingly benign jobs, but very responsible. For example, in people who will have the job of a truck driver, it is not an irresponsible job because trucks are often of high value, 200-300,000 euros, it is a high value of goods, and it is a great responsibility for the safety of not only goods and transport, but for the safety of the driver himself, but also for the safety and other participants in traffic. It's one newspaper that we haven't had before in our practice, and we all know, let's just say, driver's licenses have often been given to persons who haven't met the basic psychological predisposition and that often the consequences we've faced have been very difficult. That's what I was talking about when there was a road safety law in this high house. What we think is beyond the high unemployment rate is present, I think, Mr. Vice President, that this will be a joint task of the government. In us, on all these important topics, such as employment, you will always have a constructive and reliable partner, because we think this exceeds party interests. I also told the Minister of Education that the problem that everyone points to is dysfunctional education, lack of co-operation of high school institutions. If we talk about high school staff and businesses, high school institutions often make their own programs, receiving a number of students not taking care of the needs of the economy, and so we come up with some big imbalance. For example, out of the total number of unemployed persons, the most economists are. They are over five thousand, over three thousand unemployed lawyers, over two thousand unemployed managers, and on the other hand, most often highly educated, and especially those with a high-school job day are not at all able to do work for which they were educated, not because of their own incompetence, but because of the education system. In the world, it is perfectly normal for someone who studies to spend at least six months in a study, and this range ranges from six months to a year on practical work in a company. The moment the employer decides that someone who has graduated from work, he already has a fully-ready frame that can immediately be involved in the process of work. With us, the rights of trauma arise only after graduation due to long waiting for work, and employers, not knowing the functionality of our education system, often avoid seeing new workers, because they know that people who have finished colleges need to go through a long training process to benefit and profit from the company. Secondly, when we talk about non-compliance with the needs of the economy and the education system, in addition to teaching staff for which we have no need, let's say the Mining and Geology College has a constant lack of interested students, and that is precisely because there is this chair syndrome that is involved in our mental context because there are still interests that are prestigious and that are considered less prestigious, regardless of what the Mining Geological Faculty is and how prestigious and useful. To create new jobs, in addition to these issues that I have talked about and the good business environment and eases in setting up businesses, the procedures for paying taxis, the cost of issuing permits, etc., I think that the big problems we have been having in the period from 1990 to 2000 are when we lost a step with the technical and technological development of European countries, when we lost to a large extent the market and this recovery of our economy and our entire system will take a long time. As far as Serbia's unemployment rate is concerned, it is the most pronounced place where the largest population discharge is, and precisely the economic reasons for the immigration of the population. It is southern and eastern Serbia, central Serbia, and the lowest unemployment rate is in the Belgrade region and is around 23-24%. I believe the government will do what may not have been done by some previous governments, which is that our education system will adapt to the needs of the economy. I believe a good model will be found that at least in public services, at least in state institutions, those best students, who finish colleges with best grades, will have some kind of priority in employment. There was almost a text about a generation student at the Faculty of Chemistry, grade 10.00, a few years looking for a job. He can't find it either in the state service or in private companies. The most unpopular step – it decides to go abroad. In Tito's Yugoslavia, between 1960 and 1980, 23 thousand doctors left the country because of moral-political similarities and economic conditions, and we had a thousand unpleasant situations. I know of several engineers from the car shop, then called the Red Flag, who went to Germany in the '70s. They worked in German good automotive industries. Because of the political conditions at the time, which ruled, they had orders from the then public police services that when they saw friends from the flag they had to leave and say that the working conditions in our country were much better, that the West was exploited in the worst possible way, etc. It is a time behind us, but the fact itself is that to a large extent, the most basic condition for obtaining a job is a party book in state and public services, regardless of which political party it is. As long as we don't create this system in which an expert will deal only with his profession, where we'll give our best chance of proving themselves best, then the state will benefit the most from such a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12087	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12088	Dear Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, it is my great pleasure to have these two conventions of the International Labour Organisation in front of this Parliament. There's more to it than that. The first and main reason is that these conventions talk about social dialogue, they say that employers, trade unions and governments must participate in solving significant and major problems. I deliberately speak to employers, trade unions, and I put the government in third place, for the simple reason that the government has to create a framework for employers and trade unions to negotiate with each other. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that the SDPS will support both of these conventions, for the simple reason that they also mean the possibility of improving employment. Of course, the conventions will not improve employment, but they will create a framework to make it easier and faster to get to work. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, as a party seeking a socially responsible state, which is precisely the socially responsible state in these times of crisis, will support everything that will mean that a new job can be reached faster and easier. This means not only that we have clear jobs, but that the government, employers, and therefore socially responsible trade unions support the possibility of creating development and creating new jobs. That's why we didn't have dilemmas, and neither do we now as the Social Democratic Party to support the South Stream, for the simple reason that this will mean new jobs, a new possibility of employment. We will also support all those programmes, and even where the state provides significant means of stimulating employment, because this means new jobs. This Serbia, as it is in these times of crisis, needs new employment. You should hire young people, especially those we talked about here, which my colleague Chikiriz mentioned earlier, young people who leave college, who are willing to work, and there are no new jobs in this country. That's why we support these conventions and we stand behind them. These conventions also involve some other important issues. My colleague Savic talked about them. I can only say next. From the crisis in which Serbia is located, we will emerge if we develop a social economic dialogue. It means social dialogue, where equal employers, trade unions and states will be. Personally, I believe that the social dialogue in Serbia has not yet been developed to the extent that it is necessary and in which it would be necessary for these times of crisis. It is not just social dialogue to participate in the Social Economic Council, social dialogue is both a place and a social economic council where all partners assume their share of responsibility for the development of this country. So you can't rule out unions or employers because it's easy to attack, but let's be constructive and find the best solutions that will give us one step forward. One of these issues raised here about social dialogue is, and what does the representativeness of the Social Economic Council mean? This matter is being solved by another law, which is the Labour Act. We know that the Labour Act is being prepared, it's about a very important law that is a crucial law. Therefore, this law must be well prepared and all social partners must participate. I think that all the differences that exist, and even now there are differences, are both flexible employment and many other things, must be agreed on the Social Economic Council and only then come before the National Assembly. The Social Democratic Party will then be pleased to support these amendments and additions to the law, and I hope that those political parties they have in their prefix "social democratic" will agree and that we will show right here what it means to be social Democrats in reality, not just in words when it comes to the world of employees, when it comes to pensioners. We feel that it should be very specific and small shifts to move forward towards a better time, not to give big words, and in the end there will be nothing. It was stressed that there was a problem in the union's representativeness. Indeed, there are, but the question is, what does the union's representative mean? First, you need to define what it means to be a member of the union. We can't take some members who are formal, some who work on markets or are not employed, some farmers, and I don't know who to put that union members are and therefore come with a large number of supporters and say – here, we are now representative. I believe that representativeness and unions, which is a painful point, and also employers need to be clearly defined. We also need strong unions, united, and not separated, but also strong employers who will be joined, who know what they want, to sit responsibly and discuss it within the Social Economic Council. This is how we, on the union stage, have at times a disunity, different interests, and the different interests of the unions in many areas do not bring good, even on the contrary, significantly worsen the position of their members. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will advocate that this issue of representativeness and trade unions and employers will be resolved, but in accordance with the law, with legislation, with the conventions of the International Labour Organisation, which are clear and accurate, and that afterwards we have the Social Economic Council that can and should work at full capacity. I would very much like and wish that even in these conventions we have here as MPs of the position of the Social Economic Council, whether they agree, disagree, what they would change or what they would supplement. At that time in Parliament, we could be much easier and much simpler to raise our hands. But I fully believe that the way this has been resolved so far will be resolved, but I stress - often in Serbia, it is easier to attack than to build. It's easier to degrade than something new to bring, and especially so on the union scene. And I've been a union official for a long time, and now I'm tied to the union because I come from an independent union that is representative and where there's no dilemma. The independent union also assumes its share of responsibility for social events. He will be and remain constructive and that is what I want here in our Parliament to stress. By supporting these two conventions of the International Labour Organisation, I also expect from the Ministry of Labour and Resort Minister that these laws to be announced, the Law on strike that is already in line, is better to agree a lot and agree a lot, and only then come to this Parliament, I expect, at least as announced to me, by half this year, as well as that crucial law that I have highlighted, which is the Law on Work that we must agree on for a long time, and between the parties that have a social democratic orientation, we are already talking about it between ourselves. I think that in this domain, as MPs in the National Assembly, within the relevant committees, we will come up with those solutions that we may not all be satisfied with, but it will be a quality step forward. I also stress this because of another fact, because we often have a situation to criticise the laws we make. I'm starting to think it's hard to change everything quickly and easily. It is very difficult to accept the reform procedure immediately, but I am a supporter of attitude – one step at a time towards a better solution. I come from that, and I can say that on behalf of the ruling coalition, that the laws we've passed so far have been at least a step better than those before. I see here the role and task of our Parliament and the role and task of the Social Democratic Party Group itself. In the end, I will say that it is very good to understand that, as in politics, the number of votes is very important, it represents us in parliament, and so in proving representativeness, the number of members clearly specified in employers means their representativeness in unions. It's an alpha and an omega of everything we do. In the end, I will be very pleased to see such laws become as much as possible, in this way encouraging the Ministry of Labour to do as much work as possible. It is necessary because it is necessary in this country, in this country, to protect those who are employed, which will enable them to work and live from their work, I expect. So I encourage the Ministry of Labour, once again, to do better and better, and that the more of these laws of this kind are here in our debate because this will mean that this country is turning to the world of work, than it is living on, and that we leave these big political issues for later. We'll solve them, too, if we solve life, survival, and questions that can be done, earned and lived by our pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12089	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12090	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, today we have two conventions before us - International Labour Organisation Convention No. 150 in the Labour Administration and International Labour Organisation Convention No. 181 on private employment agencies. Finally, in this term of office, we have received two proposals that have connections to discuss them together, and that is the good news. The second thing, this is, as far as the DSS is concerned, very important two draft laws, these two conventions and the adoption of these two conventions, and I really feel a little uncomfortable when I see how many MPs are present today to talk about these laws. Of course, the field of work and employment are very serious topics. I think it's good to hear the representatives of all political groups because today in Serbia, where there are almost a million unemployed, that's what unofficial data says, over 755,000 is official data, it's really very important when things like this are found in parliament and when they're being discussed. What's in common with these conventions? First of all, it's common that they represent the field of work. Secondly, it is common that they have been established that we are still discussing them through the 2008 Dignified Work Programme, which was adopted by the previous government. For me, as an MP, it's really very strange that the previous government can talk about the dignity of work. The government that left 400,000 people out of work, whose mandate worked as workers as a slave owner, today we are returning to history, employers who did not know what the law would look like from today to tomorrow and what their company's future would look like from today to tomorrow, were also in a much better position, so that it would simply speak of labour dignity from 2008 to 2011 would be a paradox, as far as the DSS is concerned. The third thing that connects these two conventions, they were already in the process of the National Assembly, they were already in parliament, but because of the elections they were withdrawn then, so it turns out that when in Serbia elections, nothing is important enough to find on parliament's agenda. One thing I'd like to say first about International Labour Organization Convention No. 150 on Labour Administration. It's a pretty general-type convention. It allows the state to transfer certain jobs from the field of work to another form, meaning an NGO, some local self-government, although it is mostly a union issue here. Somehow, the unions recognized themselves in this, but the rest of us who read the convention recognized and read that it was actually about that. The previous speakers have really highlighted the possibility of all the problems that will arise when it comes to unions, because some of the previous things are not agreed. There are no standards. Here we heard, very carefully I listened to the previous speakers, two completely diametric attitudes about what a representative union is, which makes it representative. Are they more representative members if they are doctors of science than those who are employed at the market behind the counter? So these are all open questions that someone needs to answer. I'm glad Mr. Krkobic, who we don't normally see on the Committee, came here so we can get some concrete answers about that. It is very important when you divide and give authority to someone to speak and make decisions in creating a labour policy without having previously determined whether they are responsible, whether they are representative. I don't know any union in Serbia, which I'm an observer as a national MP, I'm not part of that union network, in any area that he said about himself -- I'm not representative. Don't, please, watch what the members of my union say. So, let's not make now by adopting these conventions in this way a gift-mar in the state, and I'm afraid that's exactly the way we're going to get into that circuit. That's the story of this first convention. Now I'm going to do a little more work on International Labour Organisation Convention number 181, on private employment agencies. I like to read the arguments that the promoter gives, that's what my colleagues saw in the first part of the session, because there are many things that are found out, but what is read and what, let's say, the promoter really thinks about what they propose to the MPs to adopt. He says that the aim of the adoption of this Convention is to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, although the promoter, to be fair, does not say that it agrees, but is harmonising. It also informs us that all EU member states have already ratified these conventions and that the basic legal principles of this document have already been translated into EU legal regulations. That's great, I just don't see what it has to do with Serbia. Serbia is not an EU member, and unless we respect that fantastic condition to hand over KIM on a plate, it will not be. It simply seems to me that this is an unserious argument, which is why Serbian MPs should discuss this. Then, the convention also discusses the organisation of private employment agencies. She says that these agencies are only actually intermediaries in employment and that people who want and seek jobs have no financial obligations in relation to these agencies, but that they are actually employers and agencies in this type of relationship, and that those who seek employment are relieved of those obligations. The reality in Serbia is a little different. A similar example that Mrs Savic cited, I can also point out because it is one of those agencies that in Serbia exists that has led people into a rather slave position because in some large period it makes them pay half their salaries to the agency that found them a job. Does Serbia have a legal basis for adopting such a convention? There is, indeed. And the Labour Act has recognized these elements since 2003. We also have the Employment Insurance Act, which also recognizes these elements. So we have legislation in that form. Does Serbia already have private employment agencies? There is. They've been there since 2003, 50 of them, and they work very differently. Some work fairly within what the law gives them, therefore, are intermediaries, while some use this rather vague legal status and do what I have already stated. It is good if such a convention is adopted, only that it will bring a rather order into the work of these agencies. Serbia has something else. Besides having these agencies, there's a huge service called the National Employment Service. The service has a directorate, two circuit services, 34 branches, 21 offices and more than 120 facilities in all areas in the Republic of Serbia. When you add it all up, it comes to you from about 178 different forms and different levels. So on this side we have this great big service organized, presented as the most modern, and on the other hand we have 755,442 citizens of Serbia who do not have a job. Something's inconsistencies, or it just seems to me. I say again, this is official data, it's off the record. Although Serbia is in a very invisible economic position, let me be gentle so as not to say that it is on its knees and that it is in front of debt slavery, this service has high costs and is suggesting that it has growing costs because I have looked at the costs in the previous three budgets, it presupposes that it has growing costs, and on the other hand it has negligiblely small effects. I looked at what a 2012 report looked like, where the National Employment Service spent 30 billion dinars, and I'm just going to look at the parts, only for public procurement, spent 981 million. What are public procurement? Support services for photocopiers, construction and maintenance of service facilities, current maintenance of buildings, purchase of motor vehicles, purchase of air conditioning, training for management skills for employees in the service, purchase of mobile phones. Now that she's got the motor vehicles now and the car wash, the floor coverings, the supply of wall pharmacies. In addition, a certain "The House of Foods of Lazarevic" appeared, which received 348 thousand dinars, where a number of negotiation processes were conducted without public call. The salaries of employees were spent two billion, 16 million for employees' rewards, 143 million for office materials and hygiene materials, for the cost of travelling employees 41 million. Now, according to the same data from the same service, they say that in 2011, with their assistance, employment was found by 50,000 people, and that in the past year, with their great assistance, 25,000 people were found. Don't be naive, I'm not accusing the state of affairs, because you can't find a job and really something very difficult to open up and create new jobs. But, I'm sorry, growing on the one hand so much service, it's really strange to grow, because you see what they have, and on the other hand, getting these effects is a little weird for a lot of richer countries. I have to say another fact that must indeed concern all MPs, especially the government, and this is one very devastating fact that in this army of 755,000 unemployed 200 thousand young people who are not employed until 29 years of age. It's really a very serious problem for a country that needs young people to prepare and guide it. But if they haven't been able to find a job by 29 years, and most of those people are high-school. The next big category, which presents a problem for the state in terms of not being able to secure a job, is persons with disabilities, but women between 45 and 55 who have lost their jobs due to transition do not go well. So for them, the working century is over, they can't find a job. It's official data, and estimates say these numbers are even more drastically different and larger. According to data, only BiH stands worse than us in the region when it comes to work and employment. What was this data for? Not to show that I'm reading, but to show how much the problem is, on the one hand, a huge army of unemployed. A state that doesn't know what's going to happen to its pension system that's going to fall because we have a problem with a small number of employees compared to unemployed and pensioners. There's still a lot of trouble opening up, and on the other hand, the service I say is doing its job, it's doing great. You see, there are 178 different exhibits to live on. Now I'm going back to the motionary's explanation. It says – the government's priority remains to achieve two goals. Economic development, I understand that, and the second is job creation. I don't know how you think you're creating them, but if I understand correctly, you think you're hiring people, so I'm asking you to write it down -- we want to hire people, we want to create new jobs. Creating jobs sounds kind of technocrat and it doesn't belong in laws. In order to achieve this, in order to really get the economic development and employment of people, it is necessary to reorganise the institutions responsible for work. That's quite clear. This includes regulation and the status of these private employment agencies, and I say again, their work is partly regulated by this Convention. You say in the next paragraph of reasoning – Serbia is obliged to adopt and ratify International Labour Organisations Convention No. 181 on private employment agencies as one on priority. It's one of the million things I've heard about my mandate, what all Serbia has to do and what its priorities are. I don't just know how these kinds of priorities are defined because I think Serbia's priority right now is to hire people, especially young people, and try to find for these two categories that I've listed, people with disabilities and women from 45 to 55 years of age, the possibility of somehow taking advantage of their work and creative energy, not to create jobs and it's a priority to accept this or that. I have many examples of organizations that have practically worked in various ways in the previous period since 2003 as mediators in the field of work. One of them, I don't want to advertise to anyone, but I like the example, and I think it should be pointed out is one association whose name I won't speak from the New Market. So, from the part of Serbia that really had a lot of problems both with employment and with investment and with poverty and with everything else. The organisation, for example, managed to implement professional and soundly paid practice of students from Raska, Germany last summer. At first, of course, since students are highly educated citizens, although so far they have worked on their employment, precisely by intermediating what the law has provided, not some other relations, such as the relations we talked about where it concluded with the employer, that the employees, the new employees, are paying in some 50 years 50% of their earnings. On purpose, I Caricate because these relationships never show how many years they'll pay off that kind of debt, pay off that kind of debt, but I'm talking about that's a problem that our inspections look pretty indifferently at and say they don't know what the status of these organizations is. These are some basic things I wanted to talk about. I'd say more, when it comes to such organizations, they're good examples, they're good models. We see how such an organisation can work on hiring people because the one I've been talking about now is the model that has hired thousands of people, I say, at this point only with high readiness, but they say another thousand next year will hire, of course in Germany and EU countries, in Serbia. I don't know what reason. They're the ones who are chefs, or they have some kind of medium machine profession or something. It may be a good example, but it's obvious that when you make such an example that there is also one that is not a good example, and that's the one that I'm talking about with so many words because I'm really experiencing, of course I'm not generalizing again. You also have at the National Employment Service people who do their job very well and quality and those who have no motive, are not interested in working in that service in the way that they really do. When you bring in the employment service not to hire people, then she can't be called a employment service. These are some of our basic remarks and I say again, as far as we're concerned, a very important area of work. Employment is very important, this should be discussed in parliament. Each of us from different political parties has a different opinion, let them agree, but I ask you to consider the role of organisations of private, official, public, state, whatever their work effects. The effect of the work is the only criterion on which an organisation should remain or not remain active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12091	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12092	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly that the adoption of these two conventions is a convenient opportunity to discuss both work and employment. First of all, I want to say a few words about employment, the role of private agencies, the role of the National Employment Service, the labour market and some key parameters concerning this issue. There is always a controversial number of unemployed people and there is always controversy over how many unemployed people are in Serbia. That number's moving about a million off the record and it's actually not. I even think it is much less important how many unemployed people are in Serbia and how many people actually work in Serbia. The official data of the National Employment Service registered by those applying to it says that at this point, 76,000 unemployed persons are on her record, all of whom are not looking for a job, but a large majority do. There are many who apply to exercise another right in the field of social protection or something that is conditioned by the status of an unemployed person without actually seeking it. The only real information about the number of unemployed is that so-called. A labour survey conducted by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and as a rule, this figure is far less than the number of unemployed registered by the National Service, and it moves somewhere between 550 and 600,000 people. Since I have already noted that it is far, in my opinion, more important who works in Serbia, it is always held somewhat aside and I will put a slightly larger accent on that and thus show what, among other things, is the additional problem of the labour market in Serbia. So at this point in Serbia is working somewhere, these are rough figures not accurate, about 2.3 million people, with about a million and 650 thousand people paying taxes and contributions, or accounting. So there is one difference that can be explained, of course, why it is, and when it enters into the structure of those who work in Serbia it will be seen that it is actually one of the key problems in our country. Who works in Serbia? For the salary of private employers doing everything around 850,000 people, and actually this is what's desirable on the labour market, this number should be as large as possible. Unfortunately, it is not envious, practically 850,000 people in some way sustain the entire population and everything we call state, social and all. About 600,000 people work in the public sector and the state administration, it's also a rough figure but it's very approximate. About half a million work directly or indirectly in agriculture or as homeowners or as assisting members and somewhere according to estimates between 300 and half million people work in the gray and black zone, some of them temporary jobs, some of them in continuity, and we have about 300,000 entrepreneurs somewhere. So what is the key problem of the labour market in Serbia is the structure of those who work. We have too many employees in the public sector and that is what burdens employers, the private sector is making serious problems in the labour market because if you have a situation that the public sector in the labour market is far more attractive, which is obviously, the mass of unemployed people are more anxious to work in the public sector than in private. Average earnings in the public sector are 20% higher than in the private sector. It all makes it difficult to change this unfavourable structure in which only about 850,000 people work for the salary of private employers. One question arises how do we increase the number of those who work in Serbia? There may be simple answers, but there are no simple solutions. It's the easiest thing to say, it's the political phrase, it's the job opening. There's a paradox and it's one of the problems, it sounds amazing, but it's true. If Serbia succeeds in opening half a million jobs tomorrow, only 150,000 people would be employed. If by some miracle half a million jobs were opened in Serbia, how many unemployed, little more than that, we would not have been able to fill those jobs, we would have filled up about 150,000 people and there is another serious problem of the labour market in Serbia, and that is, Mr Chikiriz was talking about, this discrepancies, the need for labour market and what our workforce, or unemployed persons, is. What does that really mean? It sounds amazing to you, we'd have to import 350,000 workers into such a hypothetical situation. It's not real and it's not going to happen, but it's an indication that we seriously need to go back and see what's going on with our education system, what kind of human beings are producing and how we can overcome this gap between the needs of the labour market and what we have as a result of education. We are all aware that we have serious problems and in funding education and that insufficient separation is below 1%, at least for higher education and that it is not easy to solve these problems at all. When we look at the structure of the unemployed, we have serious problems. Someone mentioned that 200,000 young people are on record, and that's true. The unemployment rate is twice as high as the rest of the population, more than 45% of young people are unemployed, but there's another data that supports what I've just said, more than 50,000 young people on the National Service's record is functionally illiterate. It's just amazing, either she's only got elementary school or she doesn't have any education or any qualifications. I don't want to talk about the age structure now, it's half, it's more women, it seems to me 53% on the National Service records and what's going on on the labour market that's not as static as it gets, because you've had a constant number of unemployed people over four or five years on the National Service records and it's going to sound amazing to you, but we had 913,000 in 2006, which is considered prosperous. I mean, that indicator doesn't have to tell us much. What's wrong? It's bad that people are losing their jobs in Serbia, they are, and that's exactly what's happened, about 400,000 in the previous period, since the economic crisis occurred, very difficult to get back to the labour market, and there is such a paradoxical situation that the number on the record is always the same, about 750,000, and on the other hand you have people who lose their jobs. These people who lose their jobs do not return to records, but some either retire or leave the labour market because they are not in a position to seek work, nor have a chance on the labour market itself, either for years or qualifications and a whole series of other reasons. This situation is very complex, and when it comes to employment and this problem, it seems to me that any politicisation should be put aside. This is indeed Serbia's biggest problem right now, and it needs to be approached seriously without any claim, that anyone who accuses it is. There are a whole series of objective reasons, but there are, of course, very subjective reasons, very high responsibility for all the governments that were in Serbia, beginning, here, to say October 5th to this day. Of course, the economic crisis has played a significant role, not only in Serbia but throughout the world. At this point, there are over 55 million unemployed people in the world. The unemployment rate has almost doubled in all countries of Europe, in some and more than double. That expenditure couldn't have been so dramatic with us, because otherwise we had a large number of unemployed people. So the labour market is dynamic. The world of work is about people coming in and out, like in a supermarket, it's not about the same people. I wasn't planning on answering as head of the parliamentary group now, but the previous discussion made me do it in some way. I also want to say something about the National Employment Service. He has an unfortunate name, and because of that unfortunate name, people often mix some important things. The National Service has never hired anyone, nor will they hire other than those who work in the national service themselves. That wrong understanding, partly out of ignorance, ignorance, or because of the name itself, leads people to such conclusions, to say, so who did they hire? I say right away, never to anyone, nor to anyone. So people in Serbia and everywhere in the world are employed by employers. The national service intervenes in this employment, and I can proudly say that this national service is one of the best institutions in this country, not for the reason I've worked in it. Even before that, since 2000, she has had one constant in quality and development and I can tell you that there are also serious praises on the international agenda for her work, she's quite arranged. For the sake of truth, I will give you information that every year between 50,000 and 70 thousand people are employed through the National Employment Service, with the direct intervention of the same national service. Unfortunately, a lot of people are losing their jobs, so that's not the kind of effect you'd expect. I also have an official record that says that in 2012, here it says, employment from the National Service records is 205,000 people, so it would sound amazing to someone that she hired so much the National Service. No, because this is where those contracts that are being renewed for three months, for six months, and then that information would be incorrect. What results from direct employment and intervention of the National Service is the figure between 50 and 70 thousand depending on year to year, which is not really small. As for the costs and expenditures of the National Service, and I have to say that when you say - 30 billion or more, it sounds really impressive, but when you see the structure, it's actually about a cash fee that is, I think, 80 or 90% of that sum, something that is active employment measures, it seems to me to be about five billion. Of course, every institution, including the National Service, must have expenses related to the maintenance of all systems, including photocopiers and cars, and everything else. I really don't get into whether these expenditures are above something the average is smaller or bigger, but they are necessary and necessary. When someone says that the National Employment Service, which really needs to change its name, doesn't do its job well and someone blames the National Service for why people don't hire, it's the same thing as blaming grandmothers for not having children in Serbia. So there's mixed stuff. It's not the grandmothers' fault, it's who's responsible for it. As far as the number of employees in the National Service is concerned, it is one of the few institutions, given the circumstances I know, which has reduced the number of employees. The moment I took over the National Service was exactly 2,340 employees, the moment I left it was 1,980. So the National Service has reduced the number of unemployed. According to that parameter when you compare, and that's seen and that's for international comparisons, 750,000 unemployed on 2,000 employees in the National Service, that's more than I think three and a half thousand unemployed per employee. This is far below and below the European average and something that makes this service optimally efficient. So the standard in Europe is from 800 to 1,200 unemployed at maximum once. So this National Service would have to have at least three times as many people to be at some European level. It's not real, it's not even possible, so in that sense I don't insist, but I'm saying that the number of unemployed is reduced. I can also say that I also found 8,200 people as director of the tax administration when I arrived in 2004. When I left the IRS, the number was 6,800. So, the institution also decreased by 15% as regards the number of employees. So I also made a personal contribution to reducing the administration and the number of public service employees. I don't think there's any service except for these two, maybe I'm wrong, which has so dramatically reduced the number of unemployed. In the end, I want to say what the solution is. It is not a short-term solution for unemployment, it is, above all, a change of attitude towards work, of course, which includes changes in the Labour Act, to go towards more liberal legislation. So we need a more liberal labour law, more flexible in terms of easier layoffs and easier employment. All countries that have liberal labour legislation have lower unemployment rates. We need a serious change in the education system and a serious reform that could respond to these paradoxes and these discrepancies in the labour market. It seems to me that this government and all future governments have to take seriously to realize that without a good education system, without forecasts on the labour market, which are also one of the functions that is developing, and that is good that it is developing in the National Service, we cannot overcome. We need a business environment, attracting investors and everything investors talk about, and what our partners from Europe are suggesting. So the whole government and the whole society must work in this direction to create preconditions for opening jobs, and that is the only way to make this service even more efficient and, of course, solve the problems of thousands, hundreds of thousands, of those who are waiting for work today in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12093	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic, you probably want a replica of the exhibition, although he did not call you personally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12094	Thank you. He was talking about what I was saying. The man agrees that's what he said. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without desire to make evil blood, but I must answer what has been said. I can understand that as the former director of the Service that he and I spoke of, he wants to highlight his contribution to the work of the ministry and to say that this service is as he described it. I can understand that, though I would never do that. Let me answer what Mr. Ilic said I said. Of course, the service is called the National Employment Service. She assists or intervenes, or whatever you want, but I was telling parts of the report about how much money was spent. I didn't invent 30 billion dinars. He's just as he is, and I also pulled out a report from the National Service where they say that with their assistance, so many people, 50,000, so 25,000 people found employment. Of course, comparing the National Employment Service with midwives is a matter of taste and I don't want to discuss it at all, but I would also like to know who's responsible, who's responsible, first, because citizens expect the National Employment Service to mediate in employment. They don't get that. That's what citizens used to come to us here, asking MPs to hire them, asking everyone who could hire them, because apparently the service that should be doing it doesn't work. Next, what else was said? Of course, I haven't accused the Service of her being guilty because so many and so many people are unemployed. I'd also like to get an answer to that and who's to blame, who's who's responsible because so many people can't find a job? This is a huge problem and someone has to answer that question – who's to blame? The National Employment Service is a huge service with a very silly name and with the responsibility it has received from the state, or the authority to work, assist in employment, among other things, to do human education or similar things. That's all there is to it. If you have huge expenses on one side, and the service is big, branched... (President: Time, Mrs. Vojic Markovic. Thank you. In other words, I just said that she has to change the way she works.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12095	National MP Vladimir Ilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12096	I'm glad you accepted one suggestion after all. You're no longer expressing yourself in a way that the National Service needs to hire someone, but to assist in employment and that is the point. The national service may be responsible only if it does not provide the employer with the necessary adequate workforce and sometimes it is objectively impossible, as may be the case if some of the investments announced are announced, especially in high technologies, e.g. If someone were looking for an astronaut, I cite it as an example, in Serbia it's hard to find. The National Service itself can't be held responsible. I want to say, if you're already asking who's responsible, and I don't want the discussion going in the direction of responsibility, of course the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this, and the previous, and all of those back, most responsible because it actually creates a policy that needs to create jobs. The National Service is only one service that actually, as I said, assists in this business. I'm telling you, and I assure you, I have not boasted in any way with my contribution. I was in that service for a very short time. I said that this service has been developing as a rare example, practically since 2000 to this day in one good direction, into a modern service. Of course there are weaknesses and she is, but compared to the environment, with public employment services in the environment, progressing far faster. No inappropriate comparison is when I mentioned midwives. I said, "If someone blames the National Service for not hiring people, it's the same thing as blaming grandmothers for not having children." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12097	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12098	I'll apologize to my colleague if I haven't used the word correctly enough, or I may have said it several times in the conversation, actually, if you're assisting in employment. The effect of all this is employment. If I may have hurt his feelings when the Service likes to assist, here's what I suggest is to change the name of the Service, to call it an assistive job. She's called the National Employment Service. So from the name you can figure out what she's doing. That's how it was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12099	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12100	Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, I am pleased to see here today in Parliament a proposal for two conventions which, as discussed in the debate in Parliament so far, are very important for the field of work and which, by their very appearance here, have brought great attention and some debate. At first, I would like to say that the draft law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention No. 181 on private employment agencies and IOR No. 150 on labour administration is important and that the SPS will certainly vote in favour of the proposals that are here before us. Why? These conventions concern further work, employment, the position of workers and overall relations in the control and evaluation of labour policy. They belong to activities that are important for the implementation of so-called "the so-called ". The programme of decent work in the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 2008-2011, and I particularly underline it because it implies the creation of a mile in which work is respected, respected and placed in a specific place that is regulated and determined by law and systems and which creates a legal basis for the worker to be respected in the workplace. Our country is in the process of implementing policies and institutional changes foreseen by national development strategies. These strategies aim to adapt both the institutional and legislative framework that needs to create a modern, orderly and open labour market, which is in line with these new relations that are forming and developing with us and the currents that are present. Our goal is both economic development and creation or creation of new jobs. To achieve this, it is also necessary to implement the reorganisation of institutions, and this is also going in that direction, which is responsible for work and employment. This requires promotion and modernisation and the Public Employment Service, which has now been specifically discussed, as well as regulation, development and supervision of private employment agencies that have been established, operated and operated in a certain way. Therefore, ratifications of the Convention, for example, number 181 on private employment agencies, means another step in harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. In particular, this convention was adopted in Geneva in 1997 and thus became part of European legislation. Over 30 countries adopted them. When we look at a little convention, the key words are: workers, personal data processing, representative organisations, employers, workers, states. This draft law in Article 8 provides for the possibility of achieving adequate protection for migrant workers, which so far has not been a word in this discussion, which I believe is very important and particularly, and if and when they, which should also be regular practice, are regularly employed, which has already begun here. When workers from one country are recruited to work in another country, it also creates an opportunity to conclude bilateral agreements aimed at preventing abuse and illegal employment. This Convention also, which has not been mentioned so far, provides for measures against child abuse and exploitation of children and child labour as one particular form that exists, we hope not so developed, but, in any case, it is represented in the field and in the field of work. The second convention, which is 150 on the administration of work, involves the creation of an institutional framework to manage the administration of work in new economic conditions that overcome the affairs and responsibilities of the ministry itself, or a special republican service. That is why this law allows all activities that help to create, implement, control and evaluate labour policy to be covered. These are jobs that engage the entire system of ministries and public agencies, which deal with labour issues, as well as participation and coordination of the activities of employers, workers and trade unions. The law provides for the possibility that some forms of records should be delegated to lower forms of government, local self-government, NGOs, or not an example of some union organisations for their own branch. This convention, to remind myself, was adopted in 1978 in Geneva, ratified yesterday over 70 countries, as Mr. Minister himself said in his opening presentation, and also when we adopt and become part of our working legislation provides for the adjustment of our regulation of this field of work and its better alignment with the laws of the European Union. I underline that this issue and the harmonisation of our domestic legislation with the laws of the European Union, I think it is significant, not because of the European Union, not because of our desire to become an integral part of it, I think it is significant, primarily because of ourselves. In order to have a modern, orderly state, in order to have an orderly relationship, we also have to have modern laws that are consistent with what exists on the market itself and in all the forms in which work can appear. So, also in the way that employers act on the market, as they are organised, what they offer, what their rights are, which are their obligations, which are the rights, which are the obligations of employees, while respecting very much what I said at the beginning, what are standards of decent work and that according to it and these things, of course workers are in the right place. In that, of course, the state, as it turns out, has its own important place. So, when it comes to these conventions, I believe that they are very important, that the Ministry has made one significant step, but it is also shown that in these processes it is very important that the role of socio-economic advice that we must not at any time neglect, nor neglect, not because of it as such, but because of the participation and position of all actors that make up one socio-economic dialogue and partners who, of course, appear responsible. Here, above all, the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour is mentioned responsibility, importance and role of the union, then, the Employment Agency, or the labour market. Everyone from their point of view, and from the miles they come from, talked about the importance of some of these subjects. I'd like to introduce two other actors here, which I find very important when it comes to labour, labour relations and employment, which is, above all, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture. Or government policy, which creates working conditions, which creates the possibility that, in the context of achieving their policies, in particular, these ministries of economy, or agriculture, will provide funding. They create these necessary miles that later the Ministry of Labour, its activities and its competences develop, in all other areas that are relevant to the position of employees. Here, of course, I would point out the importance of something that is also mentioned, and that is that we must now think responsibly about what our labour force is offering, what our adjustment is in this sense, education, what this new field of work is looking for, not just from what Serbia has today, but from what Serbia is going to be tomorrow. One country that has an open market, which has an open opportunity and the arrival of new employers, the arrival of new people who will be hired here and the arrangement of their rights in accordance with international affairs, with international conditions and organised and with international responsibilities and rights in this area. Therefore, I also believe that when developing their policies, the Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, means all those sectors and employers, of course, all those sectors that talk about new jobs and about a new offer to employ people, must create opportunities that can also arise under the same conditions as domestic employers, as well as foreign employers, and that there is no difference in that sense. Finally, all of this can enable one better dispersion and rationale of forms of work, the professions that are being employed, the adaptation of various education systems to the needs of the field of work, the creation of opportunities for regular and proper working time, working conditions, working relationships, that there is no mobing, that there is working protection and that, in that sense, what we create as an opportunity for employment always has in mind and something that is very, very painful about us, and there is, an age structure of the population. Given what we are doing today, in order to tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the young workforce will find its place here, in order to be a responsible entity that creates new values, and which will be able to create new values, with older and older categories of population having to be adapted to new markets, for also their involvement in work processes in an appropriate way, which must create a new dimension in relation to the work, place and role of each man in relation to this area. So, in any case, I believe that these conventions are very important in this sense, that they create new opportunities and ensure, of course, that, in the coming period, the overall legislative activity in the fields of work, strike, employment and all other spheres in this area is more orderly and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12101	Thank you, too. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12102	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here after seven or eight months, as far as this government is concerned, have come to work. True, not with some law that would improve their position, but with ratification of a convention that has been adopted for 15 years, and with another about a year or so longer. Of course, the adoption of these conventions is necessary and the previous government has put into the process the adoption of these conventions, but surely it is for great concern, which this government does not, in fact, have any programme concerning the employment of the unemployed. In fact, the fact is that this government and this ruling coalition have far-reaching jobs, the creation of various affairs, it's hard to count them all, from day to day one catch up to the other, the media can't even escort, but we wouldn't know what's last and what happened today while we're sitting here. This would certainly not be blamed by the minister sitting here, who is certainly the least guilty of these affairs, the only thing that is surely his responsibility is the fact that he is sitting in that government, which has no understanding for the unemployed. That the unemployed are not concerned by the fact, there have been a lot of statistics, that 3.4 billion are foreseen for employment this year. For the sake of comparison, five times more is foreseen for the unemployed who are at the labor bureau or at the Employment Service. So it could be said that it's a three-billion-dollar trick that can't be done seriously to get these, as you said 762.576 of our citizens, who have a single dream, which is a job, to get hope and to make their dream come true. The number of unemployed is growing. Games with statistics these days how 1.546 people are less on the desk now than in the same period last year are throwing dust in the eyes. Why? Well, more than 1.546 people left the country in the meantime looking for work across the borders of the Republic of Serbia. So, here are only people who have been deleted from the employment records, no increase in the number of employees. It is good that we will adopt today two conventions concerning opportunities and that private agencies are engaged in employment. There is one problem here, and it is not by any chance that this convention has waited 15 years for adoption in this House. In order for a convention to be introduced into a single country's legal system, because by adopting the Convention it becomes an integral part of the legal system, it is necessary to prepare the country's positive legislation for the application of this Convention. I can't see from reason, nor from the government's acts that we have prepared our legislation for the application of some of the measures in these conventions. For example, in the International Labour Organisation Convention number 181 on private employment agencies, it is said that, under certain conditions, signatories may prohibit business, the work of private employment agencies in respect of certain categories of workers or branches of economic activity in the provision of one or more services to which Article 1(1) of this Convention is called, to exempt workers under certain conditions in certain branches of economic activity or parts thereof under the subject-matter of this Convention, etc. So, I'm asking a question to the Government's representative -- have we considered whether any branches, any areas, should be excluded from the application of this Convention? There are still some questions about the fact that these private employment agencies can take care of migrant employment. So, people who come to Serbia, they have the right to ask for their job. And that part should be regulated with positive legal regulations. I'm not sure that's arranged. The second thing, when the workers of one country are recruited into another country, and the issue should be more detailed, because that option is only envisaged here. What is certainly important, what is important to pay attention to when it comes to workers, the employment of unemployed, is the fact that this government has brought a number of legislative acts in the previous period, which are marginally affecting workers' issues, but none of these acts have been in the sense of mending the position of workers, but this question has been left to any subsequent government. All the measures we had here so far, all the laws we had, to some extent, had populist goals and didn't concern the need of ordinary citizens. I'll tell you some things some of the next government will probably do to reduce the number of unemployed. This is certainly giving certain benefits in self-employment and the development of family companies up to 10 employees, who are strategically important for this country, therefore, small, family companies and the possibility of, say, five years of the company, i.e. companies free of all charges, further, providing better market conditions for small and medium-sized producers with more potential world producers, greater participation of the state, i.e. better conditions in their countries and more competitive compared to our companies. So there could be many more measures, but certainly the fact that there is a possibility, perhaps it should have been the first measure of this government, so in pre-election activities and promised, it is that the level of contributions paid by employers, by one employee, is reduced by 50%. Certainly one measure can be, and not that, to raise the price of gas or electricity, so you say that some categories will be excluded from that measure, because we know that they can't pay for neither electricity nor gas if no one in the family is working. Perhaps the government's measure could also be that the state somehow ensures that each family has an employee. Then we'd have more investment in the economy and less for the unemployed. I've read to you or convinced you a part of the program that the DS will present in the coming days, because we see that this government has no ability to change anything when it comes to the position of workers. Of course, we will also seek the support of the union, all those who care about surviving Serbia, that families in Serbia can pay both the phone and the electricity and the gas, not become the social state that this government wants us to do. We also talked about the fact that it seems like the only measure of the new government, possibly the representative of the U.S.S., would be to change the name of the National Employment Service. I don't know what you're up to or who will be best man, but it can only be the opposite of employment - for non-employment or firing service. The way you work, that's how it's gonna be. Mr. Krkobic, don't let Mladjan Dinkic determine the amount of investment in jobless employment, because it has proved very poor so far. You are a responsible man and I don't think there will be any funding in the next period or for these pensions if Mladjan Dinkic is filled with the employment budget. When it comes to Serbia's unemployment rate, 24.7%, it was not much smaller even in the previous period. However, do not forget that in the previous period this country, as well as all countries in the environment and the world, has hit a major economic crisis and has maintained the number of employees, i.e. not to increase the number of unemployed, was just the right undertaking. However, the ranks on the Bureau are growing. The number of unemployed both with primary school, with high school, and with college is huge. For example, the number of unemployed with primary school and the problem of unemployment education is serious. The number of unemployed with primary school is 218,641. I don't think this number is quite accurate, because I'm sure she's at least one smaller one, because she's almost in the City Council of the New Now employed member who hasn't finished elementary school yet. I think there are still cases like this in Serbia. By the way, South Korea is the country with the lowest unemployment rate - 3.7% and in South Korea the percentage of unemployed has increased. He didn't fall there either, and to be clear, the global crisis has hit everything. However, South Korea has measures to prevent an increase in unemployment, although it is 3.7%. This government doesn't have it and it's not getting ready for it. There was a full O.R. the other day when we were talking about the VBA. Today there are no representatives of the ruling coalition, very few of them. On the other hand, on the list registered for the discussion, 50% of the representatives are DS, there are other representatives from the opposition. This theme does not seem to be an interesting ruling coalition. Did the SNS programme, the SPS, and not order further parties of the ruling coalition have many, were amendments to the VBA Act? Who said anything about it in the program? New jobs were mentioned, jobless employment, employment of a highly qualified workforce. That was also said by Mr Dinkic, it was the main electoral slogan, no one mentioned amnesty of criminals, etc. These conventions may be a good example of this government waking up. Our goal is to tell us how bad you are doing, because we wish we could fix some of the laws that you're going to put in the process in this area, which you're going to give incentives, I've cited some of the measures that are in the DS programme, which are going to be presented, how you're going to increase the number of employees, how you're going to reduce the contributions to wages. In the proposal for a Convention, i.e. the Law attesting International Labour Organisation No 150 on the Administration of Labour, it could be said that there are some points which should certainly be respected by our statistical services. In this Convention, it is said that services entrusted with keeping records of unemployed persons, whether they are obliged or able to keep records, say, of tenants who do not engage in external assistance - politicians and similar categories of agricultural workers, only employed persons who do not engage in external assistance, with interest in the informal sector, as it is understood in domestic practice, members of cooperatives, etc. What does this convention essentially bring into our legal system? It brings to the state the real number of employees and unemployed, those who are looking for a job and those who are formally on employee records. In that sense, the employment accent should be placed on the real unemployed, not on those on the black market, because here it is in some way suggested that you too be recorded. Or they should be removed from the employment records. In any case, this figure that is given to employees could be shifted to incentives in employment. We almost had a law on agricultural incentives here on the agenda, while we were already on incentives and rural development, your colleague, Knezevic, did not want to hear about some of our proposals that were intended to fix this law, to create incentives to find opportunities for self-employment in rural areas. And now 50% of Serbia are rural areas. That's something to take care of. It doesn't matter if the proposal comes from the DS, they were rejected, I think, because they were DS and they weren't even a little politically colored. In the end, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President, it would be good for you to start a question at one of the next sessions and put before the Prime Minister, the first vice president, some of the burning problems, not only to deal with topics that are popular and which raise the rating parties. We'll have choices, someone will win those elections, but how will the citizens welcome those elections? Is he going to go to that election at all? Try to shake the sleeping ministers who are in charge of this area, and above all when it comes to finance, try to save what can be saved. This situation in Serbia, where daily policy is more important than the key issues of people -- gas prices, oil, urban transport, heating, etc., will not lead us anywhere, nor the ruling coalition, nor us in the opposition that we want to take over tomorrow's leadership of this country, because it seems to us that the ruling coalition has no knowledge or skill. Again, to say that these criticisms are not directed to you, but to the fact that financial resources are not allocated to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12103	Time. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure done by the previous chairman - Art. 106th and 107th. Article 106 in the 1st position says - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. It is said in article 107 – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The 2nd point states that it is not allowed to use offensive expressions. The previous speaker spoke more than half the time outside of each agenda topic, and I'm afraid there are two Rules of Procedures here. I have no objection to the opposition's positive discrimination, but I think it's exaggerating again. There are two Rules of Procedures, one for us, especially one for me, and the other for distinguished opposition colleagues. The previous speaker spoke about the City Council in Novi Sad, spoke about the VBA, talked about Mladjan Dinkic, talked about agriculture, and talked about the current government, about the lines that are growing, and this is about the unemployed. I don't think they're employment experts, they're just experts in non-employment. It's very offensive, to pin some of your sins on some new next government, and to charge the unemployment that reached 26.9%. Since 2008, from 400,000 unemployed, we have reached 800,000. It's lost 400,000 people's jobs. A million people don't have any income, and 370,000 people over 65 don't have any income. Those who speak, say quite offensively, that the great economic crisis is to blame for everything. They promised 300,000 jobs more, and they brought 400,000 jobs less, and they attribute it to the new government, which is very offensive to most of them, which I belong to myself. (President: Time. ) They are by hiring worse than tsunamis.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12105	Thank you. I ask all MPs to stick to the agenda topics in their presentation. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted.) ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12106	Madam Chairman, the previous debater has already pointed to an injury I was referring to, but if you'll allow me one sentence, Article 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12107	I can't let you, because I'd break the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12108	Of course, DS obviously has a responsibility problem, and I don't want to compromise, or bring in any evil blood, but here's some friendly advice. So face your responsibility. No one trusts you to speak to the URS anymore, Mladjan Dinkic. Take that part of responsibility, you'll be better off. Enough to transfer you to another disaster you've made in this country. No one can hide it either. That's quite clear. As for the program, Mr. Stojan Stamenkovic, whom I believe to be a great economist, said for your program, which you recently launched, he didn't know whether to laugh or cry. These ideas of yours I've heard are on that level. Therefore, my appeal and request to you, stop saying someone else, face responsibility, it will be better for you and all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12109	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, on behalf of the DS, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12110	It's not our fault, the U.R.S. This whole government is our fault. We often resent talking to you too much. Here, now I'm talking to the SNS. You're guilty of letting these people run the economy, finance and health of this country, and they destroyed everything alive, except for the Bayus rafts and the Hotel on the Old Mountain, which otherwise went down. So it's your progressors' fault that you're giving one man, with a small percentage of support, to make it impossible for Mr. Krkobic to do something about growing huge social problems in the Republic of Serbia. You're guilty of tolerateting people like this in this country, with so little support, that they're always giving us sermons, not realizing they're preaching to themselves, because they were in the previous government. You're guilty of looking at their blackmail and conditioning that the ministers are coming here to embarrass themselves, they don't have a yellow dinar, because they've been doing the same to us. You're guilty because you haven't learned a single lesson from our case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12111	The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12112	Dear Chairman, I call on article 106. I will read – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The previous speaker has been attacking the government for three minutes, and look what's on the agenda, he's not the government at all. It's not about the previous, it's about half an hour and before, before you came, Mr. Chairman General... I agree that it should be tolerated to the opposition, but to say that Mladjan Dinkic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Ivica Dacic are guilty of something that is not true. Yet one of the speakers is a professor of the university and should not speak falsely, for example, that this government leads to the sun. For the sake of truth, I'll just say one sentence, which all Serbian citizens heard the day before yesterday, that industrial production has increased by 7% this month, Mr. Vesenovicu. Second, that the drop in employment was stopped. When this government came to power, I was the one who said in this assembly that if it stopped the sunflower that you gentlemen of the DS brought in, at least four years from now, the Nobel Prize for this government needs... (National MP Dragan Sutanovac throws out of place. Mr. Sutanovac, is there anything you don't understand? Twenty-seventy million euros you're guilty of at the Department of Defense? (President: Please do not address the MP directly. ) Please, allow me, the MP speak directly to me. Let me finish. So, for the benefit of Serbian citizens, I end Madam Chairman, and unfortunately, gentlemen of the DS, industrial production has increased by 7% this month, unemployment has stopped. (President: Time. ) Serbia is better in international relations today than in the last 20 years. I have no intention of defending this government. She'll do it better than I can. Don't tell the truth. He's a professor at the university, Mr. Vesenović. It's not right of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12113	Article 106 was not injured, given that the previous speaker replicated to Mr Ilic. Again, I ask all MPs to follow the agenda. Mr. Ilic came forward first, please. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: I answered first. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12114	President, give Mr. Veselinović a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12115	Okay. Mr. Veselinović, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12116	Thank you. I really don't think I should respond to unserious criticism, or intrusions, as I would call them. First of all, when it comes to the subject of the agenda, they read yesterday's encyclopedias, military ones, and they read, yesterday it was on the agenda of the encyclopaedia. It is simply not polite on the side of the position that whenever the opposition criticises the ruling coalition on very serious issues, it raises its rules of procedure, they are upset. It's true, the number of unemployed has been reduced. I know of one, I already said, in Novi Sad. The rest are their employment, i.e. the reduction in the number of unemployed, as a result of their departure abroad. It is true that the previous government is also responsible for this situation for keeping Mladjan Dinkic in government until six months before the end of the government's term. In that sense, we admit our mistake. We believe that you should not have made that mistake, not because of us, but because of the citizens of Serbia. It's sad that people who see themselves as representatives of the people, when we try to contribute to the discussion... Mr. Babic has arrived. He's taking out his card. He'll probably be doing the same thing. We will no longer participate in replicas, even if I do, because we have brought very seriously our objections to this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12117	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12118	When Mr Stefanovic said -- well, I'm not going to talk to you from the URS, now I'm going to show these guys from the SNS, say I'm tired of fighting crime and corruption and all that they're doing, I thought they'd have a hard break. But like his leader, this was an investment. You already asked them to let you go to the government, and they said it was out of the question. I think if you keep begging them to join the government, don't salt their minds, scare them with the U.S.S. I said don't say it, nobody trusts you anymore. You've made a disaster in the country. You can't cover up the mess in your party. That's obvious. I didn't mention your leader, but I have to tell you that, too. I don't mean anything personal. Unlike Dinkic, who in the first month of this year reduced the deficit in the budget, which you said would be much larger, by seven billion, reduced the debt you made. So, there's results. Your leader will not answer us, nor will he have the wealth he has, nor why he hides companies in Slovakia, how is it possible that his companies have a dramatic growth in income in the last six years, and how did he get jobs? Is it through those private agencies we're talking about today? Who gave him these jobs? Why don't you answer those questions? Where did he get all this property? Come on, come on, answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12119	The word is Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12120	I see you're taking the atmosphere out of the D.A.'s interrogations. I'm not saying that you personally know what it looks like, but maybe the people of your party will find out soon enough. So don't ask us questions – come on, say it, admit it and stuff like that. The second thing, who has any firms, whether they have companies and if they do business under the law, I will repeat only the mantra repeated by the ruling coalition -- the authorities will investigate everything to the end and will not be spared in the fight against corruption and crime. We support it. We even support it so much that someone can't apologize to someone and we can shut up right now. You know, if something's wrong. Therefore, we will not apologize to anyone. We're just going to point to everything that's wrong so far and we don't need to invest in anyone. You've told the truth that we're asking to enter a government. We're not asking at all to enter a government, we're just very effective in showing that almost nothing has been done in the field of economic recovery and stopping unemployment in this country, and when you want to take the subject off something that's so pleasant, you're bringing things up from the front of a tabloid. This shows how seriously you are experiencing problems in the Republic of Serbia. You don't take them seriously. As far as this example is concerned, we have just repeated what was in the press and what is easy to prove as true, since your party has developed a parabug system through the so-called so-called. For years, the NIP and the Development Fund and through these systems have channelled funds into people, projects and companies that are close to you. That's what every child in Serbia knows, as everyone knows, that they can't do in economics, finance and the economy of this country anything to do without your party. As everyone knows, there was nothing in health care. As everyone knows, Serbia is the only European country to increase VAT, not reduce the issue for contributions and other things. (President): Please, time. So, you came up with live experiments to impoverish the citizens of this country, but it's not your fault, because it's in the nature of you and your leader. We don't invest when we say the biggest party is responsible, because it allows you, thinking that Serbian citizens will be fed through continuous arrest announcements without ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12121	The People's MP Dragan Sutanovac has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12122	Thank you. I get the impression that there is no time here, not in terms of the time in which parliament works, but simply in three months, there will be a full year of the election, and it has been six months since the government and the government. Saying the guy that the former government is responsible for something they don't just stand for anymore. An increase of 7% of what you ruined last year cannot go to the expense of the former government, especially I believe that the esteemed colleagues in the U.S.S. can't accept it because they were in charge of employment and their representative was in business. The change now spoken for the deficit simply does not exist. The fact is that the new budget law has deprived all ministries of their own income. So, no ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia has its own income anymore. These revenues go to the benefit of the budget, which reduces the deficit. The fact that other ministries are damaged and unable to function is now less important. It's a mantra we've seen before. Don't tell us what's simply wrong. Today, the Military Medical Academy cannot function because if it charges foreigners treated at the Military Medical Academy, the money goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the funds used to treat salaries to the Military Medical Academy. That's why there's a smaller deficit in that budget than it was, and that's the facts. Dimming that essence is simply not good, because all of your colleagues who are in the government know today, as well as counterpart Krkobibic, that earlier each ministry has had its own incomes, which is no longer the case. Don't talk about the reduction of something, on the contrary, I think that's why you've even put certain ministries in a position that they can't function. When you're going to do rebalancing, we'll see, but I guarantee you that this rebalancing will first of all apply to the fact that the ministries no longer have their own incomes and can't do their own development and can't do all the things they've done so far, which are necessary for the progress of this ministry, state and society as a whole. I don't know, Mr. MP, which is the 270 million dinars you've been thinking about, explain what this is about, because I'm interested in what it's all about. I believe that the citizens of Serbia should also get an explanation, because you are obviously talking about some matter that either you do not know or consult the yellow press that is used only for attacks on the opposition and certainly promoting what you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12123	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, we were present just before with a very inspired presentation, a stylishly perfect, least on the subject, and much more on some day-to-day political matters, but what is qualified by this exposure is the untrueness and lack of facts, because in order to support the claim that someone is doing bad or that someone is doing worse than the predecessors has to support it with facts, data. What Mr. Vesenovic forgets and thinks the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are forgetting is the next thing. It is not enough for the DS to change the president, to drive out several MPs from its membership and to forget everything - turkey dots, no responsibilities. He's got responsibilities. This government of the Republic of Serbia was created on a clear handover. What did we find, and now what is it? Perhaps Mr Vesenovic wanted to say that this government of the Republic of Serbia did not go into a fundamental fight against crime and corruption. Mr. Veselinovic may not see what the whole of Serbia sees, but that should only be said clearly, to go public and say something like that. As far as SNS is concerned, we are the largest and dominant factor and factor of this government of the Republic of Serbia. We have never run from responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have responsibility now. As long as the principles of SNS are respected, or as Mr Stefanovic says – the mantra of zero tolerance for crime and corruption, as long as it is respected that there are no protected, no matter what names and sacred policies, estrads or businesses have come to, and this is Mr Alexander Vucic, president of the SNS, in the previous period and proved, this government will survive and will always have a partner in the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12125	I think it's time we get back to the agenda. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica! I have to answer. You don't have to answer. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12126	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today are on the agenda of two conventions, two international conventions, namely the Convention on Private Agencyes and the Labour Administration Convention. By putting and proposing these two conventions on the agenda, this government has shown great responsibility, precisely because the previous plan and the previous government for the period 2008-2011 provided for the ratification of these two conventions as one of the objectives. This has not happened, for reasons why we will not enter, but this government, of course, is showing responsibility in the segment of the work of employment and social policy. This government also shows responsibility in all other segments. Respected Serbian citizens, the story of employment, that is, the story of a large number of unemployed people, is a painful issue for the country. The government is ready to work in all segments of its operation to make the number of unemployed people as small as possible. The Serbian Progressive Party has always spoken and advocated this in concrete work and shows that the country's greatest value is human. Therefore, for his rights, and the right to work is one of the basic human rights, the SNS will certainly stand for it. I'm not going to elaborate any further, although there's something else I'd like to say. The problem of working, hiring unemployed people is part of social policy. Social policy, only in balance with economic policy, can lead the country to progress. In these six months, the government has shown that, in all segments of both economic policy and social policy, it is taking adequate steps and, of course, to protect and improve Serbia's citizens. Now I'm going back to the convention. As regards both of these conventions, the SNS will certainly accept because they represent the approximation of EU standards and harmonisation of legislative relations, i.e. ratification of international contracts, in accordance with Article 194(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, they become part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. As for this first convention concerning private agencies, I would like to stress that it regulates the work of private agencies, but, of course, what is for us and how significant, and the protection of workers. So, not only the work of private agencies, but also the protection of workers. In particular, I'd like to draw attention to articles 8, 9, and, I think, 11. I'm not quite sure if these members are, I think they are, that I wouldn't be going through the papers, and they're referring to the ban on the abuse of migrant labour, to the ban on child labour and to the ban on child labour. In addition, this Convention on private agencies also refers to data that private employment agencies are obliged to collect, i.e. the obligation of private agencies to take care of the privacy of those persons, and to take data and operate on data relating to professional training and previous professional work experience. As for the second convention, the Labour Administration Convention, it is also important, but from the aspect of labour policy. Namely, what's important to say here? It is important to say that jobs have increased and complicated both in economic policy and in social policy. Of course, it is certainly not only one or two ministries that responds to the complexity of the work. In order to adequately conduct social policy, i.e. to adequately conduct a labour policy, there must be coordination between the ministries that have labour affairs in their jurisdiction, there must be a national framework for this. In addition to ministries, public agencies, national employment services, certainly the component of the body must be trade unions, representative union representatives and employers. Only together with trade unions, or only together with workers, can we build adequate labour policy, and the SNS expects the ministry to be responsible for these jobs precisely to achieve that goal and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12127	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, government representatives, I must also at first express my satisfaction that you are here today, given that we have been waiting for you for several committees on work and social affairs. There we also adopted your report, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is the minister who should defend that report. You have not shown up, but I hope that you will be present at these sessions in the future and will normally answer our questions when submitting the report. Today we are talking about two conventions related to work and social issues. These are international conventions adopted by the International Labour Organisation No. 150 on Labour Administration and number 181 on private employment agencies. These two conventions should encourage a decent employment programme, which has already been said here in this assembly. I must also point out that these two conventions are factual aids or certain assumptions for job creation, to preserve old jobs, to create a new labour policy that will be controlled in some future period. But you'll agree with me, Mr. Minister, as far as we've adopted the convention here, if Serbia's economy isn't strong, there's nothing to do with opening new jobs. If the state does not make special efforts to bring foreign investors or domestic investors, to regulate it in a special way, to create this economic policy, to pass quality laws, only then will we be able to talk about opening and preserving new jobs. If you can, Mr. Chairman, interrupt your class for Mr. Borko Stefanovic. I thank you, Mr Stefanovic, for allowing me to address this national parliament. Thank you, too, for following. You will agree with me for sure, it is that it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia that must create a employment policy and that during the campaign all those who have said there will be new jobs that have fallen into the water. They didn't even manage to save those jobs we had. So first I'm going to look back at the Labour Administration Convention. Over 72 countries adopted this convention. Otherwise, the essence of the adoption of this Convention is to relax the work of a state-run apparatus dealing with labour and social policy, certain items are transferred to other agencies, to local self-government or other institutions, not to solve a few ministries dealing with this problem. A complete infrastructure should be built, an administration that will create a single labour and social policy policy. Normally, this system needs to be coordinated, and it must not endanger the autonomy of employers and workers themselves. The second, however, is the Convention on Private Employment Agencys. You know well that this convention has ratified over 30 countries, only 18 EU countries, I deliberately apostrophe it, so not all EU countries. So, in the meantime, in 2003, we passed the Employment Act and for the first time in our legislation the possibility of opening such private employment agencies. Now there's about 50 of them right now and they're dealing with this problem. What's certainly an anomaly is that individual agencies take certain material resources from those people who hire on the basis of membership fees. I expect the Ministry to react in this regard, to remove that anomaly, so that it doesn't happen in the future. Also, this Convention provides for close co-operation between the National Employment Service and the private employment agencies themselves because it is estimated that there are opportunities on the market for one institution and for another institution to work. If only both institutions were working at full capacity, Serbia would not be unemployed today, I am convinced of that, and I am sure of that. So, when it comes to these National Employment Services, we can say that for this year the state has set over a billion, for the expenditures of 178 branches or outposts of this service, and on the records of that service, as we have heard, speculation is being made somewhere between 700 and 800,000 people waiting for work. However, my opinion is that it is not essential to deal with employment issues but how to strengthen the economy and how to replace this employment dynamic, to determine this employment dynamic. It reminds me of the previous government that said that, it was the social and responsible government, Mr. Minister, you were in that government, which said that when they came to power, they would employ 200,000 inhabitants and that the global economic crisis was actually a chance for Serbia and that for Serbs through this global economic crisis they would make new jobs possible, but that did not happen. Also, it's good to open up a question and social justice here. It is mentioned that somewhere in the government of the Republic of Serbia, there are relatives who cost citizens of Serbia, taxpayers in gross amounts of about a million dinars. I don't want to believe it, I suppose you know these people, but if it's about social justice -- how is it possible that they receive so much money, and people or citizens of this Serbia, let's say the citizens of the Jablanic district have just 15,000 dinars of pay. I'd like to give you some information on the unemployment rate. So, in Jablanic County, where I come from, in 2008, the unemployment rate was about 32-33%, now around 45% of the unemployment rate. Unemployment is not a rhetorical issue but a state issue, a national issue, and one consensus should be adopted. If the state leads a smart policy and opens jobs where population migration comes from, these are the poorest parts of this Serbia, you will surely have support for the DSS. But I'm afraid we're a little late when it comes to these migrations that certain parts of Serbia and how they're empty, and because physics doesn't know about the empty space, and you know who's going to settle in that space, probably someone who's not wanted. So, what bothers us when it comes to the reasoning of this declaration, which is that this declaration, by passing this law, we are approaching harmonisation, EU legislation. I just deliberately said and apostrophe of a convention on these private agencies and employment, adopted in the EU, in only 18 countries. So seven countries have not adopted this, and we are approaching EU legislation. We also had the opportunity to discuss a convention on the maintenance of persons where, in the EU itself, the three countries did not adopt this convention, namely England, Denmark and Northern Ireland, and we are the first non-EU country to adopt the convention. That is why this condescending, certainly should not go that way, we do not need this serviality, but simply you know the DSS position, that Serbia should be politically neutral, to co-operate with all the countries, including EU countries, BRIKA countries, the United States, and some Arab countries that can contribute to the opening of new jobs here on Serbia's territory. So in this context, the government should think, turn to other markets. We as DSS have offered a program called – New Industrialization. I see that certain ministries are implementing certain legal provisions or provisions in that economic programme of ours, which is good and that we welcome. It was also good for your ministry to look at our economic programme and I hope that through this programme you will see how this country can employ a certain number of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12129	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12130	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, members of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, we've heard a lot from previous speakers about Conventions 181 and 150 and seeing the Conventions from different aspects, so I wouldn't repeat myself, I'd just like to say that we all know that our country is in transition processes that are not a bit light and simple. Only by looking at these processes can we catch a step towards an accelerated process of globalisation that is unstoppable. We know that there is no successful economic development without well-developed institutions of the system. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in its strategy for the development of the country, envisaged these institutional changes. The whole development strategy is actually aimed at adapting both the legislative and institutional framework, allowing the labour market to adapt to the new, modern system of industrial relations. The government has set itself a very important and priority task, which is economic development, which means, among other things, job creation. To achieve this, it is necessary to transform public employment services. It also includes regulation and supervision of private employment agencies. In many countries, intervention and employment services have dealt with state agencies such as our National Employment Agency. These employment agencies have a fundamental goal to deal with the mediation between unemployed persons, jobseekers and companies that need workers. Such agencies advertise new or vacant jobs on behalf of the employer and have their own candidate database and can provide relatively quickly needed workers. In many developed countries, there are both state employment agencies and more private companies that carry out the same activities as the employment agency. Just historically to remind ourselves, the first such agency was founded back in 1650 with the aim of connecting employers and workers. During the 20th century, each developed country formed a employment agency as a way to fight unemployment and help people find jobs. Otherwise, there should be a clear difference between finding a job and starting a career. The challenge is when to accept a job for mere existence, and you have certain references from a biography for a particular job supported by professional skills. There is room for employment agencies to be in play, they actually serve as intermediaries between workers and employers who need to employ such workers with the necessary skills and interests of workers. As far as these state agencies are concerned, they are some type of filter for large companies that often employ new workforce or extend existing capacities. The agencies have a sufficient number of employees who process a large number of applications unlike companies that have their own department of human resources. Private employment agencies take over services on the market, and those services that harmonize offers and employment requirements, employment services, temporary employment services, search, selection and counselling. Private employment agencies are looking for jobs both in private employers and in state institutions. To avoid further debt and to analyse these two conventions, ultimately, by adopting this agreement, we are harmonising our legislation from this important area with EU legislation. By applying this agreement, we will facilitate the mobility of our unemployed citizens in Europe's single market, so that the SNS will vote in the voting day for these two conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12131	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12132	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, on the agenda as many before me have spoken two conventions of international labour organisation. This is Convention number 181 which speaks of private employment agencies and agencies 150 that talk about labour administration. I would like to remind, first of all, all my colleagues in the Assembly, but also to inform the citizens of Serbia that one of these conventions is from June 1978, and one is the Convention of June 1997. In that context, it seems to me really, really inappropriate for us today to discuss who is being held hostage in the past six months or a year or at the end of five years. I believe that we should ratify today this convention to devote ourselves to what they are talking about and commit ourselves to our basic task, which is certainly a struggle for every job in Serbia. I personally like to participate in congregation polemics, I think some citizens may like to see it, but unfortunately, or fortunately, the Serbian assembly is not a reality show. We here have to work on very serious issues and deal with policy-making in areas that depend on the everyday lives of citizens. So I believe that we should find points that we can agree on, and I'm sure that when we talk about these conventions, we can all agree, that they bring something that is trendy, I can't say modern, I've told you from which age they are, but the tendencies that have long been present in many other countries and that Serbia has been trying to follow in recent years. When we talk about these tendencies, the key words must be flexibility, decentralisation, integration and partnership. I'll talk about all this later. Of course, like all my colleagues, I worry about the unacceptable number of unemployed people in Serbia today. For years it has been a problem number one in Serbia that is a problem that continues to produce poverty, which is related to the exclusion of many individuals or groups of our citizens from active life. It is a problem that produces the collapse of the entire society, the value system of society, and that has constantly brought us back to some beginnings. It is a problem that destroys the personal lives of people and our citizens, which has a significant impact on young people and their perspective for life in our country. This is problem number one, which requires one serious and creative approach in the possibility of solving the problem. Everyone knows that it is impossible to solve the problem of unemployment and increase employment unless you have good economic indicators, if there are no new jobs, new investments, unless companies are able to do quality business. So, the economy comes first. Of course, there are other problems associated with the high unemployment rate. It's a failure of the system to meet the needs of employers, it's a low level of education. I will remind you that 10% of a generation doesn't finish primary school in Serbia, I will remind you that 20% of the generation doesn't enroll in high school, 35% of a generation doesn't finish high school, and only 13% has a high or higher school. These are data that are very important when we talk about how to change the climate and how to increase employment in Serbia. What characterizes unemployment in Serbia, it is a very worrying fact, that nearly 50% of the unemployed are young people who need to look for perspective for their lives in this country. Of course, one of the problems and characteristics of our unemployment in Serbia are regional differences, and that is what the URS insist on as a possible solution to this problem. So 150 out of 165 cities and municipalities in Serbia, has zero growth and it is clear that people from these cities are leaving unconstitutional. In these cities, they can only keep jobs, new investments, new jobs, companies that are vital, productive jobs and, of course, all that comes with it, which is one quality life in these cities. I'm going to go back to what I was talking about at the beginning, which is that if we want to increase employment, we certainly need to be much more flexible. We need to be more flexible, first and foremost all of us and all of our citizens in their understanding of what employment is and we need to have a more flexible labour market. We must avoid the habit of being employed only by someone who is employed in the public sector, who is employed all his life, who has a completely secure salary for the next 30 years. It is no longer in the world, nor in Serbia. It must be done that every job is considered a job, a requalification, a prequalification, everything we call active employment measures, against passive application to work bureaus and waiting for work. We all say today, and today I have heard colleagues say, so many people in Serbia are waiting for work. That's the problem. We should say how many people in Serbia today are looking for a job. That is why it is very important for the state to be flexible and therefore speak of these conventions to delegate some of the jobs to other partners, in this case, NGOs, private employment agencies, trade unions, employers' associations, and these are all the elements of a system that should work together at all levels to allow employment in Serbia to be greater. Our Employment Act already recognizes private agencies, it defines them, they work in Serbia, less or more successfully in Europe, employs seven million people, and in Serbia there are a large number of young people, especially young people who find temporary, occasional jobs through these agencies, and they are very important. These agencies, under our law, can inform of possible jobs, intervene in employment in the country and abroad, can also work on professional orientation and counselling and apply all active employment measures in co-operation with the NSZ. Of course, the state reserves the right to grant permits to these agencies and to take care that they do not abuse the work of minors or in any other way deny the rights of those who are employed through them and, of course, those agencies cannot charge their services to those looking for a job. What is also important, it is decentralisation in the employment process, not only is the state recognized but also local authorities, all local partners, there are local employment plans, local councils that need in a specific way to recognise what it is that can lead to an increase in employment in their environment. Of course, as I said, integration and partnership, partnership at all levels, partnership of all political parties, partnership of all agencies in one serious joint work, to solve a problem that is not a problem for any party, which is not a problem for any isolated segment of our society, but is a problem that eats up the whole of our society. United regions of Serbia are committed to fighting each job. In my Leskovec in the last year, or two, thanks to new investments, about 2,000 people have been employed. It's 2,000 families that have a meal today and that's something we'll always and future support. That is why we will vote in favour of these conventions, with the hope that they will be incorporated into domestic legislation and that the application of this legislation will give real and concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12133	Messenger of the people Sinisha Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12134	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, dear Minister, today we have here practically before us two international conventions, namely the wish that our country respects some international frameworks and that we participate in international processes. It's not a dispute, and I'm sure no one in their right mind has anything to do with it. But I would look back here, first of all, what are the reasons for the law and some colleagues were talking about it? It is said that the Republic of Serbia is currently in the process of implementing policies and institutional changes foreseen by national development strategies. These strategies aim to adapt the institutional legislative framework to adapt the labour market to the new industrial relations system. In the second position, it says - economic development and job creation. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to reorganise institutions responsible for work and employment. Mr. Krkobic, you lead, I would say, the most responsible ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is work, employment and social policy and it may be the most difficult segment of our society and you are facing the greatest number of problems facing today by a large number of unemployed people in our country and potentially an even greater number that can be created, unless we are carefully and very carefully available with the resources that we have. We're a country that has some resources. We have agricultural land, we have some capacity to develop electricity production, and if our strategies are to sell these resources and thus safeguard some social peace at present, we will not be able to solve our accumulated social problems in the long run. That's why I think before we adopt these conventions, we don't need to reform institutions. We, I suppose, should bring legal frameworks under which certain institutions will operate and have rules of play, on which we will create conditions for people in this country to have the opportunity to work and thus generate and create a sufficient number of jobs. If the trend is as it is now and as we see the moves of this government, where foreign investors come with ideas to buy our national resources, above all agricultural land, I think we should all say that the world is not the same in 2000, 2005, and today 2013, that things have changed a lot compared to some of the times that were before, that this national resource of agricultural land cannot be the privilege of individuals, that it must be, in some ways, accessible to a larger number of people and that a redistribution must be made, in order for a greater number of people in that sector to be employed. If it's not clear to anyone here today that we don't have a problem in primary agricultural production, but that we lack the food industry, where we would generate a larger number of jobs, then it's one trend to continue some of the processes that we had in previous years, to run a completely irrational policy and devast one resource that we have. I think, simply, in all these things, we should approach with much more attention, with much more analysis, to determine what our comparative advantages are and how we can use these resources. Unless we're doing an analysis where we're going to build infrastructure based on some exact data, what kind of stuff exists on some localities, but we're building infrastructure based on some of our sympathies or some of our political influences. We come into a situation where we put something that's good in a sub-position, and maybe there's a job to generate, maybe you can generate a bigger profit and therefore run a responsible social policy. It just takes a lot more attention in all these laws. The consequences of the Privatisation Act, we are facing the consequences of the Privatisation Act today. By eliminating social property and turning into some other form of property, we have understood as turning social property into private property. Why didn't we understand the elimination of social property, like turning a piece into state property? Why can't the state be a good employer? Why does that flossula exist all the time, that the state is a bad employer? It just doesn't stand. You have good or bad resource management. Generally, one strategy that requires a much greater social, social responsibility, whatever you call it, is today in your hands. You are facing a huge problem today – work, employment and social policy, without having any tools in your hands, that you do not have any real mechanisms to influence. You have the Ministry of Finance and Economy. It's a conflict of interest, it's a conflict. He creates tax policy and stimulating measures for the same industry. So these are complete absurdities. If we want to really approach this problem, we need to do one analysis of what is behind us and admit some of the mistakes that have been made, give up and say – today the state has to participate much more in job creation processes, in making strategic decisions. Today, if we have two million hectares or I don't know, a million and 400 thousand acres of farmland in Vojvodina, today three owners with 100 tractors can plow, role models, hire 100 workers, sell these agricultural products. Is that a strategy for this society to move on? So, simply, this kind of social responsibility, it's over all of us who vote here for some of the laws that we're making. We're not just fulfilling the form of passing some law that someone suggested. Let's stop being the hostage of one model of liberal economy. We're not a society that's mature for that. I guess we've learned that lesson over the past 10 to 12 years. Don't let us teach her again. We're constantly hostage to some decisions that are completely insane. I just think that as a man who has a rich life experience, you can look at the social problems that we're moving in and stop these processes, in a way turn our direction in a completely different direction. This way, we're going to get into a situation where we're going to sell agricultural land, sell some potential for energy development tomorrow, buy some time for some social peace, and then we're going to get into a situation where we become a country, a type of South American country, where some, not to say, are managing such systems. I guess that's not our goal. I guess our goal is to have a country that is a country of equal odds, equal opportunities, that each individual has the opportunity to find a job here, to stay here to live and simply create good preconditions for generations to come. In Austria, the size of the property of the agricultural land is 30 hectares. It is a country of capitalist social order in the EU. We have individuals who have 40,000 hectares of agricultural land. Are we going that way? I don't care if he owns that 40,000 sheik, or if he owns one from here. For me, it is a question of whether these 40,000 hectares employ several thousand people or whether they employ 40 - 50 people. These are the questions we need to create some guidance on. That, are we going to adopt one convention that will fit into some international frameworks, that's not at all controversial, but what about sublaws? What about decisions that should be strategic and fundamental to this country? How do we make those decisions? So, I think that as someone responsible in this government, that's the subject you need to impose. You can't create some kind of decision-making dynamic here, which is in the function of some short-term stuff, that someone from the world will come here. Change the Agricultural Land Act. Our farmers or our farmers will build their own irrigation systems, it's not at all controversial. Give them the use of state agricultural land for 10 years and they'll build irrigation systems. They don't have a problem with that, but they have a problem for three years. Give them land for 10 years, they'll raise the farms. These are things that are very clear, but give someone who will come to raise some food capacity where they will be employed, fifty, sixty, one hundred people, twenty, it doesn't matter how many, but it has to be things that we have to discuss, and not now that someone is going to place the money here, and now he's going to make us some infrastructure projects that we started 20 or 30 years ago and we're not able to finish them. I simply urge you to do these things that you, your ministry, are the Deputy Prime Minister, have a key impact on these processes, work, employment, social policy. Today every job is some kind of patriotism. What about the enterprises that are in restructuring? Has anyone done an analysis? Did somewhere in state restructuring companies prove to be a good leader? What about small shareholders who have a mass of small shares with which they can't do anything today, where they're also in an invisible position, because some of their owners, customers, they've invested it in some banks, banks hold it, they want to deal with real estate trade? Real estate today is not something that has some interest in the market. How do we get out of this? How do we get banks to participate in those business plans they've funded? How do these business plans, for which they gave money, justify the jobs that were shown out there? So these are some questions that need to be raised. The convention as a convention, without the structure inside and without one serious analysis, will in itself be another document that we have brought, and it will not be life-sustaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12135	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12136	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, respected ministers, today's International Employment Organisation Convention on Private Employment Agencys, I must say what previous speakers have highlighted, this is one matter that our legislation has known since 2009, for which we have voted in this House. It's the Employment and Social Security Act. I would highlight one specificity that we have as a society, which is that we also support those people who lose their jobs for a certain period of time. On the other hand, I must also point out that this law already defines how it is done, under which conditions the establishment of the agency and what is part of the work of these agencies, but one of the purposes of this Convention is to enable the business of private employment agencies, as well as the protection of workers using their services, and I think it is one of the segments to be highlighted. I would also particularly like to highlight in this Convention Article 8 which says – when workers from one country are recruited to work in another country, the member concerned is considering the possibility of concluding bilateral agreements with a view to preventing abuse and against legal action. Also a member of the 9th that's already been mentioned here when it comes to child labor. I'm not saying that we as a state haven't done much about this issue and that we don't work every day, but I'm also going to take advantage of today's opportunity to appeal to all those who pay good attention to the services the agency is using, because we've been at some point previous witnesses that people, using the services of those agencies that haven't been properly checked, have even ended up being victims of human trafficking. Today there's a clear register and places where you can find registered agencies that can do this. Also, if I'm well-acquainted, one of the agencies is currently working in another country. There is an agreement between the two agencies, and the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and Employment is monitoring the process itself. That's exactly one of the segments of this convention and possibilities. What is certainly more interesting to me is the International Labour Organisation Convention on Labour Administration, where it is said that the labour administration system covers all public administrative bodies, ministries or public agencies, regional or local agencies, local self-government authorities or some other form of decentralised authority. This is something that I would attach special importance to, given that local self-government support programmes for the implementation of local employment action plans have been implemented in our country for many years. I would also remind myself that such a plan has a rural government and that it is a kind of decentralisation in terms of employment, because every local self-government and every region has its specificities, has its differences, but I also think it should be best to know that it offers solutions to the unemployment issue. Unemployment is not a single-level issue, one ministry or only one-sided. I think it's one process in which we all share the same responsibilities that we have to contribute. I think sometimes we forget the personal responsibility we all need to own, and so on. What is significant is that by 2020, and you will correct me if I am wrong, the National Employment Service should become only a view of the consulting service of local self-government, the employees. In this regard, I would like to commend the Ministry on the implementation of the tweening project, which talks about the preparation of the institutions of the labour market in the Republic of Serbia for the European Employment Strategy, and to highlight my personal satisfaction as president of the local council for the employment of the Municipality of Žitište, which functions as the advisory body of the president of the municipality, which we have recognized this year the will of the Government, and also recognised the responsibility that I was talking about, that we are fighting together in solving one of the democratic problems of all citizens. This project I was talking about is funded by IPA funds and implemented with partners from the EU. If I remember correctly, about 60 local councils have been sent. I should also like to emphasise that this project is being implemented in co-operation with France, Romania and Sweden and from the Republic of Serbia, the managers of the employment sector, national employment services, local employment councils, and representatives of the social partners and other stakeholders will be involved. This is certainly one of the parts of which this convention itself speaks through the creation of partnership relations between employers' associations and workers' associations, as well as the involvement of institutions in solving this problem. In addition, I have to say that this project will start in May, which means we have 24 months to finish this job, and it will encourage co-operation between institutions, labour markets and local social partners. What I would like to emphasise, and this has been observed perhaps in some previous period, local self-government still lacks sufficient capacity to analyse and monitor the implementation of local employment plans. For this reason, I particularly welcome this measure of the Ministry, because they have seen where this problem is when we want to decentralised employment and, of course, have warned all of this so that we have built this institutional capacity by 2020. I must mention Article 7 of this Convention which says that it advocates enlargement gradually through the phases if necessary, the function of the labour administration system, so that it covers the tasks to be carried out in cooperation with the competent bodies, and this applies to that segment which we do not have for now within the framework of the national service, which is categories of agricultural workers, for example, which should, by adopting this Convention, in the coming period, of course, if Serbia's legislation and the institutions themselves recognise it as important to introduce or only employees who do not hire external assistance or members of cooperatives and businesses. I think it's one of the good measures, because we're going to introduce those people who are invisible somewhere, who are working in the system itself, and maybe it's the introduction into legal flows and at least part-time work, not full-time, but the so-called "part-time job", maybe the control of the state within the gray zone, which I hope will lead to that. Something I would still like to praise, which I hope will be realized this year is the introduction of a central bond register. I think it's one good thing that goes in the context of how giving employers the ability to keep records of employees, and protecting workers that from month to month can be monitored by the very payment of contributions. Finally, I would say if this convention would lead to an enhanced dialogue between all the factors that should be fought in terms of increasing employment and if we are all going to do this without politics together then there is no reason not to personally support these two conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12137	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12138	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, knees and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention number 181 on private employment agencies. The Democratic Party will vote for this convention. What I had here was controversial, and I expected a bill on private employment agencies or at least a draft proposal. I think it would fit in with each other, because this is a very important problem in our country. The International Labour Organisation General Conference in Geneva adopted this convention on 19 June 1997. Experts believe Serbia will take the top place in Europe by the number of unemployed. We've heard there are currently 760,000 unemployed. This information is not certain because it is only about persons who have applied to the National Employment Service, in order to achieve health care, social assistance or other services. The exact number of registered and unregistered private employment agencies is unknown. I came up with some data on the number of employment agencies in some cities in Serbia. There are 56 agencies in Belgrade, in Jagodina three, in Kragujevac seven, in Kraljevec three, in Kraševec three, in Nis three, in Novi Sad 21, in Užica three. There is no precise legislative regulation on the activities of these agencies, and there are agencies that have several types of work, so their employment is one of the activities. So in Belgrade, there is an Agency for Marriage Intermediation, and it also deals with the problem of employment. The subject of unemployment is always related to the work of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. These are related topics and simply, I expected a greater contribution to the latest budget of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately it did not come. I will remind you that there are 90,000 private companies in Serbia. It's got a micro 86% tops, the small ones are 11, middle three, and the big ones are only 0.6%. There's about a million and 50,000 employees. When compared to 760,000 unemployed, it is a serious problem facing the state of Serbia. In all respects of your commitment to such a sensitive subject that I would praise, there is a solution to obtaining these resources that are necessary for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, very important, because as many of them as there are if each of them hired four, five, we would have a smaller percentage of unemployment. One of the solutions is the pre-election promise of some parties to abolish state agencies in Serbia, with 130 of them, which makes Serbia a record player in Europe. There is a Chemicals Agency, for example, which charges a fee to register a shampoo that is 10,000 euros a year. In a country like us and there are paradoxes on all sides, the topic of employment is one of the key and I am simply surprised that there is little presence of the ruling coalition MPs except from your party who would be committed to this topic. What's good about this convention, why should it be supported? In Article 1 The Convention shall specify the term of a private employment agency and shall define the services provided by this Agency precisely. The categories of workers shall be specified in Article 2. Article 5 prohibits any kind of discrimination. Article 6 defines respect for workers' personal data. Article 7 defines the exact costs. Article 9 defines a ban on child labour, and Article 11 provides for appropriate protection, freedom of association, collective bargaining, minimum earnings, working time and other working conditions, social protection, training of safety at work, compensation for labour injuries and occupational diseases, compensation for bankruptcy, protection of the search for workers and parental allowances. I will return to another institution important in the state of Serbia, and this is the problem. It's about the Solidarity Fund. It is an institution that has helped 50,000 workers in Serbia. They were paid nine months' wages and nine months' pension and social security. I don't think there's enough resources in the past budget for any such institution, which is also important for the state of Serbia. Probably that number of workers who went through this compensation would have been much higher, or doubled. I don't think there's enough resources in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia either. As far as private entrepreneurs are concerned, conditions are difficult for them. When you talk to them today, it's hard to think about employment. They think more about the survival of their firms. Most of the time, it's about large debts, high duties and a small possibility of obtaining credit. In order for someone to obtain a production credit or any other activity, he must meet very difficult conditions. One of the conditions is that he has a good credit rating, which means he's got a lot of traffic, which is a lot bigger than the credit he's looking for. Another of the conditions is that he has a mortgage that is anywhere even double or triple the amount of credit he's looking for. Whoever has that money doesn't need any subsidies or loans from the state. I think it's time for social dialogue in a society as poor as we are, a time to sober up and a time to pass quality laws that will improve employment. Preventing the abuse of such agencies, you remember cases from the past, where ads have been made to work on oil platforms in the oceans, to work in agricultural production abroad. There's a lot of people who are damaged and should be responsible for it. Once again, I repeat that the DS will support these conventions and every intention you make to improve a more recent legislative proposal such as this one area that is very important to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12139	The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12140	Thank you. At the very beginning, I would like to say a few words about the same legal proposal as my predecessor, the Private Employment Agency Convention. There are a large number of problems in this area, and I believe that this convention will not solve them, unlike its LDP colleague, who spoke at the very beginning of today's debate. The Convention cannot provide all answers to questions raised about this area. First of all, it should be said that the ambience in our country is not favourable enough and clear enough, especially in this area that is governed by private employment agencies. The Employment Act also lists not only private employment agencies, but employment agencies that can establish legal persons and natural persons. This law, in just a few members, sets out very general conditions for you to establish such an agency, and it is enough for only one person to establish such an agency that has a college and is not sentenced with a sentence of more than six months in prison unconditionally. That's what we have today from the provisions. That's what we have from legal regulations. The International Labour Organization is a serious institution, and it's good to be in line and able to communicate with them. What scares me is what their concrete answer will be when they see that we've adopted the declaration, but that we're going to have very big problems meeting those obligations we've taken with it. I think that today we have a large number of agencies that have codes of activity, except for the marital possession, which my predecessor mentioned, have, of course, properties and many other things. You minors can enter a employment agency and solve all life's problems and find a marriage partner and find a job and solve real estate. It's something that is definitely bullshit and it's something that is the fact that in Serbia people are fighting for a place under the sun and looking for ways to make money. This area isn't arranged, and that's where we'll definitely agree. There are a large number of Internet portals – best to work, as easily as possible to work, as quickly as possible. It all lost its meaning today because we are aware that the economy is in crisis. This was one summer 2007, 2008, and even in 2009, serious companies opened internet portals, but they were not based on this employment law, and it describes the Employment Agency in Article 20 in more detail. We're talking about the Employment Act. So we have a big problem with the fact that many institutional and many essential conditions have not been met and I believe that the International Labour Organization will have a lot of problems later on to meet certain basics. The fact is that many countries haven't even adopted it, that this is a good thing that we're going to have a chance to reconcile many things. I think we need to speed up the change of laws in this area. I appeal to you and your ministry, take advantage of your authority. There's been a lot of talk here today about some political stuff. Often hiring as a topic awakens some kind of political competitiveness here in this room. This policy has also been about how much money can be made available, and the fact is that today's story doesn't talk about whether we're going to create good preconditions through some kind of funding that isn't available today. Today we're just talking about some kind of legal precondition. One of them is a convention, but I say once again, a large number of other problems that exist in this area have not been regulated before. Then, it should be said that a large number of agencies have been shut down in the last period since 2009, 2010, 2011. Whoever tried to do it seriously, whoever tried to work honestly, and even, of course, those who didn't want to do it exactly by the book, and failed to cope with this crisis, I say once again, have been shut down. The fact is that only those who bend over and find different ways to make out who knows what contracts, whether with state-owned enterprises, today we talked about who is the most desirable employer, unfortunately, here, on behalf of young people I can say is currently the most desirable employer of the state. That's not what we fought for. The safest employer, unfortunately, is still a state. That's not what needs to be the goal, because that way we won't encourage employment. The fact is that private agencies are obviously looking for their partner in the country, too, because there are obviously the best billability and the best jobs. They're very often suspicious. What is common to everything I've said is that there are only a few members of the law on employment agencies and that there are a large number of agencies in crisis or that some have managed to cope with marital mediation, but even in business escorts or other matters. It's something that's a problem, and we call it surveillance. There's no adequate surveillance anywhere. We've heard here today's initiatives that labour inspection strengthens its supervision in these institutions, or in these companies, but that's something that obviously doesn't work. That's what we wanted to draw attention to. We believe that employment will be a long-term problem in our economy, and we think that the way the government is currently acting towards the economy is something that is definitely more demotive to set up an agency. Imagine now, someone's finished college, there's a place where you'd like to open a place, because these are the only two conditions to open up an employment agency, you can find yourself in a situation that you can actually very hard to provide for your agency's purpose, since the economy isn't following it. The way employment will be encouraged, there are many, and politics talks about it every day in this room and elsewhere. One of them is the uncompromising fight against corruption. That's a lot to talk about. Unfortunately, we will most likely lose this prefix "no" and we will remain with - a compromise fight against corruption. Clicking will enable employment space and how much market for private employment agencies will open, we will see. Many other indicators are that if you increase VAT, you are obliged to say what it is that will balance, and one of them is the most common assumption that you will reduce income tax. It may also open the market for employment agencies. Private employment agencies are a good thing and DS wants to vote for this convention, but many things are under question, among other things, in the jurisdiction of your ministry. Many others are in the power of the government where you are vice president, and I appeal to the opposition to some of the things that we mentioned today as a parliamentary club, but also to all these days when you were not present to put them on the agenda as soon as possible, perhaps by an urgent procedure and you will get support probably from the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12141	Thank you. Next up is Ljuban Panic, who is not here. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12142	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here at the end of this government's term, just before its fall, we are finally discussing the most important issue in this country, the problem of employment. The tragedy is that today, when we talk about the most important topic for Serbian citizens, there is no Prime Minister here, there is no Deputy Prime Minister here. They are skating on banana bark, and they have sent Mr. Krkobic, whom we very much respect and respect, to discuss a very important topic with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12143	Mr. Milivoevich, I remind you it is an obligation to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. We have a minister before us who is in charge and has no obligation to have neither the Prime Minister nor anyone else here. I remind you, we must respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12144	I didn't understand you, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12145	I'll tell you again, and I'll give you your time back. So, please respect the dignity of this home. Since there is a minister before us who is in charge of a portfolio that is on the agenda today, we respect the Rules of Procedure and there is no need for either the Prime Minister or anyone else from the government to be there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12146	Mrs. Kovac, in a country where the largest number of unemployed are in Europe, when it comes to employment, there should be at least half of the government, not the president and vice president. This speaks of how much one government takes care of the most important problems in this country. If by any chance we had obtained candidate status, we would have carpenters here to add ranks here, to sit down those who are interested in taking privileges and honors for that. But to get back to this part of the agenda. We are here by the willless government, by the unwilling majority, but by the fact that we sign two conventions and agree and adopt two conventions proposed by the International Labour Organisation, we are first in a position to talk a little bit about employment in Serbia. I again underline, the most numerous parliamentary group of the ruling majority, here are our co-workers and colleagues from the PUPS party. This speaks of the interest of other parties in the ruling majority to address the unemployment problem. When we talk about this very important problem at all, I will first say that the International Labour Organisation is a specialised UN agency, which promotes social justice and fights for certain internationally recognised workers' rights, as well as internationally recognised human rights, and that it was founded in 1919 by the provisions of the Versai Peace Agreement and was later the first agency founded by the UN in 1946. We are experiencing circumstances, now thanks to the existence and membership of the organisation, in an opportunity to discuss the biggest problem that has plagued citizens of Serbia, which is the problem of unemployment, ways to solve this problem, but also some segments that allow these conventions here to solve certain problems, when it comes to exploiting children and some other very unpleasant things that follow working practice in Serbia. I come from a region that has the highest number of unemployed. I come from central Serbia, from Kruševec. I come from the region, the valley of West Morava, where there are Čačak, Kraljevo, Vranjačka Banja, Kruševac, Trstenik. It is indeed the region that has the largest number of unemployed in Serbia right now. I underline, Serbia is first in Europe for unemployment. I expected this government to hold at least a special session of the Assembly, with the topic of resolving the problem of unemployment. Can the government of the parties who left Serbia economically and in every other sense, during their first term of office do so? Of course he can't. Could the government that made up those political parties that were devastated and destroyed the Serbian economy during the 1990s, which by sanctions, which by bombing to solve the problem of those factories that then destroyed? I certainly do not trust this government, nor do I see the capacity to solve these problems, nor do I see the possibility. As DS, we will support the vote of both this Convention and this number 181 and this second issue of 150 regarding the administration in the field of work, because we believe this is very important for our EU accession, because we also know that the ruling majority knows that the border crossings leading to the EU are neither Carlobag nor Ogulin nor Karlovac nor Virovitica. We know that now they too have seen it and that they realize that Serbia must be in the UN, and they realize that Serbia must ratify such conventions. What are you nervous about? Would you give me a warning? Well, here's my advice. When you are chairman of these congregations, you may be able to do so. (President: Since I am the chairman of this assembly, please return to the topic and please do not address the MPs directly. ) And I ask you to ask your colleagues not to earn, because it really isn't right, to take out these blank cards, which are also fighting for Europe, and to listen carefully, because they can learn a lot. They listened carefully in the last meeting and you see how they learned that Europe is an alternative for Serbia, not Carlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac and Virovitica. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you don't have the capacity to solve these problems. Mr. Krkobic, I ask you to influence your fellow ministers, the Prime Minister, on the Deputy Prime Minister, to let the affair go, to come to this hall, to put out a little strategy on how they think to start Serbia, to solve the problem of unemployment. The problem of unemployment will not solve these conventions or their adoption, to try to look a little bit at the real world in Serbia. They're strikein' cops in Chačka today, that's not what happened to you, and they're strikein' hunger. The workers of the Rubin Hotel in Krusevec strike and also strike hunger. It would take a little bit to deal with these specific problems. They will not feed on stories and ordered texts in party newspapers and tabloids, nor will they feed on these ordered economic analyses that promise a very barbery year 2013, nor will they feed on bananas, but must have specific conditions to solve their existential problems. It's a government job, it's not our job from the opposition to teach you. Finally, I must tell you that I really expect you to pass the following laws that will allow these conventions to be implemented, because this is not possible now. It's been left for 12 months. You have much shorter use since the government is clinically dead and it cannot be brought back to life by analysts or tabloids or party votes. It's only a matter of days before they shut you down. I'm here to prevent you from being shocked when it happens to you. I'm trying to have a positive impact on your health. At the end of your term, I ask you to take a little care of the unemployed, not to lead the fight with demagogy, and to try to feed the hungry with one banana, not to try at the end of your term and to push the problems under the carpet, but to invite your ministers here a little while, and to discuss this very important life problem together. I don't expect any special strategy from you, because again for those who earn -- you know, a man can be smart and valuable, and it's good when a man like that runs a country. A man can be smart and lazy, so, you know, it's still a big handicap – he can, but he won't. If you think it's the worst combination when he doesn't know, and he doesn't know it's lazy, he's not. The worst combination is when a man does not know what he wills, so he strives, so he imposes ignorance as a supreme knowledge and a supreme effort. He does not know, so he will, so he does not know, so he strives and then destroys not only himself, but the whole state. In the end, once again, the DS will vote for this. This will also allow Serbia's European progress, will make it possible to improve for the country. This will also help the opposition to this established government, and it is up to you to come before this home in the coming days and bring one strategy to the start of the economy, but not by bringing in two or three investors, so that they bring the first 100 million out of 100 billion foreign investment promised, but to actually see serious investments, not the type of Danube-Stalic-Solun channel, because it is not feasible. I'll give you the biggest shovel to dig, since you're so loud and you're the most imaginative here. You will certainly, at least dig the left side of that channel, so agile and valuable. But there's a right-hand side, so I recommend that you have a little bit of this mandate, probably the citizens will give you one 10 terms of 30 days each, so we'll see what happens at the end of your term. I am waiting for the employment strategy and I expect the citizens of Serbia to see how you will solve their existential problems, because you promised it in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12147	The word has Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Babic, Mr. Marian Risticevic called about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12148	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have already advertised these articles 106 and 107. The speaker didn't stick to the subject, and he pretended that someone was throwing it at him, and he spoke a little offensively, and he also brought up the fact that some cards were standing here, which don't stand at all. So he said more lies, and I think he even tried to speak directly to me. I think he just tried. He mentioned all kinds of bananas here. Speaking of bananas, let me ask him - and what was your first president having lunch with that same man? You mentioned bananas. You would have mentioned or stood in front of a mirror and held a banana, so you could see what your first president had for lunch? Why didn't he eat bananas? Why didn't he eat bananas so old? What was eating fish, could a bone fit in his throat, so there could be anything and everything? Don't pass it on to us and don't even try. What I'm going to dig for, I'm proud of my farming. I'm not proud of it like these. You're proud of the information that you poisoned me. I don't know how many citizens of Krushevac. That information and that fact qualified you... (President: Please, Mr. Risticevic, let us stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm proud of my farming, and if I have to dig a canal, I'll dig it up for this country, but for you, I won't do anything for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12149	The word is Mr. Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12150	I'm advertising Article 104. And I don't know by what right you gave Mr. Rističević the opportunity to insult the MPs? He wasn't talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and I took his exposure as a replica and as an attempt to insult the DS. I understand his handicap, it is not easy to live in India and pass every day past the industrial zone made by Goran Jesic. That leaves certain consequences. That's where you could show your shoveling skills, but there are some more serious machines... (President: Please, Mr Milivojevic, you have just referred to me that I have injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which I have allowed Mr. Rističević to replicate. Well, don't rephrase either, please. Here you go. )......................................................................................................... So, I think he's a injured member of 104. The Rules of Procedure, because I really took this as a replica of a disabled gentleman, but in response to my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12151	Please, Mr. Millyvoy, don't insult the MPs. Now you have truly spoken an insult to the People's Messenger. I did not injure Article 104, given that I did not give Mr. Risticevic the right to the replica, but he received a word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, one suggestion to a young colleague when he said that the uncompromising fight against organised crime and corruption would be left without this prefix "no", that the next time he utters such a thing, when he says something like that, he must say where this compromise was made, not that he is making any conclusions and assessments. Double arches in politics are very dangerous. It is very dangerous when the previous government of the Republic of Serbia with 12% inherited achieved up to 25%, nearly 26%, and said – we are not responsible, the global economic crisis is responsible, and now that this government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to fight, to stop as we have stopped the growth of the deficit, so we reduce it in 2013, they say – there is no global economic crisis, there is nothing, it is guilty and responsible government of the Republic of Serbia. I appreciate anyone who promotes their end in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's the way it's supposed to be. Mr Milivojevic and I mention him, not to challenge him to a replica, but because he really mentions his end in every address, mentions the Kruševac in the best light, and that's good and we should all do it. However, the "Merima" that is synonym for Kruševac is 1,200 employees of the shrubs, during previous governments in which DS has strongly participated as the largest partner, to three hundred employees, minors at the Henkel warehouse. What do we do with that? Who's responsible for this? What is good news for the citizens of Kruševec, not only for the citizens of Kruševac, but for the citizens of Krašvec and Trstenik and Vrnjačka Banja and Cačak, is that this government of the Republic of Serbia, which has concluded this contract for the construction of the Moravian Corridor, will begin in May with the construction of the Moravian Corridor, so that both Mr Milivojevic and I, when I go to my old neighborhood, will be able to be much safer and much safer to reach our end and come.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12153	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12154	Just a brief note when it comes to the business of the town of Kruševec, so when it comes to the factory "Merima-Henkel". I can't get a German employer to keep 1,200 workers in a factory where 300-400 workers should work. They moved part of the production to that particular Indji I was talking about. I'll remind you, who criticises me, that October 14th had exports of several hundred million marks and dollars at the time when you took over last time, even when you had Vienna. You know, then they reduced their production to a few tens of thousands of euros and paid the demarcation. It's also the facts for which someone is responsible and guilty. I highly appreciate your involvement in the construction of the Western-moral highway. It is a project promoted by DS and Boris Tadic in the election campaign and we, as MPs, Mr Miodrag Djidic, as state secretary. That's what our other friends from our neighborhood do now. I think it's the job of all of us MPs, because at the end of our term, we're not going to load that highway on our backs and take it away, we're going to stay on the service of the citizens of this country. I will never say it. We do it, neither do you. We do it the moment we open our wallet, so we pay for those works from our wallet, or we go to the shovels, and we're going to bury the gravel, because maybe it's better for us than some other stuff. I'm undermining again, don't go so far into the past, because if we get away from today's topic, just 12 years, and go back to that in 1999, we're going to open up a lot of unpleasant sites, and this debate is going to take a long time. On the other hand, if we're talking about the perspective of our end, I'd like Mr. Babic to have you, as president of the parliamentary group... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Initiating a meeting of all MPs, I end immediately, from the western-moral region, so that we can hold joint meetings of the Kruševec Assembly and... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12155	The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12156	I'd like to thank you for getting the right to the replica, given that my SNS colleague mentioned me as a young gentleman, but unlike him, I have a basis, and he absolutely doesn't. I don't know why he got the basis for the replica. Maybe he recognized himself in this area when I mentioned crime. I don't know what part of you was associated with you personally and your MP group, considering I didn't mention the SNS. So the fact is that it's a long list of names of different people that confirm what he said, and that's that this story is compromiseable. It's something I'll leave behind in the days to come. Citizens already slowly understand what happened to Mr. Beck. The governor says he won't be convicted, but his associates, he knows what he's doing unlike anyone else. Then there were mentions of many other names, of course the prime minister and all these people from his surroundings. That's when your coalition partners mentioned the DSS, so they apologized. Apparently many announcements in "Kurr" and in many other things have been instructed and many things talk about making an atmosphere about how to fight corruption, and then you scare and threaten who you arrive at. It's something that takes a lot longer than I have based on replication. There'll be plenty of time to explain how compromised it is. I say again that you had no basis for replication. I don't know what part you've identified yourself in, but after all, I'm glad I had the chance to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12157	Mr. Obradovic, you are probably tired, but after you spoke Mr. Milivojevic and Mr. Milivojevic mentioned the SNS, which is why Mr. Babic was given the right to reply. You need to follow closely what happens at the session. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12158	And the sparrows on the border know that SNS and Mr. Alexander Vukic is a synonym for fighting organised crime and corruption in Serbia, and if you don't think so, and whoever doesn't think so, you can go out to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and say something like that and resent it. I think that would be countermanded by the statements of the president of the DS who has made such an open confession. On the other hand, I'm going to have to correct Mr. Milivojevic, it's not a Moravian highway, it's a Moravian corridor, and it's a full profile of the highway, not of the magistrate, in two directions of three August tapes. It's not about the magistrate. However, what I can also agree with you is that in previous furniture and in the previous government, much more has been done to promote the work. There's been a lot of promotion. It was promoted and, as the previous president of the state said, the engine vey instead of the Ibar highway, so there was nothing left of the branch engine. Two badgers, three days later, three days later, these badgers disappeared. There's a difference. One is the promotion, one is the media, one is the tiny political points that are obtained in this way, and the other is the concreteization, and the fact that "no" remains, as a synonym, we have shown by many who have been processed. The SNS didn't process them. System institutions, the system must strengthen, everyone in Serbia has to do his job, not us. Here we have to work on the laws, that these legal solutions be the product of our controversy and be quality, and those who are paid for it, investigative, judicial authorities, totally operated on by politics, have to do these jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12159	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12160	There you are, Mr. Granny, contradictory. In fact, we agree that it is the system that we must build, that the system implements the fight against corruption and crime under the law. At the same time, you're saying that the personification is Alexander Vukitch. It's already, I'm afraid, idolatry. Don't be mad. Every single person, however he does his job, can't be above the law, the state, and we can't change one name and name to lose the most normal civilizational attitude against crime and corruption. Do not make people in this congregation swear before someone else's bust and say that if you mention that struggle to think of a particular name and name. That man you're talking about wouldn't like what you're saying. You can't approach this so selectively. Imagine, when DS comes very quickly to the situation to state what is not fulfilled, and what is announced, it is a sword with two blades on which we have already cut ourselves, as you yourself have said. Every time I ask you to look at the newspaper inscriptions in the last two months, there are already more than 40% of what has been notoriously announced, and it hasn't happened yet. You're still a long way from being realized. Take your time, Mr. Granny. Let the courts finish at least one of those cases. It's not right to talk about motorway. Imagine when we take out your motorcycles, from the theft in the election to the thousands of things you've brought out. I don't think that's a good idea, and why don't you deal with what's going on? By the way, I agree we should get back on the subject, but... (President: Please, Mr Stefanovic, we should respect dignity. So don't mention any theft. Let me tell you something, first, the fact that it would be facts should prove themselves, so don't say it in the National Assembly, please. I agree. I was just quoting the president of the state and the first vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12161	Thank you. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's obviously a change of thesis here. I hear rhetoric 13 years ago. That time has passed. In 2000, some other political option came to power and showed what she knows and can do. There are many speakers who spoke before me who were right -- we who are in power now need to learn something, and we teach from you how not to work, according to the people: "Smart learns from other people's mistakes and someone else on their own." So we're not ready to repeat the same mistakes you've made and don't mention how we're going to hire people anymore. We can't hire in six months what's been ruined in six years. It's a lot harder to fix than to destroy, so it doesn't take a lot of sense to bring something down and ruin it. Praise the Indji. Come to my fireman. Come to the Fireman to see what he's doing there. Half a Bambi, that's all. That's where you brought the state. Don't mention how successful or unsuccessful someone is. I agree that institutions should fight organised crime and corruption. That's exactly what that same Alexander Vukic said more than once as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. He's not in charge of waging his own personal war, nor is he doing it, that's what state authorities do. But the problem is, we haven't had state authorities in the fullest of our time. That's why you lost power. Why were our investors leaving for the last three or four years? Because they became... (Chairman: Time! )......................................................................................................... 10%. Why aren't licenses issued? Why are there silences from the administration? It all existed during that period when you were in power and before that you closed your eyes and let it go. I don't blame or suspect any of you individually, but by your inaction, you led the system to fail, to collapse, and the citizens suffered the most. It's those 200,000 jobs we've lost in the last three or four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12163	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12164	Now Mr. Veroljub Arsic has said what we all really agree on. Investigations and anything related to the fight against crime and corruption need to be done by the system's institutions. I don't think anyone in this room can say anything wrong. However, what Mr. Arsic also said earlier, and what has happened so far? So far, Serbia has had courts, investigative judges and police officers. We didn't replace anyone. We didn't bring ours, we changed theirs. We haven't changed anyone. These are all people who have been placed in the previous four, five or six years, but it took someone to show up, and that someone has a name and a last name and is called Alexander Vukic, who took the chains off the hands of those people who need to put chains on the hands of those who have dealt with crime and corruption. That's why we say uncompromising struggle, because no matter what name it comes to, no matter what the price of it all is, whether these chairs or any of the ministerial chairs, the uncompromising fight against crime and corruption will continue. Serbia is a good field, but full of weeds. I agree, Mr. Stefanovic, we're just at the beginning and there's a lot of work ahead of us. We don't sleep on laurels. We didn't say - great, here, we grew up, here, we're done. No, it's not true. We've got a lot of work to do, and we're aware of that. There are many challenges, but we're willing at any cost, and may that price be power, because we're not born in power, but this good field of ours to sow must be cleaned from the weeds. I'm sure anyone who has Serbia at his heart will accept and support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12165	Thank you. I'm asking the MPs, we've gotten very far from the subject, to try to get back on the subject. The word is Mr. Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12166	Madam Chairman, last time I was mentioned by name and last name, so it's been a little longer, but the pure truth works - it's not nice to talk about current coalition partners that they've only done marketing actions. Repeatedly because you did not understand and hear – it is not nice to talk about the current coalition partners that they were just doing marketing actions. I know it's a highway for the Krushevac. Just to inform you – the town of Kruševac, in which the DS has played a decisive role in the management of that city over the past two years, is the only city that has done the expropriation of land for the construction of the highway and the current government, run by the SNS, has made the job of building the highway quite easier. Don't learn too much from your mistakes, it's not good, it's not good at yours or anyone else's, you learn from colleges. Where you learn, don't buy your diplomas, but nice if you have to graduate, finish college. It's best to learn in college, believe me. When you talk about Serbia being a good field full of weeds, don't water the weeds. Let's build institutions together. Institutions are not built by being both Deputy Prime Minister and Minister and spokesman for the Special Prosecutor's Office, it is not good to build a cult of personalities. We had a murder in the Hall of Parliament. We don't need a new cult personality. All together to build institutions, all together to help all the people who do this job, and there you will always have co-operation and assistance from the DS. We won't be your opposition. We'll help you here. We built institutions. Here's the perfect day to show how institutions are built, there's going to be one very interesting point, and that's where we're going to show our relationship to institutions. I would like to finish this round of replicas on my part, primarily by respecting Mr. Krkobic, who is here all day, and we can lead these discussions in the coming days, so I will not continue to participate in the replicas. It's seven o'clock and you should have respect for the people who came here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12167	Thank you. The word is Mr. Risticevic, after his injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12168	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 104, which is the right to replication. It is the discretionary right of the chairman to determine who has the right to reply, but in the previous two positions it is prescribed when one MP has the right to reply. I don't know on what business basis my predecessor was entitled to that replica. As far as I know, no one mentioned him. As far as I know, he's not an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. As far as I know, he's not even the head of the parliamentary group. I repeat, I have no objection to favoring the opposition, but it should have some measure. He has repeatedly alluded in my direction by mentioning India, not knowing that Goran Jesic is not the creator of the industrial zone, but me. He knows that very well. He knows very well which company was built there.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12169	Mr. Risticevic, I really can't let you rephrase that I wouldn't break the Rules of Procedure, and we have to keep working, so I'm asking you to respect...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12170	Wait a minute. So, no matter what he was alluding in my direction, no matter what he was telling the truth, I didn't ask for a line because I thought he'd break this attitude 104 and you let him act here a few times like he was running this session, and he was insultingly expressing himself as much as he wanted and he didn't get any notice. I'm not a fan of these warnings, but I'm asking you to catch some balance in the future not to disprove the opposition, but also not to put us in a position to defend ourselves against their mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12171	Thank you. I believe I did not violate Article 104, given that I gave my word to Mr Milivojevic, because one of the previous speakers called for his presentation. Do you want to vote on a voter's day to plead? (No) Thank you. Mr. Shane, on what grounds are you answering? The word is Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12172	I'm reporting for article 107 because I think the dignity of the Assembly has been violated, and I'm also reporting from the fact that the coalition partners of the SNS have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12173	You have no right to replicate when you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's what I've said more than once.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12174	I just want to talk about the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna give this up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12175	You can only talk about the Rules of Procedure, since I broke up with Mr. Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12176	I'm gonna give up on this other one. I just want to point out that I want to be constructive. Why do I think the Rules of Procedure got hurt? It is unacceptable for someone to talk about stealing and to say that they stole from the election without mentioning who shared the election campaign on the day of the election one shoe, and three days after the election the second shoe, and that it says that it was someone who was in the coalition with the SNS in the election. It wasn't these voices that went to this election list, it was some other people's election list.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12177	Mr. Shane, I asked nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12178	Here's the last sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12179	I can't give you my word because we've gone too far and I think this is causing further comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12180	I'm saying that's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12181	I agree with you, but we'll do it some other time. The word is Mr. Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, it is true that the expropriation of land in the territory of the town of Kruševec is a much easier beginning of these works. I agree, because it would be a lie to say anything else. However, as far as the motorway is concerned and the promotion of motorways from the Ibar highway, it cannot agree against what is said in the cameras of all possible electronic media in Serbia, which was only done by the former president of the state, former DS President Boris Tadic, aiming towards the League, speaking of some terms which, of course, have never been met. The expertise is also discussed by the next fact I can never forget, that in the tour of the Belgrade roadside, the hardness of asphalt was being examined with hands. If a colleague alluded to my university, I graduated from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Engineering in 1996, within a time limit, with a good average. I'm proud of it, and I'll never allow myself or my associates to question the hardness of the asphalt astoundingly or manually.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12183	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12184	Okay, we really went too far. I'll just have a quick answer and ask the MPs to come back on the subject. If you were referring to motorway, asphalt, perhaps you were referring to Minister Mrkonjic, I presume. But even so, and not Mr. Babic, we now have a minister for the left side of the road and a minister for the right side of the road and they'll fix it in no time, I'm sure. However, I wanted to ask you something else. Since we've talked about it, and we've gotten very far from the topic, we've talked about fighting corruption and crime. So, please, I think it's smarter for you and others to stop talking about how bad it was, because citizens already don't believe what you're talking about because the situation in Serbia is very economically bad. This is the fifth time I've asked you, if you think you're going in front of the citizens of Serbia, go ahead, you'll make our job easier. If you think they'll be happy, they'll get a job and bread, a story about your store where a nice window is set up, called Alexander Vukic, and inside you dust and spiders. In that store of yours, gentlemen, there's nothing but windows and citizens know that, because there's no job. You can talk as much as you want - these were worse than us. You're not in the campaign anymore, the election's over. People are waiting for answers. Do not answer every question of ours. You have done worse. Those citizens of Serbia are no longer interested. They want to know what you're going to do now. Unfortunately, you represent, not personally, the government announcements, the government that announces and does not implement anything. That's the government's problem. No economic policy, no business, no announcements, no announcements. The results are very thin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12185	Mr. Arsic, you'll get a line. This concludes the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12186	Thank you. I'm sure I won't answer any more. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again I claim that there was a replacement of thesis here, something else is being told again, which does not correspond to the truth. We didn't promise a good life in the election campaign. We only promised a righteous society. Those who promised a better life, a better life, 200,000 new jobs, lifted 200,000 jobs. That's why they lost the election. Anyone who understands a little bit in the country, who understands a little bit in the economy, knows that neither the state nor the economy can function while society is burdened by corruption. That is why Serbia, as a state, was, until the formation of the government, in an extremely, extremely low place in attracting foreign investment. So to get someone to open new jobs for us, we need to fix the system, system institutions first. Look, the National Assembly is an institution, look at the rules of procedure as they changed while you were in power. This Rules of Procedure, which we now use, which was written by the former president of the DS Assembly, and then the minister, and then only Nenad Konstantinovic just worked it out a little bit and released it into the procedure, we are talking about Oliver Dulic, you have brought the MP down two minutes after the amendment. What happened to the institutions? Is the president of the state an institution? What was only belonging to the DS former president? What couldn't be my president? Because he was president of the DS. It's the collapse of the system's institution. The same was true in the judiciary, the same was in the prosecution, the same was in local self-government. (President: Time. ) In order to start living better, the first institutions of the system have to take over their original function, we are working on it. Believe me, it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12187	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask - whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12188	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government with fellow Members, the honourable Members of Parliament, I intend to, on behalf of the PUPS Parliamentary Group, say...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12189	Mr. Cholakovic, excuse me, please, just a minute. Since you are not an authorised representative, I asked nicely which of the authorised representatives or president of the parliamentary groups wants a word, you have no right, indeed, to say the word. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12190	Authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12191	We didn't get notice that you were an authorized representative. No one's authorized representative for this point. I really can't give you my word. Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? (No) Does Minister Krkobic want a word? (Yes) Just sign in, please. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12192	Gentlemen of the Presidency, Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for attending today's debate, thank you for today's cooperation. If we ignore that part of the debate that had nothing to do with the topic that was on the agenda today, that I could, without any false modesty, say that this debate was extremely useful and fruitful given what session today had. I know these two conventions won't help who knows how much of an unemployment solution, or the employment of people in this country, where it's so large that it's impossible by one move, no matter how much he's dealt with. However, it is quite certain for this ministry and myself personally this debate today represents with the adoption of these conventions, if adopted, it is one task to work more responsibly, that all the institutions dealing with the employment problem, the problem that we talked about today, crucially on the basis of these two acts of the International Labour Organisation, will certainly be of benefit and we will bear in mind that every good proposal is once again being examined, to see that it is being installed into the system, so that we can make the system as effective as possible. However, let me note one small remark. All apologies to everyone. Today’s debate was largely about the consequences and very little about the causes. So unemployment in Serbia is the result of the long-standing causes and mistakes committed in this country and will not be possible to resolve them by any act or resolution. So it's going to take a lot of time, a lot of brains, a lot of hard work and, of course, a lot of inflows of new investment from both domestic sources and abroad, to stop at the green branch, so I'm asking you to take today's debate, just the part that concerns the conventions, which concerns the tasks that today's debate had ahead of us, to consider it as something relevant for our work today. This one, though, let's forget. It's not too productive for anyone when the polemics develop beyond the agenda and beyond the topic that's on the agenda. Thank you again. Thank you all for your cooperation and thank you for your help. We'll take all your suggestions into account. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-13-0.u12193	Thank you. I am concluding a joint single search on draft law confirming the International Labour Organisation Convention No 181 on private employment agencies and a proposal for a law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention No 150, on the Administration of Labour. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
