ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21370	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I called this special session to be addressed to the National Assembly by the Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement and Neighbouring Policy, His Excellency, Mr Stefan File. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, His Excellency, Mr. Stefan File, and next to him, the other members of the delegation, namely: His Excellency, Mr. Vensan Dežer, Head of the European Union Delegation in the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Jan Lolic – Sindelkova, Deputy Chief of Staff of the European Commission Enlargement and Neighbouring Policy, Mrs. Miriam Feran, Head of the Department of Political Affairs, Director of Enlargement, Ms. Martha Garcia Fidalgo, Department for Serbia, Directorate-General for Enlargement, Mr. Luka Bianconi, Head of the Political Affairs Department, Delegation of the European Union in the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Sanda Babić, Councilor for Political Affairs, Mrs. Dubravka Savić, Project Manager in the Information Centre of the European Union and Mrs. Adrusarski Kodrum. I also welcome the representatives of the diplomatic court, as well as representatives of the Department for European Integrations of the National Assembly, who are present at the Grand Hall Gallery of the House of the National Assembly. I now ask His Excellency, Mr. Stefan Phil, Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement and Neighbouring Policy, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21371	Dear President, honorary MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you warmly, Mr. President, for the invitation you have made to me today to address the Assembly, the assembly I respect. It's an honor to be here at this historic moment. On June 20th, the European Council opened accession negotiations with Serbia. Opening accession negotiations is of great importance not only for Serbia, but also for the entire Western Balkans, the entire Western Balkans region. The move only became possible because Serbia achieved and showed results, and the list of achievements is impressive. Although we should rarely talk about previous achievements, let me look back on the past. Last time I spoke to this parliament in March 2011, the Commission prepared an opinion on Serbia's membership bid and then listed eight priority areas where progress is needed, in order for Serbia to be able to open accession negotiations. You have been successful in achieving the results that were necessary, now you have to keep working on all these issues with the same intensity and perseverance, in order to complete all tasks in due time. Let us remind ourselves. Priority number one was judicial reform. Following the Constitutional Court's decision in July 2012, the Government and this Assembly, as a judicial reform, at the top of their priorities, welcomed the recently adopted new 2013-2018 Strategy, which, together with the Action Plan and several legislative acts, should create a sound and comprehensive basis for the successful completion of judicial reform. This is primarily in the interests of Serbian citizens, so you will form a solid foundation for a more predictable legal framework, which is necessary to improve Serbia's attractiveness for investors. Let me look back at one specific question at this point. We welcome the efforts made in reforming the Criminal Code, which refers to abuse of the official position. You know I'm referring to a former member of 359 where abuse in enforcement has caused many concerns. With this in mind, the ultimate goal must be a full credible reform, not just formal reform. We expect to see all previous procedures reviewed when it comes to private business on an individual basis in line with the new legal framework. When it comes to priority number two, which is the fight against corruption, Serbia was the most active in all three items I cited in March 2011. Under a) - The new strategy has been finalised and adopted by your parliament in early July. The more intensive work on Ackion's plan is under way. When it comes to the judiciary strategy, this work has been achieved with broad consultation with all factors and in close co-operation with the European Commission. b) - Two years ago I highlighted the importance of implementation, the necessity to achieve concrete, tangible results. Consistent over time and credible when it comes to processing and finishing the process, we see movement and shifts in this direction significant. I hope this encouraging trend continues. Under c) - Serbia has also achieved results in the third area I mentioned by adopting the new Public Procurement Act, setting up stable procedures to eliminate corruption from the procurement process. The third key priority was to amend the electoral legislation, the composition of your parliament, in order to make a third of women, is to bear witness to the importance of the success of these reforms. Many committees are headed by women, both from coalition and opposition parties. Let me show my gratitude here and welcome the former chairman of the European Integration Committee, Milica Delevic. I also welcome the appointment of her successor, Natasha Vukkovic. Since the Stabilisation and Association Agreement will take effect after the summer, it will be your task to chair, co-chair the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, whose inagurial meeting will be organised in Belgrade in the coming months. In general, we now welcome Parliament's regular practice of maintaining public hearing on key legislative proposals. It would be good if both the government and parliament could agree that the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure should be reduced to a minimum. It is mentioned in relation to the fourth priority, which is to ensure the adequate functioning of independent regulatory bodies. The assembly really believes that the work of these bodies is extremely important, and this confirms the appointment of senior officials and the provision of significant interaction within its parliamentary committees. We want such close cooperation to continue in the future, based on the trust and respect of the role of these independent bodies. Many things can still be done when it comes to the application and implementation of their knowledge and their recommendations. Also, significant progress has been made in the area of the fifth priority, which is a legal clarification when it comes to property rights and the sixth priority, when it comes to the protection of human rights and minority rights. I repeat, good work and success achieved to this day must not be stopped. We have established a recently adopted Anti-discrimination Strategy and the Roma Inclusion Action Plan. We hope to see that these acts will also be transposed into proactive approaches by state institutions and concrete measures on the ground. On all these priorities, let me stay here for a while and repeat that the Commission's expectations, when it comes to reforms, are that we expect reforms to be maintained, to continue, to be sustainable over time. This requires attention, resources, consistency and, above all, significant political will and guidance. I appreciate that this parliament has become more active in controlling the government's work because it allows key issues to be considered in public and contributes to greater public confidence. Let me continue now. Among the eight priorities I highlighted two years ago, the seventh was met in 2011, and that, if you remember, was full co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. The eighth priority is the process that remains under way, with regard to Serbia's active participation in regional co-operation and reconciliation, and determined and courageous engagement in normalising relations with Pristina. The Commission's opinion confirmed in the Council's conclusions made it clear that Serbia must take a step forward towards a visible and sustainable improvement of relations with Kosovo. It is a demanding process, but at the same time it is a process that is needed over time to achieve consolidated stability in the region and open new opportunities for all people living in Serbia and Kosovo. It was indeed a major turnoff that deeply reformed Serbia's image in political circles across Europe. It is a country that faces the past and accepts its European future. I welcome that this assembly has regularly discussed the ongoing dialogue and the outcomes of the dialogue expressed its heartfelt support for the agreement adopted in April. I want to honor the Serbian leadership of vision and courage. We also look forward to full confidence in Serbia's continued engagement in dialogue and implementation. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, calling for these eight key priorities, Serbia has now opened the door to a completely new phase in relations with the EU. At the heart of the decision adopted on June 28th is the credibility of the enlargement process. The European Union keeps its promises when the candidate country takes all necessary steps towards achieving and harmonising with membership criteria and achieving results when it comes to reforms. From now on, the process of European integration will become increasingly concrete and tangible for all in Serbia. This is particularly important for administration, civil society, business people, students, researchers, but it is also important for society in general and will be important for all citizens of Serbia. Given that the reforms implemented from the European agenda touch a large number of sectors, they directly or indirectly affect many aspects of daily life for Serbian citizens. It is important that the accession process should not remain in the exclusive domain of experts in the state administration, but rather be a public property. Change will be easy and progressive. Citizens should not expect miracles at the very end of this process when Serbia actually becomes an EU member state, but citizens should feel changes gradually stemming from accession and compliance with European standards. They will be able to feel this in their daily lives through negotiations and the process itself during which Serbia will meet more and more membership criteria, which will lead to a gradual improvement in the lives of Serbian citizens, which is actually the goal. Serbian citizens should feel a concrete change, a concrete improvement in their living standards, and it is important that this improvement is irrevocable. Let me finally mention the important role of civil society in this process. That's double. First of all, they will be part of the negotiation process in finding solutions and challenges, and in addition, they will continue to monitor the implementation of reforms and legislation together with the Government and Parliament and will be firmly committed and included in all phases, along with all other factors and thus contribute to making this process irreversible and sustainable reforms. We will open negotiations on chapters 23 and 24 on justice and fundamental rights. You will be one of the first countries where this new approach will be applied to the benefit of your country and your citizens. I assure you that this will not be just one exercise that you'll be counting everything you've accomplished, but you'll be creating laws and establishing institutions to change the lives of your citizens. Let me confirm, once again, that these benefits and benefits will be felt by your citizens during the process, not just in the end. Experience with other candidate countries has shown us that this transformation process is demanding and sometimes painful and also enables economic development and social development, the development of society in general. The most obvious measure is to improve trade and business opportunities and strengthen the single market, which will be reflected in increasing employment and new employment opportunities. Dear Parliament, next week the commission will present a draft negotiating framework to the Member States. Once Member States consider this framework in line with the June conclusions, it should be adopted and confirmed by the European Council, so that the first accession conference with Serbia is held at the latest in January 2014. Meanwhile, screening will begin in September, and today officials will go through the whole negotiation process at a seminar with Serbian officials. Allow me final comment, the negotiation process is very demanding. It's a process that doesn't necessarily have continuity and determination over a number of years. For this reason, the EU sees accession as a matter required by a consensus of national and party consensus. Serbia is already a good example. A party party consensus on a number of issues and key decisions has been provided when it comes to the European future. I know and I believe this country is ready and eager to engage with considerable and consistent efforts. That's because the ultimate goal is very ambitious. The goal is to prepare Serbia to take its place as an EU member. Let me assure you that the European Commission will be with you shoulder to shoulder and will help you achieve this ambitious and very important goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21372	I thank Mr. Stefan Phil. I conclude the fifth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you. (The session is closed at 10.40 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21373	The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 18 July 2013 (Third Day of Work) (The session began at 11:15 p.m.). The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21374	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287(2), Rules of Procedure, Thursday's MPs have the right to ask for information and an explanation. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21375	Thank you, Mr. President. After just 24 hours, as I reacted from this place to print graphite and decommissioning mosque in Nis, a new subsequent deforestation took place, but this time Belgrade's Bajrakli mosque, in the context of a trial for its burning in riots in March 2004. Now I don't want to comment on the court's decision and I don't want to violate his independence. What concerns, however, is the reasoning of the judge who led this case, given in the media that says that no damage to the larger volume was done, so I simply ask – what horror was it supposed to be that, according to its standards, the burning of the mosque was characterized as damage to the larger scale? These messages are very bad and very disturbing. At this point, with the information we possess, I can say that from the beginning of the trial in this trial, the prosecution itself has been placed so sloppyly that it could be assumed in the beginning that it will fall. To get to know the whole process in detail, I'm asking the D.A. for all available information on this case. On the other hand, speaking to people and reading online comments on this verdict, I have seen the reactions of the average Serbs, ordinary citizens of this country and the reactions of Belgrade. I have a human obligation to express my respect for their consciousness and their sensitivity to the injustice they have shown. I expect institutions to be a picture of these and such citizens that I want to believe are most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21376	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21377	Dear President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question will be referred first to the Ministry of Health, but it is also for the thinking of all of us, including the entire government. A few facts. One of the basic objectives of the Health Insurance Act is that as far as possible, by all categories of citizens, the population, provide the necessary conditions for health care from public spending. My question will be specifically related to Article 17(3) of this Act, i.e. to the next category of insurance companies – selected, appointed or appointed, if they make a profit, i.e. wages, or profits, as well as to Article 129(2) of the same law for the performance of their functions. For those insurance undertakings where there is a difference in the place of residence of the insurance undertaking in relation to the seat of the depositary, the parent branch shall be determined according to the seat of the depositary. Is it not logical that the elected, appointed persons are not all from Belgrade, that not everyone lives in Belgrade, that despite the general negative public attitude towards these people and the various opinions do not all of them have apartments in Belgrade, that they do not sleep every day in the capital, that they are not here especially when they are sick, or, for example, pregnant, like me? The application of these provisions, namely, specifically in the field, means that I, as well as all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, have remained elected, appointed and placed persons invisible, completely invisible in the system of branches of their residence and forced to be treated here in Belgrade or in private. So I, for example, specifically don't exist in the women's counseling system in Zrenjanin. Pregnancy, of course, I have to run in private or that for every minimum analysis, such as blood extraction, blood donation, etc. I have to come, to figuratively express myself, at an early dawn for Belgrade. Not to mention, it's exactly the same situation with all the most common colds and the most basic health services. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians certainly advocates decentralisation, thus also decentralisation of health care and health insurance, and thus for better availability and accessibility in the use of healthcare. This, and my particular case, is merely proof that it is not a rare situation of denial or difficulty in exercising the rights of all citizens in the field of health insurance. Namely, it's not a newspaper and let's be realistic that in health care institutions almost every time a patient comes, they're welcomed by the extremely unkind nurses, or in case they're examined, don't let God make phone calls, usually nobody picks up these phones, and if they happen to get an appointment at a health care facility, then when the patient comes, they wait for a minimum hour, an hour and a half. Lack of money cannot be an excuse and an explanation for these failures, and I hope the ministry will pay attention to this issue and address this particular problem in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21378	The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21379	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Prime Minister of Serbia. For the past few months, Serbian citizens have simply been bombarded with various information about the government's reconstruction. Personal solutions are being discussed, analyzed, normally through the media, which the minister worked well, which the minister did less, and then these same appointed ministers address the nation in a great wonder and, in such a way, objectively, saying that they were doing their job well and that they did not see absolutely any single reason for their shift. While the nation was busy with the question of whether the government's deep or essential reconstruction, until then in Serbia the electricity was completely undetected by 10.9%, fresh meat by 20%, meat processing 10%, home chemistry 25%, butter, cheese and milk products 17% and, imagine, in one agricultural Serbia, potatoes for an incredible 290.7%. While prices were simply wild, the second part of Serbia looks like this -- a million unemployed, 300,000 people who receive minimum earnings, and for those who do not know what the minimum earnings are, it is somewhere around 20,000 dinars and depends on the number of working hours during one month. As many as 36,784 workers do not receive a minimum profit, these twenty thousand, but there are incomes that are less than minimum earnings and receive an average of between 12,000 and 18,000 dinars. Don't think that's impossible, I'm going to set a very specific example, although there are more. Employees at Jumko Vranje receive a maximum of 15,000 dinars. So, according to all this data, we are coming to the conclusion that Serbia is indeed the only country in Europe in which and one who has employee status, therefore, an employee, also has the status of a socially endangered person. This isn't the end of our negative data. In fact, we are really the only country in the environment and in Europe where around 50,000 workers are being led as employees, but they don't receive any profits at all. Yes, there are such cases, and I have to use that term, those are the martyrs who are employed by those famous enterprises in restructuring, but they are also employees of companies whose companies, or their companies' accounts, are in a blockade. And this isn't the end of it. We must also mention those 300,000 people who today do not have health insurance in Serbia. So, that basic elemental right, the right to life, the right to treatment, in our country, 300,000 citizens have no right, in a country where, according to all the regulations, health insurance is free and accessible to all. Because of all this, I ask the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – what will and when will the government finally do something to protect the further decline of the Serbian population's standard of living? Indeed, workers and citizens of Serbia do not live on games called government reconstruction, workers and citizens live on opening new jobs, of which they do not survive, but live.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21380	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21381	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's clear to everyone from what I'm about to say that I didn't have to do this through a parliamentary question. There are a whole series of ways that I could have personally, and so are many of you to influence, but I think it's important that we all become aware on this case. The issue was formally addressed to the finance ministry first. I say formally, because it is actually addressed to the Agency for Restitution, the regional unit of Belgrade. I think it's important that we all hear one of these examples, because based on it, we can learn where we are led by dryness, and maybe even politicisation or unwillingness to compare the effects of laws, national obligations both towards citizens and other countries. Not to be too long, I'm just asking the record not to write all the numbers I'm going to read because there's no need, this is all directed to the Restitution Agency. In short, it is a solution that the Agency for Restitution has directed to a person who rightly, proving his ownership of a cereal store since 1924 in Bačka Petrovac, seeks his rights in accordance with the Law on Restitution. But in the meantime, this is not a grain warehouse, this is the Slovak Museum, the Slovak minority museum. In previous years, the National Council has also worked hard to celebrate ten years since the founding of Slovakia, and the Municipality of Baki Petrovac and the Assembly and Government of Vojvodina and the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia and the Department of Labour and the state of Slovakia. They've financed a total of over 20 million dinars. So, a dinar per dinar, a euro per euro, because our country also cares, as well as the Slovak State, the country of origin of Slovakia, that one of these institutions, such as the Slovak Museum, is in a building that has no useful value... Who knows what the warehouse is and who knows what the price of the squares is in Bačka Petrovac, will realize that the state has invested far more than it should. As you know, under the Law of Restitution, what is an institution of culture is not subject to return, but owners are being compensated. What is particularly important here, and because of the company, I want the Assembly and I to personally by August 5th as soon as possible, because I don't want to spoil the joy of our fellow Slovak citizens of the Slavic ceremony on August 5th, we get a clear answer to what has been done? All the documents of the decision and of the National Council and of the Municipality of Baki Petrovac in 2009, and the contracts for the transfer of the right of use, and contracts for leases by the AP, and contracts with the Ministry of Culture and Information, and the production of complete project documentation, and contracts for the Museum of Vojvodina Slovaks for the building of the warehouses of hops, together with the office of Slovak savings, in the original reading, countries of Slovakia, and payments and spending of funds, that I am not talking about thousands of items of material and immaterial heritage to be kept in this museum and which are now in unconditional conditions, all of this is now available to the Agency. I'm asking all of you, today he was here, I heard, Mr. Phil, and you're under a state obligation, not a policy -- what does anyone think in Europe, and you're the only body of this country committed to a whole series of things, among other things, you know what is being negotiated, so how do you think we negotiate chapter 24, if we have such failures of the administration? Once again, I ask that, apart from me, both the President of the Assembly and the National Assembly be informed of the outcome of the appeal sent by the National Council of the Slovaks of Vojvodina. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21382	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask one question from the Minister of Justice and the State Administration. He'll be here soon, but I found this inappropriate to do during a debate that has limited frameworks. What I'm about to ask is something about a recent event, it wasn't so soon, about a month or two ago, when a thief broke into the house, into a private apartment, and attacked the people who were there, in order to rob them. He had tools with him that were similar to depriveing a man of his life or hurting him physically, it's a screwdriver. The host in the house, hearing a bandit entering his apartment, defended himself by suffocating him, grabbed a knife that was nearby, in the kitchen, and in that asphyxiation he inflicted injuries on the attacker, such that he died afterwards. We will have a debate on whether or not overcoming the necessary defence will take place in this court proceedings. However, even if it is, and all that anyone here is responsible for the crime of murder by overcoming the necessary defence, one must ask a principle question – does this society intend to protect the apartment or house as a place of residence of people and whether the position of the accused, even in the event of over-requisite defence, must have a different position than it would have in any other situation? Our legislation does not know this difference, so someone who protects their child, their wife, who went to sleep, from a bandit who is willing to kill them all in the house to take a hundred or two hundred euros or some necklace from the drawer, therefore, the one who defends both his family and himself and all the property in his own apartment will treat as anyone who has exceeded the necessary defence in any other place, for any other reason. So our right doesn't know that difference. We are not unique in the world, therefore, many European legislations do not know the difference, but they know the practical mechanisms to overcome it. Those who know that difference formally are the United States. It's already known from watching crime movies. The United States does not allow anyone to defend themselves, to defend their apartment and their family or themselves from the gunmen, by being able to kill them unpunished, but the position in the process, the position in the process and the qualification of the work in a material sense, put truly a man who defends his own apartment, his own life and his family's life in a completely different position than that in any other place. It was only last year that Britain took US rates in this regard, following a series of brutal attacks on private property, on apartments, houses and unprotected family members of those attacked by gunmen. So one state has to react and protect these elemental values. My question to the Minister of Justice and the State Administration was – did the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration consider initiating a change of legislation in this regard? So I'm not prejudge the solution, I'm just saying. That someone who defends their own apartment or house, from a person who's armed with anything that can harm the body or endanger the lives of people who are in the house, so will overcoming the necessary defense qualify differently? Will the scene be introduced into the material law as a special relief environment? Will the procedural position of the accused change more significantly in his favor? Because we've seen that a person who does so likes detention automatically as soon as the police make an insight and see what it is, even that detention was extended and decided by a bigger one. Therefore, I am interested, therefore, in the matter very simple – will this change soon? Can we expect such proposals to amend criminal law?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21384	People's MP, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21385	Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my question, and at the same time notice, refers to the Ministry of Finance and Industry, or formally referred to the National Employment Service. In fact, compensation has been suspended these days, provided by former Kosovo-metohic workers. Serbs' associations from Kosovo and Metohija rightly respond and express dissatisfaction. Associations displaced from Belgrade, Kragujevac, Kraljevci, Kruševac, Nis, Novi Sad, Čačka, Raska, Smedereva, Podgorica and other towns of Serbia-Montenegro have petitioned the highest state bodies, where they ask for compensation not to be abolished, to define their status or that it is not abolished until the conditions for return are created. I want to inform the public, with respect for the economic situation in which the state of Serbia has found itself, that it is an amount of 8,000 dinars and that it is this so-called. minimum labour price, that the regulation was made on how to pay salaries and receipts for all persons who were working with Kosovo and Metohija back in 1999, that it was corrected in 2003, and that a 50% reduction occurred during 2008, without a decision. I want to tell you, I have before me the structure of employees in AP Kosovo and Metohija, I won't talk about it, but only for this part of the person displaced, so through the National Employment Service temporary compensation is paid for 20,020 persons, of which 9,076 are displaced, and 10,964 is in Kosovo and Metohija. We should also say that these persons and all those who finance and use the budget have not lost their working legal status by their own free will. This amount, on an annual basis, amounts to a gross amount of 176 million at an annual level for these people of 9,000. What is particularly important is the question of the status and fate of those persons and those people who have been in working and legal status and are now, with this decision, brought into a very unpredictable position and they are in extremely difficult condition. What's their status, especially for those who have a year, two, three, four, five to retirement, and so on? My question is related and I ask for an explanation – who has made such a decision? Does the decision foresee the status of those persons? Why is the decision of a retroactive character, a retroactive fact because, may I remind you, that last minimumer, or that compensation, was received for December 2012? I ask the question – who is and when has made such a decision? I ask for a notice – what is the fate and status of the person in moving? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21386	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21387	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask two questions - one about the electric shocks that await us in the coming days and the mini-political blows that have been present these days. The first issue concerns electricity collection, which will affect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the first month of next month, the economy and will, of course, be a continuity in the decline of the standards of life of Serbian citizens. Let us remind that this government, or this Assembly, has already voted to increase VAT from 18% to 20%, that changes in tax laws have increased citizens' property taxes. I recently cited an example that I got a tax bill about 60% higher this year compared to last year. My colleague in the back bench got a 300% higher tax bill this year compared to last year. Such and similar accounts were received by Serbian citizens, and will receive a new electricity bill as of August 1st. My question is, first of all, what does that 10% represent and what is the structure of that collection? Is it about the cost of electricity production, is it about an engaged force that one is undefined and nowhere in the world the existing category, and what is actually going to be paid by these citizens? I would just remind myself that the current in Serbia is not the cheapest, especially when it comes to wages in the region. So, for example, Croatian citizens pay 9.65 cents of electricity, while in Serbia it will be 6.14 cents per kilowatt hour. Since 1 August, however, the electricity in Croatia has cost 10%, with us collecting 10%, while the average salary is 730 euros and with us 380 euros. So the relationship is almost 100% and the purchasing power of Serbian citizens is almost 100% lower than our neighbours now in the EU. The second issue concerns the mini-political blows that are happening these days across Serbia. I'll give examples in Vojvodina. The first was on the agenda of the fair, the Novosad Fair, where a raid was carried out, the leadership was appointed without consulting and consent from the government of the AP Vojvodina that owns the fair. Yesterday, a chest surgeon was appointed as director of Luke Novi Sad, and that's a minor problem for me. The bigger problem is in the fact that 33% of the ownership in that Lucy has the government of Vojvodina, 33% of the town of Novi Sad, 33% of the Republic of Serbia, and that the government of Vojvodina has absolutely not consulted on this and that today, with personal security, new leadership has fallen into the Port of Novi Sad. A similar situation these days takes place in the agricultural good "Santic", in the agricultural good "Gakovo", in "Severtrans", etc. Without holding congregations, for the government's arbitrary decision or for someone from the government of the Republic of Serbia, there is a shift in legally elected leadership. In the case of Luke Novi Sad, it is obvious that it is a desire to privatise the port, although there is a decision not to privatise the port because it is property or good of national interest. (President: Time. Let me finish. So, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia - what does the structure of the increase in electricity prices and since electricity charge is 45% in Serbia, why don't they charge the debts first? The second question is, who is behind illegal raids and entry into state-owned enterprises, in this particular case in Vojvodina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21388	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21389	Mr. President, honourable MPs, my question today was initiated by the inscriptions in a particular daily newspaper yesterday. Although it appeared on cultural sites, it simply attracted the attention of certain circles in Serbia, and I believe that this issue exceeds the frameworks of a ministry, and I would therefore like the president of the government of the Republic of Serbia to answer this question, the finance minister as well as the director of the Office for Co-operation with Serbs in the region and to co-operate with the diaspora. Namely, a headline appeared in the paper to shut down the Serbian theatre in Budapest. I want to have respected colleagues who may not know this fact to say that the Serbian Civil Theatre in Budapest was founded in 1813. So we're in front of a two-century jubilee, which is rare for any theatre in Europe, let alone for a theatre of minority character in one country. Indeed, it is interesting that such an intention exists and that this is happening before the jubilee scheduled, therefore, to mark August 24th of this year, where this theatre, the people employed in it and our state and the Hungarian state, i.e. representatives, were ready to celebrate the conception of the Serbian Civil Theatre as the real name of this theatre. Something alarming happened this year. The entire funding system of this theater has been changed. I don't know if it's necessary at all to stress how important it is for the Serbian people to have this house for culture, for our identity in those areas. According to data, this theater has received no single dinar, not for its work this year, not for this significant jubilee. It is important to stress that this is the only national minority theatre of the Serbian people in Budapest. It's extremely significant that I'm just drawing attention that this is happening to them constantly shutting down just a few weeks before this jubilee was marked. The preparations have really moved away, it's not important to say that a special piece of life was written on Joachim Vujic's life, it's called "The Wonder in Rondela." It is not burning to mention the name and interesting subject, he simply wanted Joachim Vujic to impose something difficult on Serbs in those times, but something useful and we can pull a good parallel with today's political developments in our country. The director of the National Theatre of Hungary, Mr. Atla Vidnjanski, accepted that in their theatre, the National Theatre of Hungary, this piece also took place, to mark the jubilee with the presence of the theatre council of Serbia and Hungary, and envisioned the presence of top officials of the two states, therefore, in the rank of ministers, Prime Minister and possibly the president of both states. Preparations have also started to organise exhibitions and conferences on this topic. It was all started by the Hungarian side but these days this jubilee was brought under question because no bills are paid in this theater because of the lack of money, layoffs are given to employees. There is now only the manager, Mr. Milan Rus and several volunteers who hope to launch something in this House on this issue. So my question is -- what will the entire government, the finance ministry, the diaspora office do to shut down the Serbian Theatre in Budapest that has been in existence for two centuries? And what they will do and do to maintain a significant marking of the jubilee of the same work in Hungary. I hope that we will receive a concrete proposal next week to really enable the biennial Jubilee of the Serbian Theatre to be held in Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21390	Since none of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Tamara Tripic and Srdjan Milivojevic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, apart from the President of the Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, Aleksandr Stoiljkovski, election member of the High Council of the Judges, Zorica Stojsic, Daniele Sijedic, rebuked members of the State Council of Prosecutors, I have also called for the session to be attended by Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Mr Milica Coguric, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. All I'm asking is for the minister to come in. We continue the joint, principled, unique search of the proposals referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. Srdjan Spasojevic, as an authorised representative of the NS MP, appears for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, we have today a debate on the principle of the Law on Violations, and immediately at the beginning of this presentation, I would like to point out that the NS Group will support this legislative proposal. I must also point out that, if this legislative proposal had been fully supported when we had the Justice Committee, it would have been assessed as an extremely good law, and I think that, even if it were very correct, that what was at the vote on that committee would be passed on in this House, when all parliamentary groups were at stake. Regardless of the partially implemented reform of infringement proceedings in the Republic of Serbia, it remains largely ineffective, so we have a direct consequence of the fact that several tens of thousands of cases become obsolete annually, mainly due to the obstruction of parties, which are widely enabled by the provisions of the applicable law on infringements. According to data some colleagues also pointed out, out of more than 1100 items a year, a little over half is resolved, and over 400 cases remain unsolved and often become obsolete, so that the amendment of this law, i.e. the new law on violations, was necessary. In the practice of misdemeanor courts, therefore, the biggest of them is the biggest problem of ensuring in an effective way the presence of the accused and other participants in the proceedings. In this regard, there is also poor procedural discipline of parties. The inactivity of authorised applicants of criminal charges, as well as their lack of interest in the successful outcome of the procedure. In short, it is clear that it is necessary to amend many norms in order to specify the infringement procedure, simplify and make it simpler, more efficient, more economical, and most importantly more just, viewed from the corner of an ordinary citizen. For the above reasons, the provisions of Article 89 underline the impartiality of the court in a dispute in which there are two parties. The principle on which the court, under its official duty, determines the fact that it is in a position to bring a legal ruling shall be abandoned. This at the same time represents the most recent developments in the basic principles of the infringement procedure. Instead of the so far principle of establishing the truth, the principle of proof is introduced. The process burden should be on one side and the other in the process. Now in practice, we often have a situation that both parties are not interested in the course and outcome of the procedure. The applicant considers that his obligation is completed with the very fact that the infringement is being initiated, so the court is forced to carry out evidence by hearing witnesses, who are not again responding to the calls on the soybean side, which results in an obsolescence of the proceedings, as I have already pointed out. In Article 18. The bill in a more precise way is a defined guilt as the basis of the subjective responsibility of the natural person for the offence. The proposed definition is consistent with the definition of guilt in the Criminal Code. It is also a good solution in Article 28 of the Law, which provides for the possibility of punishing a legal follower of a legal person in order to prevent the avoidance of responsibility for the offence by deliberately shutting down a legal person. Article 38. The bill, the otherwise defined sanctions of public-interest work, and a solution which does not know the restriction has been incorporated, that public-interest work must be carried out at most two hours a day, which is otherwise the main obstacle to the application of this criminal measure in the current law. Article 58. The bill introduces a significant improvement when it comes to the protective measure of the ban on motor vehicle management. The most important moment is the fact that this safeguard measure does not apply to all motor vehicles, such as the current code, but only to the motor vehicle of the type or category to which the defendant committed the offence. The current legal solution is causing problems in everyday practice, as the defendant is going to commit an offence by driving an engine, and he is told a safeguard measure for all categories and types of motor vehicles. In this way, the accused is limited to the constitutional right to work, for example be a professional driver who manages a freight vehicle or buses. Besides, this principled solution is in the truth of our environment. Article 72 The bill extends responsibility for the behaviour of a minor, or child, to other persons who oversee a child. Article 84. The bill stipulates that a misdemeanor procedure cannot be initiated if two years have elapsed since the day the offence was committed, while the conduct of a misdemeanour procedure is, in any case, outdated when four years have elapsed since the day the offence was committed. Relative limitation deadlines for certain offences have been extended, given that judges for offences have been transferred to the rule of complicated tax, foreign exchange, customs, as well as other specific infringements. Article 126 provides for the possibility to impose a ban on the accused, damaged, which, unfortunately, is largely updated today because of the aggressive conduct of the accused, especially when it comes to domestic violence. I have repeatedly mentioned that a major problem is obsolescence for the conduct of a misdemeanor procedure, especially in large cities, because of the possibility of delivery, such as Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade, and this has an irregularly long duration of proceedings, i.e. the limitation of criminal prosecution, and therefore the proposed legal provisions are given due attention to the idea that precise definition of a minimum is reduced to avoiding reception in order to delay proceedings and avoid criminal liability. In this context, it is interesting that Article 157, which provides, when personal delivery is carried out, the possibility of an exception to the general rule on the personal delivery of calls to the accused or to the witness. On the basis of the new principle of criminal proceedings referred to in Article 89, the party is obliged to obtain evidence, whose implementation has been proposed and incorporated, the provision to provide the witness with a call through the party who has proposed his testimony, but only if this is not possible, the direct appeal of the witness shall be carried out by the court. Newspapers are also in the case of a misdemeanour order, and this instrument, both in the environment and in major European countries, simplifies the procedure for minor violations while significantly reducing the costs of state authorities. Article 216 has introduced a newspaper that the court may withdraw from the hearing of an official, authorised authority, the applicant of a request to initiate an infringement procedure, unless this person responds to a call for a hearing, which is also in accordance with the new principle, and is a burden of proof to the applicant of the request. In this way, a more effective infringement procedure will be conducted, and part of the responsibility for obsolescence of the infringement procedure will also be borne by applicants. In addition to the problem of delivery, the payment of fines is the biggest problem of a misdemeanor procedure. The practice so far shows that the payment of fines from natural persons and entrepreneurs is exclusively carried out under the threat of execution of prison sentences. This often leads to the occurrence of obsolescence, the execution of fines, if charged, the incurred costs of the proceedings tend to remain unpaid, since they cannot be replaced by a prison sentence and fall on the court's burden. Otherwise, it should be noted that the mandatory collection procedure under the provisions of the applicable Code, in the case of legal persons or natural persons whose replacement for a prison sentence is not possible, is transferred to other bodies, or regular courts, and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Enforcement and Security. All parties shall be placed in an unequal position, depending on whether they are natural or legal persons, contrary to the principle set out in Article 36. The Constitution, which guarantees the right to equal protection of rights and of legal means, as well as in general the principles of the procedure guaranteed by the equality of parties in the procedure. Therefore, the new solution provides for the infringement court to carry out the mandatory collection procedure on its own, which will contribute to greater efficiency in the collection of fines. In that respect, the provision of Article 314, as well as the basic rule provides that the forced payment of fines and other fines awarded shall be carried out by the infringement court which has imposed them. The provisions of this law prescribe the establishment of two centralized registers as well as electronic databases, one on the defendant himself, and the other on criminal sanctions imposed. In this context, I believe that it is an extremely important provision of Article 336, which says that until the person who is punished, until the amount owed is fully settled, will not allow the issuing of licences or assurance for which the competent authority of the administration is issued, except those relating to personal status. Finally, rather than conclude, I believe that the proposed text of the Law on Infringements in general and fundamental and crafts law has been very well done, that the Proposer has previously accurately detected all the problems currently in practice, and the result of legal solutions in the current Law on Infringements, that new solutions are then extremely detailed and precise procedures and procedures that should contribute to increasing the overall effectiveness of the infringement procedure in the Republic of Serbia, and that in the day of the vote, New Serbia will support the adoption of the proposed law. So once again, the law is very good. What has been a problem for years of obsolescence, the Institute has been introduced, in practice, that both sides have to apply certain evidence, thus putting citizens who are trespassing in the same position of proof. So far it has not been so, but only one party has been widely believed in the process and for all these reasons, as I have said, it seems to me that there is a general opinion and opposition, of course, the ruling coalition that the law is good and once again to say that New Serbia will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21392	Thank you. Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives report to the floor? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21393	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, representatives of the High Council of the Court of State Council of Prosecutors, honourable fellow MPs, today we are discussing the draft law on violations that can rightly be pointed out to be a significantly better legal solution than still the applicable Law on Infringements. Undoubtedly, the greatest quality of this law is that the status of the criminal court is confirmed as an inseparable part of the judicial system, and the decisions of this court are no longer administrative acts brought before by administrative authorities – municipal and city councils for violations, as well as second-degrees for violations. In this way, the right to judicial protection and the right to justice because of the unlawful act that has the traits of the offence is now being exercised in independent courts and these are criminal courts. What is very important is that in this way it was respected and what implies the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to accept EU standards, and in particular to recognise the legal standards in the area of criminal law and, perhaps most importantly, that respect for the constitutional principle and the constitutional principle that decisions on punishment and decisions on the establishment of anti-legislative action can be made by courts and exclusively by courts. What, then, is the political message this Assembly is supposed to send to the citizens? Simply, it is the establishment of a system of legal certainty in matter in which this legal certainty has not been adequately achieved so far and has not been adequately provided and this is the area of offense. Unfortunately, the criminal law and the authorities that applied it were not only burdened by this problem that I am pointing to in this discussion, which is the problem of formal-legal structure. There have been many other problems, and these are the problems that have been generating mainly the radical reform of Serbia's judiciary. Why? Simply because the experiments carried out in courts and over the judiciary are above the judges of general jurisdiction and the judges of special jurisdiction, and these are experiments on living people, they were conducted in the same way as the wrongdoers. A large number of misdemeanor judges lost their jobs in the judicial reform, so they were forced to judicial protection, to protect their labour status, to protect their rights recognised by the Constitution, to search just before the Constitutional Court. How was the epilogue? Before the Constitutional Court, the procedure for constitutional appeals by all those, including the criminal judges, who, rightly or wrongly, have found themselves out of office is known to the general public. In addition to all these problems, however, something needs to be pointed out that no one can question, either in the field of profession or outside the profession. These are the problems associated with the absolute ineffectiveness of the criminal courts. A problem that is linked to a great emergency in the criminal courts, given the vast number of pending cases, to a huge number of proceedings pending. Both parties and judges and legal solutions contributed to this problem. Why? So simply for reasons of being accused of infringing cases, they acted obstructively, i.e. using various types of obstructions from unwarranted non-registration following calls for a hearing before criminal courts, then refusing to accept a hearing and various other means that had just come to an end, or that the infringement proceedings would become obsolete or that the enforcement or enforcement of a criminal sanction would be outdated. Unfortunately, it has brought down such little trust and such small authority of the criminal courts and created an even greater, absolutely greater stimulation for all potential perpetrators of the offence to continue. That had to get in the way. It had to stand in the way simply for the reason that the misdemeanor courts were currently loaded with over a million cases. Of these, half of the cases are pending, and there is a serious danger that a large percentage of the number of cases will become obsolete in case the existing legal solutions are not changed, and we are here to make these legal solutions better, better quality, more efficient, so that these phenomena don't happen anymore. We will simply come to the point that by stimulating the perpetrator of the offence, to remind citizens who are not lawyers only of the offence against legal action which is, in any case, milder, milder nature and milder degree of social danger, which is why they are called offenses and not crimes. But if we allow stimulation, if we allow the perpetrators of the offences to behave so easily, that they will never be punished, if they are punished that the sentence will become obsolete, then there is a danger that we are about to come into a situation where these violations become a kind of cancer that will metastasize and seriously lead to the undermining of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, it's not any cataclysmic or catastrophic statement. It is one reality that primarily Serbian citizens face, and it is they who have the right to seek justice before courts, as well as criminal courts, and to exercise the right to legal certainty. The next problem that I have raised to these problems is with over 20 to 30,000 cases that have been solved annually, and the same number, about tens of thousands of cases of limitations, is inexecutability of punishment. What does punishment mean and what are the consequences of punishment if the punishment cannot be carried out? How will the accused, as a perpetrator of a crime, feel the repression as a consequence of punishment and, moreover, how will this punishment act preventively on the other potential perpetrators of the offence if the penalties are not carried out? In criminal proceedings, there remained a large number of penalties that had not been imposed, especially fines. Dear Ministers, I believe that the ultimate good and quality solution in the Bill of Infractions which has been introduced by a new institute, the Institute of Violent Responsibility for those who are obliged to exercise control or control over persons who may appear as potential offenders, especially where minors are, so that both parents and fosterers, and adoptors and all those who are obliged to take care of potential perpetrators of criminal offences are not only subject to criminal liability, but also the responsibility for damages, which, as a consequence of the infringement, certainly results, and therefore also the responsibility for the punishment to which they will be punished, so that the punishment will be implemented in an adequate manner towards those to whom they are truly, in accordance with financial opportunities and adequate legal mechanisms, can be implemented. There are still many problems that burden infringements, and one of those that hopefully will be removed by the proposed law on violations is the absence of procedural discipline, especially the discipline of parties in proceedings. Judges and legal solutions contributed to this problem, but to the greatest extent, the party. Let's remind ourselves of that principle that has been represented in criminal law so far. This principle consisted solely of courts and judges collecting evidence, which is inadmissible. What does that mean, the party being released from the burden of proof? On the contrary, the disposition of parties in a misdemeanor procedure must also be as represented. The party shall assume the burden of responsibility for proposing evidence to confirm both the facts and the facts or the grounds for the request to initiate the infringement proceedings or, in the case of such liability, to attach to its defence those evidence which will confirm the facts contesting the request to initiate the infringement proceedings by the accused. Who's been applying so far? Police officers, especially from the area where violations occur most often, and these are traffic offences, have been endured by inspectors, have also been tolerated by other supervisory authorities and bodies. But what's going on? It happens that none of those persons, who undoubtedly have party legitimacy in the process, have ever participated in the procedure. If he has never taken part in the proceedings, it means that he is not interested in the procedure, that he is perfectly not interested in what will be and what kind of epilogue his request to initiate the proceedings will be, and this does not lead the judge to the situation that the judge is carrying out evidence, which is inadmissible. This time the burden of proof is transferred to one to whom the burden of proof must be transferred and which burden must be borne throughout the entire course of the infringement procedure, as this is the only way to make the infringement procedure more meaningful and more efficient. For all of this, I believe that the Ministry of Justice has made the right move, what was necessary to do in relation to this legal matter, which is precisely the draft law on the violations that we are discussing today. I will refer to several more good solutions both to this law and to the introduction of institutes which have been transposed or implemented from the criminal code into this law on offences, because, let us not forget, this law on offences is essentially divided into both the regulation of the area of material law in the area of criminal law and procedural law, so it can be considered a mixed law of material legal nature and procedural legal nature. I think a good solution is to introduce a legal institute of public interest. This is, in any case, a criminal sanctions imposed on minor types of offences, against legal activities that are minor in social danger. Mr. Minister, I ask you to have one fact in mind which is also the amendment of the SPS parliamentary group affirmed, which is to avoid the work of public interest as a criminal sanction being brought by, no less or less, the authority of local self-government. In my view, this is inadmissible because public work or work in the public interest is exclusively a legal category, it is strictly a regulation, it is exclusively the courts of yield, and that before cities and municipalities have legal mechanisms to substitute work in the public interest in punishment. That substitution is law-abiding. If we want to take a comparative view of the work in the public interest in relation to what socially beneficial work implies under the provisions of the laws, or the law on criminal sanctions and the enforcement of criminal sanctions, then this institute must be resolved differently. Let's not forget the fact that the multiple effect of this criminal sanction is. Why? Because of this violation of sanctions, the state has the advantage of the above. Work is done for the benefit of society. He's unpaid and not under duress. Such work does not offend human dignity. Then why leave the authorities and bodies of local self-government to impose such a criminal sanction? The next quality solution in the proposed law refers to the liability of legal persons. I think this solution is very good and reasoned and systematic in this law of violations. The provisions of the proposed law relating to safeguard measures for the SPS parliamentary group deserve special attention, and that will be a well-intentioned suggestion, a team before the amendment, which, in addition to the other amendments, has been submitted by the SPS Group, and I have signed them, precisely related to this matter. It is a protective measure to prohibit certain activities of a legal person. I ask you to pay particular attention here, because in one of the provisions of Article 56(1) of the proposed law, it is said that this ban may also apply to other specific tasks. Mr. Minister, first of all, I think it's an undetermined term - the second set of jobs. It's pretty wide and abstract. On the other hand, what if he's a legal person who's being prosecuted in bankruptcy proceedings? What do we do with the fact that we have a situation where a bankruptcy manager has to take care of the protection of property that goes into bankruptcy, manages it, eventually rents, makes the proceeds to settle the costs of bankruptcy, to settle the trustees, and then we come into a situation where we show protection – you can't do that, it's forbidden? This is absolutely inadmissible by the fact that in this way it directly violates the law on bankruptcy, which makes these provisions and how they are clearly regulated, on the one hand. On the other hand, the general principle of bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings is brought into serious doubt, which is the settlement of creditors. Please consider this amendment in this direction and in particular. As for the public publication of judgments in a misdemeanor procedure, I really think it is unacceptable, that in no case should a verdict involving a minor, or a minor as a perpetrator of an offence be published, as this would be the opposite of both the Constitution and the standards and principles and all the positive legal regulations. So he would ask that this provision be considered in particular the amendment submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. There is also a need to consider introducing opportunity into a misdemeanor procedure. Why? If we have already accepted the proposed law on offences to introduce in this law an institute of plea agreements, which exists in the Criminal Code, why can we not do so in a misdemeanour procedure, i.e. in criminal law? What would be the discrimination against the perpetrator of a crime? Why aren't they in an equal position? They're all equal before the Constitution and before the law. I think that even this principle of opportunity, if introduced, through a solution to delay criminal prosecution, would significantly lead to a reduction in the number of outdated cases, a more effective solution to existing cases, and thus to raise the degree of alertness. In the end, when we talk about the law on violations, we have to keep in mind and position as judges. I ask Mr. Minister, in this direction, to pay particular attention to what involves the professional training of offenders, to pay particular attention in this direction to what involves education and educational work, especially in view of the fact that we are now moving to a new procedural and legal form of solving cases with party disposition. Therefore, the judge is no longer obliged to collect evidence, but he is also a judge and is obliged to order the parties to submit these evidence and to place them. There is a question that so far no one has solved in criminal law, who has been punished so far for not showing up in court because he has not suggested evidence, because he has obstructed the criminal proceedings himself? Nobody. He's even stimulated. As I will speak later and as a registered debater, I believe that, in this short period until the end of the hearing, it is necessary to say about the decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. I ask you to accept the position of the SPS parliamentary group in this direction, which is that as soon as possible, the amendments to the constitutional solution under which the Republic's parliament decides in any way on the choice of judicial holders, in order to avoid, above all, any kind of political influence and any doubt about the independence of judges and judges. This isn't a demagogy, this isn't a declarative statement. This is avoiding political marketing and the truth. And the truth is that when all decisions relating to the judiciary and judges are excluded from this Parliament, then we can be absolutely sure of the independence of the judiciary, or the independence of the judiciary. But since we already have that obligation... Mr. Markovic, I would only ask you to finish. Since we already have this obligation, it is our duty to at least determine ourselves according to this decision relating to the choice of judicial officials to be elected for the first time, which is the confidence of the SPS parliamentary group that they have just proposed to meet all the conditions to be holders of judicial functions. I have no doubt, nor does my MP group have reason to doubt it. Once again, I will appeal to the rapid adoption of criteria by which judges will be evaluated and evaluated in a measurable, fair and adequate manner. Given that I will continue my discussion later, I would like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will undoubtedly support the proposals that today are the points of the agenda that we are discussing, in particular the draft law on violations, as well as other decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21394	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21395	Dear President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, there is a law on violations ahead of us, which I could say is quite enriched. It contains some new institutes that I believe are generally good and, if a few amendments are adopted, which it has submitted and the LSV parliamentary group, I think we will finally get a good law on violations. Given that the law is quite extensive, and that time is small, I will look only at a few details that have made me interesting, both legally and politically, so first of all, I would go from the provisions concerning liability for the offence which states that persons, legal persons, legal persons, legal persons and entrepreneurs are responsible for the offence, and that the Republic of Serbia, territorial autonomy and local self-government units cannot be responsible for the offence, which is logical. My question would be purely termological, and it concerns territorial autonomy, since, as far as I am aware, there are two territorial autonomys in the Republic of Serbia -- AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija, and since, as far as I am aware, the regulations of the Republic of Serbia do not apply to the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, we are left with the AP Vojvodina. This would therefore be my question – for which reason the law does not specify that it is an AP Vojvodina, or perhaps you intend to establish another territorial autonomy, so that you can get to know us about it. So much for that part. As a new area, I have observed that you are introducing a criminal liability of a legal person that I consider to be good, but as a basis for introducing it, you state that these changes would prevent legal persons from avoiding criminal liability in changes to their status. I think that, as far as I've met in practice, legal persons who enter criminal liability with fines that are most often in pretty large amounts, often cease to exist through bankruptcy and liquidation procedures, so that status changes are less likely. Since new legal entities can be established for only a few thousand dinars, I believe that the interest of the perpetrator of the offence is to stop the legal face from being there because it's cheaper to start a new one. In any case, it's good that these provisions exist in the law. I would also refer to provisions where the burden of proof of the character of the offence and responsibility is transferred to the applicant for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure and no longer constitutes the obligation of the court, which is somehow a logical solution to the subsequent new CAP. However, I believe that the nature of the offences as acts that represent a lower degree of social danger than criminal acts should be considered, and therefore, in my opinion, it was necessary to analyse the interest of the applicants to participate actively in the infringement procedure, given the experience from scratches, where it is rare that in the infringement proceedings itself, applicants do not appear either, or appear after multiple calls from the court. So, I believe that given the social danger that the offence carries with it, despite the fact that the majority of Serbian citizens are mostly involved in misdemeanor proceedings, I think that this should have been considered and might have been a little bit careful when adopting this kind of solution, where applicants should actively participate in the infringement proceedings, since the practice has not shown that this is happening. I consider this to be the reason why it is most often problematic for applicants to apply for an infringement procedure which is legally justified. This puts into question the possibility of processing it through the procedure itself, and in this way I believe that we are jeopardizing the effectiveness of the conduct of these proceedings, of course and the expertise of certain applicants of the request to initiate the infringement procedure. Next to this, I would refer to statutes of limitations. I think it's a good thing that the old-fashioned conduct of the proceedings and the execution of criminal sanctions was defined, which was not the case in the existing legal solution. It's much more precise here, and that's fine. but, in my opinion, you have unfoundedly extended the limitation period to two or four years when it comes to absolute obsolescence, since I believe that this can lead to inertity as the applicant requests, for deadlines to apply for misdemeanor proceedings, and also to the courts themselves, and water procedures, because they will be quite easy on the time in which the procedure is to begin and end. I think the very purpose of criminal sanctions in this regard will be divorced and the proceedings will take an unfounded lengthy time. I believe that more attention should be paid to the responsibility of the applicants themselves, with the reduction of the time limit for submission of requests and perhaps because of some disciplinary responsibility for those who are unfoundedly prolonging as they require, and the very course of the infringement procedure, where I think of the applicants on the one hand and the criminal judges on the other. This new legal solution introduces a new institute. It is a violation order, which allows the offender to pay half of the fines prescribed in a fixed amount, thus increasing the effect of the collection, as you say, and thus reducing the possibility of corruption by police and inspection authorities. I certainly think this warrant is a good solution. However, I believe that there is little unfortunate reason for its introduction, since the degree of corruption both of police officers and of the inspection authorities, in my opinion, cannot be reduced in this way, but can be reduced by increasing the profits of police officers and inspectors. Otherwise, if the penalty is not a fixed amount, you state that there is a obligation to apply, i.e. the need to individualise criminal sanctions, in the case of certain other types of infringements, i.e. criminal sanctions. Namely, I would say that individualisation is important for each offence, both for the one where the sentence is fixed in a fixed amount and for the one where there is a range of penalties, that is, where the other criminal sanctions are imposed, and I believe that the perpetrators of the offences which are based on a criminal order will also be interested in not being taken into account in the records of the criminal sanctions and the criminal penalties issued by you, since, of course, it is one of the grounds for the identification of the individualisation, i.e. the choice of the type and the measures of criminal penalties to be imposed on them in any subsequent procedure. For this reason, I believe that, above all, it is necessary to make independent police and inspection bodies and thus increase their earnings and thus make them independent, and I also think the same about judges and prosecutors. I also see that you particularly point out the more precise arrangement of the work measures in the public interest. What we must mention is the purpose of this measure. It is very rare in practice that this measure is used as a substitute for fines, which is certainly a good solution, given the economic situation of Serbian citizens, which is very bad. I hope that the intention was not to compensate for the replacement of fines with a penalty, i.e. a measure of public interest, because the very economic situation of Serbian citizens is a burning problem. I hope that wasn't the reason for you to introduce this kind of measure, so someone who commits some kind of offence, so he can't, because he doesn't have a job to pay a fine, gives him the opportunity to do something for the state for free, or for local self-government, as a colleague has stated, and as a legal solution has been defined. I think there's another way for citizens to have the opportunity to pay fines, which is that they have the opportunity to get a job. I hope this government deals with the issue a little bit, since it's about time. It's been over a year, and nothing's been done about it. After all, I would certainly refer to the provisions on minors. I think it's a good thing that they've been solved in this slightly broader way than they were before. What would be an objection, which may be minor, but in my opinion, it would be good if these provisions were united in one head, not that they were in two heads, since the provisions on minors, i.e. their position in a misdemeanour procedure, are listed in chapter 23, are treated as minors. I personally think that it would be better if all of this were in one head, that those provisions on minors were united, but it's basically all good. What I also think, I think, is that one of my colleagues has submitted an amendment to something like this, is a juvenile prison, which I consider to be a very strict sanction for a minor, but good. Finally, I would just look back and I would say that the LSV parliamentary group is likely to vote in favour of this law, which will also be determined whether you will adopt the amendment to Article 94 that we have submitted. As I heard yesterday, the same amendment was submitted to the SVM parliamentary group. It is that the court is given the possibility to determine whether the procedure will apply the language of a national minority, i.e. the language used in a given territory or not. I think it's a very broad jurisdiction for the court. It is a right established by the Constitution. I don't think there should be any calculation of whether or not this right can be applied. I don't know who specifically took part in writing this law, but it certainly is to us in Vojvodina, where in the official use of six languages, this is quite a significant field. We think it should be carefully arranged, without the possibility of different interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21396	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21397	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Ministers, Chief, election members of the DVT, I may start my presentation a little unusual. He is already 659 years old since the Law of Emperor Dusan, which is known in our country as the Dusan Code. For those who do not know that, the code was passed on 21 May at the Skopje Parliament in 1349. The code is again for those who do not know it, completed five years later at the Assembly in Sera. For those who don't know where Sir is, that's the area of northern Greece today. I can't give you the exact coordinates, but let's say it's about a hundred miles north of the Holy Mountain. For those who like to travel to Tassos, when they get to Tassos, they need to know they went right through Sir. Also, it seems to me, so many years have passed in all our legal ignorance. In fact, the only lawyer from our area who realized what the right is, and what the right is not, was Valtazar Bogisic, who is a modernist of another legal giant, Teodor Taranovski. If you ask me who Theodor Taranovski is, it's the same man thanks to who and what little some know about Dusan's code, they know exactly thanks to him. If you ask me what is common between Valthazar and Theodore, a Serb who was a professor of law in Russia and a Russian who was a law professor in Serbia, it is certainly common that, given that they had spent certain and other time in the east, some time in the west, they were also supporters of the same school. If you ask me which school it is, Friedrich Savinji. Who is this Friedrich Savinja? Let's say, today if he were alive, the first thing he would do, he would have abolished the bathing school of natural law. Who wouldn't agree with him? I don't think so, let's say, Jean Jacques Russo. Who would agree with him and immediately put a lock on that same school, a worshiped bathing school? Let's say Max Webber. Imagine, behold, miracles, both Vlatazar Bogisic and Teodor Taranovski and Max Weber realized that the right had its own history, so even if nature had its own history. We don't get it. It's nice to be a member of a natural law school, because in that school, rights fall from the sky. But when it comes to historical-legal school, it's a little harder. There must be sleeves, history must be well studied, then some laws must be written. This only shows, unfortunately, that there is much more legal leniency in our legal system than legal workers. You can ask me what all this has to do with the draft law on violations. There is, of course, always is. Those who seek can always find a connection. In fact, it's not just a language that's been passed down from knee to knee for centuries. Rules are passed on, transmitted, if you will, and entire legal systems. A man doesn't wash his hair and he doesn't shower because it's prescribed by the rule of phytosanitary protection, but because it's common, but some other way. I'll also give a definition of ordinary law. In order to reach this draft law on a misdemeanor procedure, and hence to the main problem called the Serbian judiciary's collapse, we must travel through Dusan's code. It's not Dushan's code so famous, it's so big because it was written there by some ruler of ours. Other rulers wrote other laws, but do you know whose name they bear? It is known that Dusan's code and precisely for one reason, because Serbia has applied it on its own, I will repeat it again, on my own. She applied it to the lives of Emperor Dushan after his death. The same Dusan code was applied both during Mrnjavčević and during the Kosovo battle. I bet a lot of people don't know the same law was applied during the Turks. It was applied in the 18th century with the beginning of the 19th century, etc. During all that time, Serbia has applied it more as customs. But what is a paradox is that it has applied it much more consistently than we are applying today any law that we have passed in this House. If you ask me now why she applied him after his death, when no one had an obligation to make us do something like that? I'll tell you the secret, too, because that's where we come into the main problem I've already told you, and it's called the collapse of the Serbian judiciary, and that's the law on a misdemeanor procedure. I can look back on one fact. In fact, Serbia respected the same law of Emperor Dusan, because Dusan ordered the law to be prepared immediately after its coronation in 1346. What I will especially point out, this law has been prepared, beware, for four years. So he's been prepared for four years, and then nine years he's been working on his training. So, this law was completely completed only after 13 years of work and imagine another fact – it is 201 members. Why did I say all this? Because today we have before us a Law of Infractions numbering 343 members, much more than Dusan's and a much shorter one. Of course, when a law enters a congregation procedure, so I can say, that's a shortcut, and with good intentions to arrange a misdemeanor procedure, I don't think that's the best solution. Of course, after the already mentioned Emperor Dusan, Theodore, Friedrich, however you wish, I must also mention Michael Konstantinovic, the same creator of the famous Law on Liaison Relations, which is still in force today and which we still apply today. They all figured out everything I've already mentioned. Perhaps someone will say that these are too strong words for one law on misdemeanor. I don't think so. I'll explain why I don't think so. Because I believe that the Law on Infringement Procedure, in addition to the Law on General Administrative Procedure, is, in fact, the laws on which a state should rest. If you ask me, why? Here's the answer right away. First because the state and we as a society need to operate on three system-based legal levels. If you ask me, who's the first? Surely the first law on general administrative procedure is because it regulates the behavior of the administration. The second level is to just mention the Code of Infringement. He sanctions the behavior of all those others in connection with the functioning of the state. The third level is, of course, the Code of Criminal Procedure, which sanctions those most difficult behaviors. So, any behavior that is not a criminal offence, which puts our people and our society's functioning system at risk, if you will, and our legal system, is a violation. For these very reasons, the system of determining criminal liability, as well as the entire system of enforcement of criminal sanctions, must be absolutely impeccable. This law in order to achieve its literal application, i.e. it should achieve its application precisely for the very reason that if, it seems to me, this law on violations, has a single flaw, I fear that this flaw will also reflect on the application of a series of other laws, not only of those who have passed and who are already in their legal power, but also of those who will be adopted in the future by this Assembly. Of course the ministry had to arrange a broad exchange. We heard there was a public debate, if I remember correctly, on October 23, 2012, but one. I have heard some excuses before, not only from the Minister of Justice but also from other ministers – you can get to know each other more in detail on the site. You know how, I don't care what's on the site, it's my right not to care, you can put a lot on the site. I'm only interested in what officially enters the congregation procedure as a proposal for a law. On the other hand, it is the Ministry of Justice that should organise some discussions and not just one discussion, which should organise seminars, which should organise gatherings, round tables, whatever you want, to discuss everything, to debate everything, and only in the end to find the proposal that will enter the Assembly, and this Assembly that it has not been available for a month, perhaps even a little more, to see whether the bill is the best solution, or whether we as MPs can contribute to making it even better. I've got a lot of praise on concrete law. I'll make that public. My first commendation goes, first of all, because it's a regulated issue of a misdemeanor order. I think that the introduction of a criminal order as an institute should bring one revolution into our legal system, but I don't think it will bring a revolution into our legal system just for one simple reason, because the other parts of the criminal system won't be able to escort it. That's why public debates are very important, not just one and not only for someone to argue there, but because two brains are always smarter than one and, of course, 200 always than 20. I'm going to charge you with what's good in this law. It is great that the legal person's responsibility is defined, which is being introduced in the public interest that I support, because the fine can be replaced by the work of the public interest, which is, in fact, the whole proposal of the law tends to reduce the obsolescence of the infringement proceedings to the least possible extent possible, because the damage is given greater rights in the criminal proceedings and it seems to me, is going in the direction of the better functioning of this particular infringement procedure, because the public prosecutor is given powers, in fact, better defined by the powers that have existed so far, because it is being extended and because the institute of a criminal order is being defined, which is a fantastic idea and I think is one of the key in this law, which should contribute and enable its effectiveness in application, because the execution of sanctions is now trying to make this bill more effective, because it defines a unique register. On the other hand, I have to have some criticism. I was a doon, so for the weekend, I made about 30 amendments, up and down, more or less, it doesn't matter, but I'll look back at what's wrong with this law. Of course, it's my opinion and you experience it any way you want. It is bad that although the responsibility of foreign legal entities has been mentioned, I do not think it has been taken into account that by approaching, and we are certainly going towards Serbia's EU, we have an increasing number of foreign legal entities present on the domestic market that will carry out jobs without opening any representations. Moreover, according to the legal terminology referred to in Article 31(2), no foreign legal person operating in the Republic of Serbia, in our territory, will be responsible for the violation, as the law says only those foreign legal entities who have their own representations will answer for the offence. I think it's so wonderful, that tomorrow when their business is possible without opening a representative, no foreign director who has any brains will open a representative office, because without opening a representative office, his firm will be able to function without being punished for any offense, even though it operates on our market. On the other hand, I already said on behalf of the DHSS that I am extremely supportive of the work of public interest. I'm sorry that such an institute existed and so far has not been applied, or is extremely rarely applied. Of course, I support the promoter and have a complete understanding of such a thing when it is foreseen by this bill. In Article 35. The draft law provides that work in the public interest can also be prescribed by a regulation. It seems to me that it didn't really know which direction to go, so it was defined for a compromise solution, precisely because there was a dilemma whether to allow sublegal acts to prescribe this punishment, and under these sublegal acts I mean and regulations of local self-government, or whether it was only allowed to be regulated by law, so it took, due to the dilemma, a compromise solution that could be done by regulation. I have not submitted an amendment to this article because I believe that there are, perhaps, good and bad arguments for such a question. After all, it is possible to accept both extremes in some way, especially in terms of public-interest entities, but we have not had the opportunity to discuss it professionally, or at least to hear the opinion of some of us. I think that, when we mention this work in the public interest, I think that the profession, first of all, is legal, and there are a bunch of MPs here, should have given one chance that they would suggest some of their modalities to implement an idea like this, of course, that I support. On the third hand, Serbia must also take care of its interests. He must punish strangers the way he doesn't punish domestic subjects. That is why, in my personal opinion, it was necessary to introduce and create a system of criminal sanctions of a so-called. Blacklist. It's no wonder, because it exists in other countries for foreign companies. In the case of the most significant regulations, some EU countries will ban a foreign company from doing business on its own, rather than spreading its nose to their market in any segment, regardless of whether they have open representations or do not have any representations on that market. That's exactly how one system, so if you want the economics, at the very least, if you want the legal system, protects itself from the attack from the field. The protection system does not provide for one such possibility but only a ban on certain activities for a specified period of time. I think the state, so if you want the judiciary, has to be more determined than that. The state must provide one such system in which no legal person who is in ownership of the perpetrator of the offence, with the offender, must break his nose on this market. There's a bunch of fictitious companies today. We're all witnesses to that. Nothing strange in the country of Serbia. They attack our market by firing out those famous phantom bullets from some islands, say the Virgin Islands, and then the state has to build a system, which is the judiciary, first of all, that will keep us from such attacks. I think these are the very black lists I mentioned, which I tried to propose through the amendment. I think by accepting the amendment, if I can't give you some results, then at least start one time at that. I think you should have arranged a serious public debate on this matter. Although I may be in the minority, perhaps I am not, I will say that in the debate in principle and in the debate in particular, and even when I use the time of my parliamentary group, I think extending the limitation period is an absolutely bad solution. I will remind you that those professors of law and those who have promoted law school, not only the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, because there is not only the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, there are other cities in our country, set up a system in which absolute obsolescence occurs in two years and there are many reasons why it is and there are many reasons for that. All parliamentary groups received a letter of "transparentity of Serbia", which believe the deadline should be longer. I think they're wrong because they only have one thing in mind. They mean corruption, but the violations are not prescribed for corruption because if you break glass in a window, it's not going to have anything to do with corruption, but it's going to have to do with the offense. In fact, I personally understand that a violation that is not sanctioned as soon as possible is not worth sanctioning later, and then I ask the question – what is the purpose of sanctioning in just four years, and the fact is that many judgments in infringement proceedings are just being passed before the end of the limitation period. On the other hand, I think an increase in that limitation period will affect the increase in the number of pending cases, but I'm going to do that a little later in detail. Finally, I think that there are also good changes relating to the execution of criminal penalties and that it is very good that the registers that are so much needed by our country are finally defined. However, if you had written DHSS and had given us the opportunity to help you create this law, we had a good will, but we didn't come across hearing from you, then you might have heard some of our arguments that would probably have been adopted, which is to establish a unit for the collection of criminal penalties, because the present system shows a lot of inadequacy in all its full scope, and only that penalty that is carried out in the breaking system is a punishment that makes sense. In view of the width of the fields to which the infringements apply and given the number of offences, it is necessary to centralise the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions in order to make it more effective, because you have a criminal procedure, especially if it lasts for four years, how long should it take, if, in the end, the offender avoids paying the penalty, and the news is heard very quickly, and then you come to the fact that it adversely affects the application of the rules. On the other hand, given how much money is charged for a system of criminal sanctions, one unit would not at all increase state spending by a single dinar, but would increase the total fees and revenues through an increase in the efficiency of the collection system, and would strengthen the legal system itself, the judiciary and the state itself. If you want, we at DHSS had a plan for something like that. We tried to reach you and failed. Better luck next time. Finally, I would like to point out one more thing, and this is that because of these new institutes proposed by this bill, DHSS will, of course, support this bill because of a bunch of these solutions, which are foreseen by such a bill. We will not blackmail our voice by accepting the amendment. You don't have to accept them, although there are a lot of serious amendments that require serious reading. In the light of an optional recommendation, I recommend you read them in detail, because I will not benefit from their adoption, Mr. Minister, but will benefit from the Ministry of Justice, and in the end the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have it. Thank you, since my time is running out, I will continue later because I will also use the time of my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21398	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21399	Madam First Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first feel the need to apologize to everyone concerned by the discussion at the end of the work day yesterday and to Mr. Jovanovic's sentence today, which was well-intentioned and had no doubt at all that at the same time and I heard and followed and exchanged, but I simply didn't want in any way. Thank you. Why am I saying this? The topic is this sentence that relaxes you, Madam Vice President, the subject is not only the laws but also the process of their adoption and the process of their adoption, the discussion. All together may be a good opportunity for this occasion when we have the law in front of us, it is a political obligation to say the URS will, of course, vote for all the points on the agenda, and I will vote for the law personally. Also, in the event that there is any technical failure by the Justice Committee, that late consent will, in that case, vote for the amendment SVM, and I hope that if I am well aware of the presentation of the MP from the LSV parliamentary group, we will be able to make the conditions for this parliamentary group, even though I have received a report from the Justice and Parliamentary Group DS, from the statement that we are about to hear, I suppose almost all the parliamentary groups to vote for this law. That's good because the function of the National Assembly except for this fundamental legislative one is also political and it often confuses people, but it is educational. With great pleasure today, I followed the first part of Ms Batić's presentation and within that we must really take care of something that the laymen do not need to know. For most things, we're laymen too. Every single one of us sitting here. It's good to know that there's a history and there's a tradition, that there's usually a right, but also to know that we don't live at that age. That's how we got to this law. We, and it stands out by the promoters, and the law has been working intensively for a year and a half to make people realize that it has nothing to do with politics, it's part of the overall but really accepted necessary changes in the framework and of our legislation and justice system. So, the part that has no dispute, since this is the area where you, Mr. Minister, have both found disputes and prejudice, and thank God you brought some yourself, I hope. I mean prejudice. And it's human. Why are we saying this? Today we are in a situation where essentially doctrined something that actually belonged to the administration system is going back to the pillar where it belongs. It's the judiciary. It is vital that we be careful about how we adopt, propose, and apply this law. I assume it was a lapus in Mr. Jovanovic's exposure. The law defines itself precisely, I'm talking about the Institute of Public Affairs, public-interest affairs, of course, the court, what you stand for, the court decides whether or not, but the proposal is that local self-government prescribes types of affairs, potentially. Please, I'm very comfortable with this area, and I'm proposing amendments and representatives of the ministry to think very carefully about what exactly the purpose of this institute is, because the URS and I are personally in favour, not only do we lower the level of usefulness of this work, so the public interest, not at the level of local self-government, at the level of the local community, and, of course, cannot be disturbed by the system, of course, that the court decides. The purpose of this institute and its practices in other countries is right in the middle of it, for jobs concerning that environment, because it serves overall relaxation. The law cannot regulate life, and it should be laid down in law by the kind of provision that will allow things to change in life. I'm going to give you an example, which doesn't affect any of you politically, we've had in our previous presentation. In the amazing biography of Balthazar Bogisic, we have all kinds of data, but we have the present. In the present time, his descendants run the Lexiographic Institute in Zagreb, teach at the Faculty of Law in Podgorica, and the good consequences of his activities feel where he was engaged, let's say, I'm not talking about the Russian capital right now, but where he was engaged in the Chisinev Regiment. Kishinev is today's capital, and where the regiment was, the regiment is today an independent state of Moldova. The fact that the reality has changed has no effect at all, it is Ms Batić and how rightly so, on the meaning of everything that Baltazar Bogisic has placed as a postulate. That applies to everything. This should be our educational obligation and these congregations when we pass laws, to make sure that we all stand behind what is undeniable. Once again, if I understand correctly, all the parliamentary groups that have so far expressed, which is almost a consensus, I don't know about the DSS parliamentary group, we'll hear very soon, which is kind of a fence, eventually, will vote for this law, because it's not about politics, it's about legacy for the future. So we round one system as independent or slightly more independent than it is now, to be fair. We unite all areas of justice and allow it to live and no longer be the subject of political discussions and debates, especially not to be the subject of abuse. There's my last apology for last night's tone. Citizens need to know that I didn't want to hurt the MPs, I didn't name anyone because I never did. I don't want to hurt anyone, as I don't name the names of the parties because I'm a serious man, so he hates me to follow when someone changed the party during the day, so it's easier for me to talk about what's the point, which is that we're all the peoples of the Parliament. I have drawn attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure are not abused from the point of view of what laymanically has one meaning, and legally the other, and that citizens do not get the impression that MPs are calling the chairman and calling him to break the Rules of Procedure, and the law, and the Constitution, which is on the verge of criminal responsibility. Some areas are arranged independently of our knowledge. The Rules of Procedure, with all our shortcomings, must be respected by making sure that he respects the basic principle, which is that the legal system in the Republic of Serbia is unique. There are hierarchies of specifics, there's a guide on how legal regulations are even proposed and written, and it's shared with the MPs. Citizens don't need to know, not all MPs need to know. Let me tell you something, if you go out and read to the citizens where you say -- here, why doesn't someone take the word and it says they can participate in the work. Let's forget politics. The fact that you can attend a session by some member of the Rules of Procedure does not give you any additional rights. You can attend a football game, but that doesn't mean you can run out into the field. Also, it doesn't mean that during cheerleading, you can't influence, so you influence the outcome of the game, but you don't play. Legal terms, no matter how many years we have in the last 20 years, floating terminology is present, for various reasons, not always political terms are introduced for which we have no defined meaning, and this is a confusion. The National Assembly’s professional service shall keep an account, chairing its information and jurisdiction. I ask the citizens not to pay attention to this kind of political debate that sounds like a legal argument. It does not occur to anyone in the National Assembly that, knowingly, no MP, however, positions, opposition, no professional service, no chairman, no ministers, violate the Rules of Procedure and the law during the adoption of the law. This is just a matter of harmonising the interpretation, and some things don't have to be solved, because they do. It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure whether or not an MP's notice is given if he pulls out a gun and shoots another MP... (President: Mr Markovic, while you are at the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to inform you that you are talking about the subject of the agenda. Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. So it's about the continuation of the discussion that was conducted yesterday, as I announced. Let me finish. Some things are not defined by the Rules of Procedure, because they are defined by other acts. There's no need for something that we agree on, what everyone cares about, to make a mistake. Here's a nice metaphor, because sometimes, as an older man, I can't sleep because I'm worried about the laws, because I'm worried about broken rights, sometimes there's a good game on TV. Tonight there was a direct transmission of Atletico Mineiro and Olympica, and on that occasion I found out that the area was also arranged, which probably everyone who was watching football didn't know, which is that if one team gets five red cards, the game is interrupted. This discussion can be interrupted at this hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21400	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly won't be as inventive and interesting as the previous speaker, but I certainly have to look back in one sentence at what the previous speaker was saying. Yesterday we did not deliberately take part in the debate on the Rules of Procedure because we felt that the formal conditions for holding the session were fully met, but we are pleased to have the presence of the President of the High Council of Justice, because the choice we are to discuss today opens up certain questions to which some answers should be given. When it comes to the draft law on violations, the area he regulates is extremely important because the majority of citizens are in the courts for the first time facing the judiciary. If it is to trust the media, every six-year-old citizen of Serbia has at least once been guilty, or misrepresented. One of the most important features of the infringement procedure is that it is fast and is efficient, which today, unfortunately, is not the case in Serbia. The illustration works, I'll just say one thing. The Belgrade Criminal Court held 232,000 cases in work in 2012. Of that number, 38,200 items were out of date. At the level of all Serbia, these statistics seem even different, not to say worse. Of the 881,500 items in operation 103,500 items are obsolete. This is really statistics that are worrying. To solve this problem, we need to first see what causes this problem. This law we're discussing today is a law that tries to solve this problem through the introduction of a series of new institutes. Indeed, some of these institutes are correcting the bill, while for some institutes and some of the solutions provided for in this bill, we question the justification for their introduction. The good thing and the good side of the law is certainly the introduction of a register of criminal sanctions imposed and a register of unpaid fines, not because of the reasons given in the bill, but because on the basis of a centralised electronic database, every judge will be able to know at all times whether the criminal person against whom the offence is being conducted has been liable earlier for some offence and whether any other infringement proceedings against him are ongoing. That's certainly the good part of this law. I would not agree with the argument given in the bill that these registers are intended to lead to more effective penalties. No, we can introduce two and three and ten registers, if we want, but it can't simply lead to that goal, because whether a certain penalty will be charged depends solely on the financial possibility of the one who is obliged to pay it. On the other hand, I also find it extremely good that we finally came to this law, for the first time, it seems to me that the area he regulates is the jurisdiction of the criminal courts. That wasn't the case until now. We have seen the authorities of the administration who have so far resolved certain infringements in the first degree, and therefore it is necessary to insist on this provision, which was introduced in the draft law, that all other laws, which prescribe the jurisdiction of certain authorities of the first-degree infringements, should this law be voted on by 1 March, it seems to me, in 2014. Here I deliberately and specifically apostrophe the Law on Public Procurement, which we recently adopted, which provides for the existence of a Republic Commission. I think it's called the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedure. Why am I particularly apostrophe of this law? Because citizens expect much from him when it comes to curbing corruption and I think, since we recently adopted it, that he should also be one of the laws to be compared to this text of the law by 1 March 2014. On the other hand, when it comes to the institutes envisioning this bill, which do not come across our approval, certainly one of the most important problems we have, when it comes to this bill, are the deadlines of limitations, i.e. increasing the deadlines of absolute obsolescence from two to four years old. You're saying that the relative limitation deadlines have been increased from one to two years because the misdemeanor courts have been given jurisdiction to resolve infringements in foreign, customs and other specific infringements, which I personally don't consider to be an excuse to extend the deadlines of absolute obsolescence. Why? Because crimes are not crimes and they are not so complex cases that they would be extended into four years. A violation, however he may be, one responsible and professional criminal judge can absolutely resolve it within two years. On the other hand, I think one of the most important, as I said at the outset, is the characteristic of a misdemeanor procedure precisely its speed and its efficiency. Can we say that a misdemeanor procedure will be effective if we give a certain criminal judge four years to decide whether the person who went through the red light committed an offence or whether, for example, the vehicle parked on the green surface of the offence or the violation of the dog's walk without a leash? I don't want to caricate, and don't take my exposure as such, but I really don't have any kind of understanding that the complexity and complexity of a misdemeanor procedure rises to astronomical heights. We have in the Criminal Code a criminal offence for which a prison sentence is prescribed for up to one year, or fine. The limitation period, it is true, is a relative limitation period within two years, but the limitation can also take place within that time limit, within two years, unless the proceedings are suspended, or if the deadlines are not interrupted. So, in criminal proceedings, we have a two-year limitation period for certain crimes. The old MPs will remember in the previous term when we talked about the Law on Prosecution, that one of the basic reasons why we changed that law is precisely the effectiveness of the conduct. Then we were told, then we were given the assurance that the aim of this law was to allow the first-degree litigation proceedings to last up to two years, in those most complicated, most complex cases. It's just that I can't accept this argument, that solving any offence, even if it was both tax and foreign and whatever, is more complex than solving a dispute in the whole civil law area. I don't think that argument just stands. On the other hand, I'm afraid, if this solution is adopted, that we'll be in a situation where the misdemeanor courts will work even slower and that the misdemeanor proceedings will be further delayed. Somehow it seems to me that when a problem arises, we don't go the right way to analyze the cause of the problem. Wasn't it appropriate and better that we analyzed the situation that says in what conditions the wrongdoers are doing today, how many cases each of the wrongdoers are present, are the misdemeanors and misdemeanors equally burdened by the number and complexity of the case? At the very least, why not say whether the solution by which the misdemeanors are being leveled with all other judges in Serbia has made a solution? I'm not expressing my position here, I'm just talking about a comprehensive approach to an analysis of the problem that led to 46% of the cases being out of date in broken courts. I'm sorry for the depression, but I have to say this case reminds me incredibly of an affair with aflatoxin. Instead of solving the problem, we increase the aflatoxin level from 0.05 to 0.5 micrograms per liter, and we think that's the only way to solve the problem. It's just that I don't think it's going to solve the problem that way, but we're going to have an additional increase in it. Furthermore, when it comes to the level of penalties proposed, I agree with you that this solution has been prescribed from the previous law, but I disagree with you in that I do not consider these penalties to be adequate today, that these penalties are today unrealistically high and that they are not appropriate to the current economic situation. It wasn't the same when people lived in 2005 or 2006 when the law was passed. And you know that it was much better to live than it is to live today. I simply feel that this solution is not appropriate in the law and that it was necessary to change it. I'm afraid we'll get into a situation very quickly that a large number of citizens won't be able to pay fines and that's when we'll get to an even bigger problem. I read somewhere that this law is expected to increase the payment of fines by 100 percent. If I'm not mistaken, the success of the payment of fines today seems to me, it doesn't reach 20%, and I think that's what you said in the opening statement. If all of this is added to one trend that is present today, which is that the number of fines imposed in a large percentage is replaced by a prison sentence, then I fear that the bill's intention, which concerns the payment of fines, will not be met and will not be achieved. If I'm not mistaken, that's the information I found somewhere, from the beginning of the year to the beginning of June more than 5,000 fines were replaced by prison. It's a sad thing to say, but most citizens really feel it's easier to spend their sentence in a prison where they have absolutely free accommodations, where they have three regular meals and where no one is forcing them to think about how they're going to pay for something without knowing that something can't pay for anything. If I add one more piece of information to all of this that the number of those who have been in prison for the last three years or who have changed or replaced the fine with a huge amount of money, and if I translate it into a number of days, then it turns out that in the last few years 130,000 days have been spent in prisons. You know a lot better than I do how much this costs the state. That's one million and 300,000 euros, so many countries only funded the stay of a person in prison. I fear that by not changing and not reducing fines, or the amount of fines prescribed, this percentage will be even higher. Personally, I think that we can get out of this situation by comparing the amount of fines to the real real and real paying power of every citizen, rather than having the state face an even greater problem and an even greater loss. I don't think anyone should be the goal of punishing a poor citizen literally leading to the edge of their existence. I guess the purpose of the punishment is to prevent and to influence, that is, to re-evaluate unconscious citizens so that they no longer commit crimes. When it comes to a criminal order, I agree with you that he will significantly dissipate the work of the courts and that he will significantly reduce the number of cases that the criminal courts are going to debate, but I cannot justify the fact that the purpose of the punishment in these offences, in which the infringement proceedings are initiated by issuing a criminal order, is to be to pour the money into the budget. If we look at it in the context of increasing the discretionary powers of the police, I am concerned that perhaps a payment order, which reminds you of the mandate, could be the sole means to fill the budget. I'm just going to notice as a driver something that I've been seeing lately, which is that already today most drivers face one frequent charge for violations that depend exclusively on an officer's free assessment, of his discretionary powers that don't have to be backed up by certain factual evidence. Here, I'll give you one example. Lately, there has been an increased and increased payment of fines to drivers who have not been prescribed to glue traffic registration into the right corner of the windscreen. So, if you accidentally taped that sticker wrong, the policeman has the right to give you a fine of 3,000 dinars. It's not the only offense. You have another offense that depends directly and exclusively on the arbitrary decision-making of a police officer. It's a violation that says you didn't follow police orders, but you got involved in traffic past his license. A police officer can give a man a sentence of 15 to 30,000 dinars. Now look at this third one, which directly depends only and exclusively on the arbitrary decision-making of a police officer. He can stop you and say: "You are tired, you are not to drive today, and you are to be charged with a misdemeanor of 15 thousand dinars on the spot." I can only imagine the percentage of the frequency of payment of such fines will be increased the moment the criminal order is brought to life. In the end, I'll just say one thing about the motion for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected. After all the problems with re-election of judges and prosecutors that we as a society, as a state, faced and faced, I expected that in the future we would not face even the slightest doubt as to the correctness of the judge's choice. This means that some of the questions in the past are irresistibly raised today, perhaps even in the same form. We don't get it, this is where we get the decision, are the criteria that are supposed to be chosen by the judges applied? What is it that these 16 candidates stand out from the other 432 candidates who applied to the competition, except as the first members of the Judicial Academy for that? Are the criteria of competence and dignity and competence for all candidates in accordance with the Law on Judges and are they applied in accordance with the Decision establishing the criteria and criteria for the election? I was also wondering if the High Council of the Judiciary had the opportunity to determine the quality of each candidate's quality based on the exact number of points, or whether he was the one to be found on the list of 16 people proposed to us today for the election? Did the representatives of the High Council of the Court of Justice of this candidate in the Decision propose to us exclusively as a flow water heater based on a selection that has already been carried out by some at the Judicial Academy? I'm afraid the Law on Judges in its original form hasn't even been applied, but it's been kind of neglected here and that more than 400 candidates who reported to the competition for some completely unwarranted reason have been disqualified. I also don't think it's a good idea that this first choice of judges is followed by a negative otter of the expert public, and primarily by expert judge or prosecutoral assistants. That, of course, is not good for their careers, because it's not good for you to start a career, an honorable profession like this. On the other hand, I also have to say that I am expressing my concern that this election will have a much wider negative situation because it reminds me irresistibly of the continuation of a worse earlier re-election of judges. Mr. Minister, yesterday in the debate you said that the Law on the Justice Academy is a "lex specialis". No, he's not a Lex specialis. We never brought him as a Lex specialis. If "lex specialis" then the High Judicial Council would have the absolute right to do what it does, to give priority to the Law on the Judicial Academy, and to put entirely aside the Law on Judges. Then the thing would be totally legal, but it's not like this. The "Lex Specialis" Law on the Judicial Academy is not and in this case I believe that this choice that we are discussing today will not come up with a good answer and a good reception with the professional public, that it will be another problem that we will face in judicial reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21402	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Minister, we have a few points of the agenda today. One of these points of the agenda is the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, whose proposing is the President of the Republic, but there is no proposing representative. The proof that we were right yesterday is that at least today we have a representative of the High Council of Justice here, since we are also talking about the choice of judges. Whether or not the President of the Republic has submitted this proposal seriously, we cannot know. They didn't send anyone here to propose. Does that mean they're withdrawing the proposal, since there's no one to explain the proposal? We can only guess that. Today, we're also on the agenda of the Violents Act. I must say that it is good that the Ministry continued the concept of judicial reform by the previous government and that this law on violations absolutely supports what was done in reform and infringing legislation and justice in general since 2008. In 2008, the Law on Judges, the Law on the Regulation of Courts was passed and mistrials were introduced instead of the Authority of Administration. I think it's a good solution and this law supports one such decision. It is much better and simply necessary for independent bodies, such as courts, to decide the criminal court on penalties against citizens, rather than the authorities of the administration, as before, until in this area we have made a reform. I am glad that this has come into practice, as I am glad that it has lived in the practice and function of the Judicial Academy, which we have also established in the past term, as private perpetrators do, and I hope that the notaries, which we have introduced by law in the previous term, will live in practice and begin to work. This law has some solid solutions, but we also have big objections to this law. Those remarks can be removed, if you accept amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group and other parliamentary groups of the opposition, as I hear from these discussions, have submitted similar amendments. I think it is important and therefore I ask all my fellow Members to read the amendments and other parliamentary groups and that it is important that we try to improve this text of the law. If the amendments are accepted, the citizens will get a good law. If they're not accepted, I think we're going to be facing a major shortage in the law. First, I'm going to talk about some things that are good solutions to this law, which I don't think have been explained enough here, mostly because of the citizens. What is it that citizens can expect by passing a new law? We are all witnessing that many misdemeanors have become obsolete because citizens have avoided receiving a call from a criminal court or have avoided receiving certain submissions. Now, this law of delivery has been resolved in a better way, but I think we have a duty to tell the citizens that this delivery will be done in the future, that they know. After all, we are passing laws because of citizens and it is not enough just to professionally discuss a particular topic, but to bring them closer to what new legal solutions are. In the future, delivery will be possible to the citizens of the house, therefore, in their apartments. They can take the invitation personally, that was before, but they can also receive members of their family households, if they are of age. If someone refuses reception, it is possible that the invitation is impaled to his door and will be considered an orderly delivery. Also, it is possible now and in a misdemeanor procedure to make calls to the workplace, so a caller or any other service which the infringement courts can now hire or by mail to receive a call to your workplace, in your office, and that call will be considered to be neatly delivered. There is another newspaper, and it is an electronic delivery, in specific cases that will be provided by law. All of this tells us that by introducing such an institute, by changing the supply institute, we will have a more efficient infringement procedure and fewer possibilities for obsolescence in a misdemeanor procedure. On the other hand, a new institute was brought in, it's a violation order. I think we're obliged to say something more about that, too. The criminal order implies that a fixed sentence, which has been designated for a particular offence, can be paid within eight days and if paid within eight days, half of the sentence is paid. If you don't pay within eight days, but you break that deadline, you'll be required to pay the entire sentence. Of course, if one of the citizens thinks he didn't commit a crime at all, he can address a criminal court with that criminal order, a payment order, and initiate proceedings before the court, where he will prove that he did not, in fact, commit the offence. What's good about this institute is that we're going to have a lot less cases in court. So the easiest violations for which there is a fixed sentence will end before the court, we will avoid an expensive trial. In this way, we will have fewer cases in front of the criminal court, and the criminal court will be able to work more effectively and faster. So far, as far as we can tell from the statistics, the inflow of the case is overcome by the criminal court and a little over the inflow. It decreases in 2012 the number of old cases, but in this way, I expect that the number of cases will be further reduced. Of course, I have to warn all those who bring criminal penalties, that those penalties can't be great. What does that mean? We are in an economic crisis, and if you have major criminal penalties, including one that can only be paid half, if that punishment is huge, a large number of citizens will not be able to pay half the fine. Then we'll have discrimination, which means those who have money, they pay half, and those who don't have the money to pay even that half, they have to pay the full penalty. I appeal to all those who bring a fixed sentence, that the fixed penalty should not be greater than 5,000, 6,000, 7,000 dinars. Then it makes sense to pay half the fine that's 3,000, 4,000 dinars, but if the fine is 50,000 dinars, so there's no one to pay 25,000 dinars, and the one who doesn't, in 15 days, 50,000 dinars. I ask you to discuss it and communicate it, and when you explain these new solutions legally and, of course, in communication with those who bring punishment. In addition to these good things, there are two major objections that we have expressed through the amendments. The first major objection to this law is to change the deadlines of limitations. I think it's completely irresponsible and completely unfounded that we're extending the deadlines for obsolescence and the initiation of a misdemeanor procedure and at all the conduct and duration of a misdemeanor procedure. If the authority that initiates the misdemeanor procedure is unable to decide within a year whether to move on to a red light to initiate a misdemeanor against a citizen, then it should not trigger it. So, the deadline in this country, since we've all known about the violations in this country, has been one year to launch, two years is absolute obsolescence, so, after two years, you can't run the procedure anymore. Guys, is it enough for two years to convict someone for a felony? I think it's more than enough. We can't control someone who's ineffective and we can't rule someone who's incompetent. If our authorities are unable to initiate proceedings and a criminal court incapacitated in two years, then let's change the whole concept. Why do we need a court that condemns you after four years for turning to red light? So it's not about crimes, it's about the easiest offenses for the citizens, so that's the offenses in two years and so it's gonna have to be over. On the one hand, we talked about efficiency. The reason for the extension of the obsolescence stated in the explanation is that the courts cannot arrive, so that they become obsolete in the execution of the sentence. If we've brought in some new institutes to speed up the misdemeanor process, then there's no reason to argue that this law will lead to a more effective process. Then there's no reason for us to prolong old age. My impression is that if we extend it to four years, we'll have a situation where law enforcement courts pull cases the way they might have used to work before they were court, because they were the authorities of the administration. Don't let that happen. I appeal to all my colleagues, so, I've seen, from opposition MPs' benches, everyone has similar amendments. I also appeal to colleagues who are in the ruling majority to accept the amendments and return the deadlines – one year and an absolute age - two years. For specific cases, okay. A special law can prescribe a time for obsolescence. It shouldn't be up to five years, as you put it. It's better if it's up to three years. You have such amendments from some parliamentary groups. Think about adopting it. If we want an effective judiciary, that pressure that the case has to end in two years is the most effective means that the court really does the best it can and can. The second major complaint concerns the case against minor perpetrators. We've given a large number of amendments in this section. I don't think the lawmakers were thinking about the specificity of minors, and I don't think they were thinking about the consequences of juvenile prison when they predicted a juvenile prison sentence. I think the sentence of juvenile prison is absolutely unacceptable in a misdemeanor procedure. Juvenile prison is pronounced for the most serious crimes committed by minors. It could be murder, it could be murder. There shouldn't be a juvenile prison for violations. On the other hand, the effect of prison, those negative effects of prison, especially in minors, will lead to a much greater return to criminal activity. There are two very specific reasons why in our system it is completely inadmissible. The first reason is that we don't have a special department in a criminal court, who went through special training to judge any minors at all. We have it when it comes to criminality, we still don't have it for a crime. Don't let anyone who hasn't passed special training decide that a minor can be put in jail. The second thing, minors under all international conventions must maintain a sentence exclusively in prison for minors. There is no such prison in Serbia. There's a Juvenile Office in Valjev. Currently in Valjev there are 30 people who are sentenced as minors, one of whom is now a minor, and all others have become adult in the meantime. They're convicted of the most serious crimes, and besides them, there are over a hundred minors, who are also convicted as a full-time adult, because we don't have a facility where only minors can be held. Think about it one more time, is it normal, is it good, for a minor to be convicted of a crime to be with those convicted of a murder and a serious murder, because he's sitting in prison with him? So that's unacceptable. We've come up with a proposal that you can't impose a fine on a minor who's unemployed, has nothing to pay for, and he won't pay, and there's no point, he's unemployed, he doesn't have money. So, if the employees are okay, if they're not employees, they can't just execute that sentence, I think it's pointless. There's one, I mean a mistake in the law, and that's where it says it's justified that the case against minors is classified, and on the other hand you have a public verdict. So that should change, you can't publicly sentence a minor. There are a few more things that we have proposed for amendments to change, and we will talk about that when we talk about amendments. As for the second subject, the choice of judges, I have to express the satisfaction of having lived in the practice of the Judicial Academy, and what people who are proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary are persons who have passed the Judicial Academy, I think fourteen of the sixteen, I guess there were no more of those who passed the Judicial Academy when the number is not fulfilled, we do not have that explained, as some of my colleagues have said. It's a good thing the Judicial Academy is working, it's a good thing that members of the Judicial Academy are involved in the justice system. I think the prosecutors, too, mostly all the candidates have passed the Justice Academy. That's good, and that represents some assurance that their knowledge, their expertise, their ability to do the most responsible work within the justice system has been checked. So, the Judicial Academy has its function. I think it is the best practice that exists in the European Union, which is that in this system of election of judges, the Judicial Academy plays an important role. What, of course, when we talk about judges, I worry about, which is that you have no answer to the new situation in the past year. We are all witnesses that the Constitutional Court brought back 580 judges, who had not passed the election a year ago, whom the High Council of the Court considered to be unworthy or unprofessional. They are all now returned, without any criteria and not even respected by the reasoning of the Constitutional Court decision, that we should in any way examine whether they really deserve to be in the judicial system, or not. So this brings us to the point that even those who may have been convicted of some crimes, or some actions against them, are being conducted, that they are all judges. You have to give answers to these questions. It's been a year since they've been returned, a year since you've been in the Justice Department, that's what you've been silent about. Why don't you shut up, I don't know? Is it because of the politics, whether in the election campaign many of them spoke, or did you say they joined the SNS, I don't know, but I know we have a third of the judges more than we had. So, the election was 1,800, if we don't know the judges for the violations, now it's back 580, and I don't see that we have a smaller number of old cases, I don't see that we have a more effective trial. My impression is that the case in 2013 is slower than it was in 2012. What are these people doing? Do they work or don't work? They're taking over the items, or they're not taking over the items? Is it possible when you add 600 to 1,800, that nothing changes? So, there's been talk that there's not enough number of judges, that we should increase the number. Here, we've increased the number and nothing's changed. So what are these people doing and how are you going to determine which one of them should remain in the judiciary and which one should not? Those are the answers you have to give us. Last topic, the selection of candidates for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. We don't have a proposing representative, as I said, we have a biography of candidates. The paper said a lot about that candidate. What I can say is that I have the impression that independent institutions are politicizing. I don't know if this lady who's a proposed member of the political party, I don't think she's, I haven't seen her anywhere, but what she says on the Chukarica municipality site is that she's the deputy president of the Municipal Election Commission, on the proposal of the Serbian Progressive Party. So, otherwise, when members of municipal election committees are elected, it must be known on whose proposal they are elected and their name must stand the name of the party, in order to know whether a party has a majority, or does not have a majority among the members of the municipal electoral commission. So, we are proposing to someone who has been delegated by the Serbian Progressive Party to the electoral commission, which is someone who is responsible for conducting the elections, now you are proposing to the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee to read and decide on election reports, therefore, financial reports on campaign financing. I think it's a serious conflict of interest, and I think it violates the credibility of an independent body. Take care of it because my impression is that it will gradually be introduced into all the independent organs and authorities and independent organs by people who are party colored, and I think it's a step back in all the reforms we've implemented over the past years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21404	Thank you. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, a replica on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could accept that what has now been said has been said by another political party, but I cannot accept from the DS. Here is how the prosecutors and judges were elected in the territory of the Great Court in Pozarevec, i.e. the General Court in Pozarevec, and the rest of the basic courts in Braničevsky County. I think it's just the basic court in Fireman. They've been sitting there for three thugs. One of the presidents of the DS District Committee, otherwise a lawyer who has frozen his status as a lawyer, is another lawyer and is active, and the third lawyer and president of the Supreme Court is in an effort and everyone from the DS, so they caught a list in a restaurant called "The Pere Napoleon" in Pozarevec after the jargon, and along with an easy conversation they crossed out, correspondence, appointed and appointed judges. That's how it was, gentlemen, while you were in power. When it comes to candidates proposed by the President of the Republic. I didn't see Boris Tadic propose the governor of the NBS, Mr. Shoskovic. I didn't even see him propose other candidates for other functions proposed by the Constitution by the President of the Republic of Serbia or by law. And about politicization, don't just talk about it. So everyone else is right. We also accept that when it comes to political function someone can also be a member of the political party, but working bodies for the conduct of local elections cannot possibly be political functions. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21406	Thank you. Nenad Konstantinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21407	Comrade Arsic, what you're saying, I don't know how you know. What you should know is that judges cannot be members of political parties and are not members of political parties. So it's impossible in your story that some judge is a member of the DS trying, I don't know what kind of president, etc. So it just can't be true. So I ask you to refrain from misleading the citizens. As to whether members, not members, may be party members, must not be party members, but they are all proposed on behalf of some political party and by some political party, and this lady is proposed by the SNS, which means she obviously has some contact and connection with the SNS. That's not why he should be at the Anti-Corruption Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21408	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21409	I don't want to talk much right now, maybe a few sentences. If all of this is true what you say, then explain to me how a lawyer with a 61-year-old life suddenly becomes a judge of the Great Court of Fireman? So he's that professional? So no one else has met the conditions, but he has fulfilled the conditions? You fired other judges, and you appointed lawyers. Don't say you didn't know about this, it was elected by the Serbian Parliament here. He just made one mistake, couldn't realize his ambition to be the President of the High Court in Pogorevec, because his office as judge was still not permanent. So much for how professional he is. He didn't even know how to become President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21410	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21411	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues from the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few hours ago here at the National Assembly, Mr. File, and has shown us this honor and has given our Parliament an inspiring speech and has repeatedly praised the work of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Selakovic and his team, in terms of judicial reform, legislation, and I think it was a nice way to start today, which we continue by discussing a very important law, the Law of Infractions, a law which is a system law and a law which, unfortunately, as my colleagues and colleagues have said before me, is a law that most often meets our citizens. For the sake of truth and correctness, I think it should be mentioned that the writing of this law began the previous Ministry of Justice. The task force was formed by the previous justice minister, and in the meantime, there has been a change and Minister Selakovic has assessed with full right to continue to draft this law, only instead of amending and supplementing we have a completely new law, as a consequence of the fact that a whole series of other laws that have reformed, particularly the processive, the Serbian judiciary system, have been adopted in the meantime, changes and additions to the CAP and the law on the confiscation of property, resulting from a criminal act. The Law on traffic security on roads has recently been amended, so when this is brought together with the recently adopted Strategy for Justice Reform, and the fact that the National Assembly adopted a Resolution on Legislative Policy, which was proposed by 25 MPs, members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, then we come to the conclusion that the adoption of a new law on infringements was inevitable. What is well mentioned here, to make it clear to us also to non-legislators, is that this law introduces a whole series of quality newspapers into the violation system of the Republic of Serbia. I'd start with protective measures, 13 or 14 protective measures are foreseen by this law, and citizens will always find it interesting to know that the protective measures are the confiscation of the case. Here's an example from some everyday practice. It's always around New Year's Eve that we see a lot of kids on our streets hurting firecrackers. Now, when some drug dealer finds the firecrackers, those firecrackers will be taken away. We also have protective measures such as those introduced, or preserved from before and from the previous draft of the one that was made at the time of the previous Justice Ministry, we have measures, for example, bans on coastal activity. Also, a ban on the performance of legal persons has been imposed, such as the mandatory treatment of persons who are ill with certain addictions, especially alcoholism. We also have mandatory treatment measures in some other institutions. Let's say it's interesting, and in practice it should be more frequent to apply the ban on keeping domestic animals because we see that sometimes unconscious citizens don't keep their dangerous dogs in the right way. Here, again, I'm giving an example from someone, let's say, everyday life. One of the special measures that exist and the confiscation of the benefits arising from the committing of the offence, is the measure that is, of course, meant if someone committed the offence earned something that was not to be earned, something that was illegally acquired, then in that case it should be taken away. I don't mind talking louder, but I'd like to ask. I thank you, but I did listen while others were talking. What is most important in the reforms that are now being implemented are some absolute newspapers in our misdemeanour process. It's been said a lot of times here, but I have to do it again for the citizens who are looking at this to mention the idea of a payment order. In order for the citizens to understand what this is about, I am giving it to the simplest case that I unfortunately believe has happened to all of us. Whoever was driving the car a little faster than he was allowed, which certainly isn't smart, or whoever sat in the car and didn't tie his seat belt, and it certainly wasn't smart, so far he was, if he was stopped by the police, faced with having to go to a misdemeanor court, that he had to waste time in a misdemeanor procedure even though he and everyone knew that such a violation had been committed. Now, citizens are given the possibility that if they want to execute one species, conditionally we say, settlements, which is to pay half the fine, pay 50% of the amount, and to avoid, within some of these most often, the costs of conducting a court procedure, avoid that inconvenience that they have to go to waste time in criminal courts. At the end of the line, it is one good measure that will largely save the costs of conducting the procedure itself, saving the costs of the state, will no longer have to be given to such things as the conduct of the infringement procedure. It was also introduced to keep a single record of penalties imposed in criminal proceedings. It is again something that exists everywhere in Europe, there is also in Croatia, there is parallel, legally, practically in every modern country of the world, so it is logical, of course, that especially a judge who conducts a misdemeanour procedure, can see on the basis of an electronic record whether a sanction has already been imposed against someone, whether a fine has already been imposed in a misdemeanour procedure and in such a way that it can also decide on the possible measures to be applied in a concrete procedure. Of course, it is predicted that, according to minors, and here children under the age of 14, can not conduct a misdemeanor procedure, for children aged 14 to 18, to some extent a misdemeanor procedure will be conducted, or depending on whether harm has been done or whether any other circumstances have been fulfilled will be answered by parents. They are fully protected and the rights of damaged persons, they have active participation in the process, they can seek compensation for damages, they can actively participate in proving the criminal liability of the offender, they can file a complaint, they can also participate, in one word, in accordance with European standards, and the rights of damaged persons are protected. Of course, the rights of persons against whom a misdemeanour is conducted are protected, especially important for members of national minorities, that the law very clearly foresees the use of the official language, the use of the Latin letter, the use of language and national minorities, but other languages with the help of the translator, if necessary. Anyone participating in a misdemeanor procedure will have the right to defend himself or to hire a lawyer, all the rights required by European standards, of course, are protected by this. When we add all this together, then it is clear that even after the public debates which the Ministry of Justice has already traditionally organised, we have heard that there was a big public debate, but also a special public debate at the request of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which is of course for any praise that public debates are being organised, and, of course, at the same time, some kind of debate is being organised via the Internet, it is clear that this law has already received one of the broadest support and citizens. Of course, in the day of voting, we expect the widest support of the MPs. Further support for this law also deserves because no specific means will be necessary for its implementation. The funds have already been provided in the budget. It is good and we support it in that sense, the Ministry of Justice, which has not increased the level of punishment. So we still have a range of penalties from the lowest to the highest, as it was a few years ago. It is good and it is good to think about our citizens who have a lot to pay and 3,000 for an unrelated belt, although the law must also be respected in this regard. It is good that an alternative sanctions system has been introduced in terms of working in the general useful social interest. It's a good thing there's a substitute for punishment, because why would it be paid between five and 150 thousand dinars if it could be spent in community service from 20 to 360? It's for our poor citizens certainly good. Because if they already have to pay the fine, and whoever's driving too fast has to pay, it's a legal state, then it's better to do it through socio-helpful work than to separate itself from the rather modest money available to our families anyway. It is good that this law itself will speed up, especially by changing the rules on delivery, where it will no longer be able to avoid the reception of those blue envelopes, it will be able to be delivered in the workplace, it will be able to be delivered to other places where a particular person is expected to be found. This will speed up the process and all of these accelerations of the process and all of those rights specifically granted to persons participating in the procedure are good for legal certainty. The only thing I see from the number of amendments that have arrived, the law is obviously not going to get perhaps the broadest support, because the fact that an extended period of limitations has been extended. Of course, we can have understanding of judges who are burdened and do very responsible work, but if, for example, a citizen does not want to pay a payment order, he wants to prove his guilt, or he is proving his innocence in court, then in that case it should be possible to do so within a reasonable period of time, and we believe that for two years and so far it has been quite reasonable. Of course, about 100 amendments have been submitted to this law so far, which is evidence and construction of work. Many amendments have also been tabled by SNS MPs, many amendments are identical, so I have no doubt that the minister of justice, as so far, will carefully study the amendments, especially amendments relating to limitations and thus contribute to making this law even more quality and perhaps adopted unanimously in the Voting Day. As for the motion to elect judges and prosecutors, I will take advantage of the opportunity to inform both the minister and the distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors that the proposals that have arrived unanimously have been voted and supported at the meeting of the relevant Justice Committee. Also, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, whose head I am, unanimously supported these proposals. In one word, there is no doubt, especially after these two committees put in place, that the proposal given by VSS and DVT were made after one serious analysis, following a serious study of biography. The biographies of the proposed judges and prosecutors are extremely high-quality and we think they're really the best candidates. There is no dispute in the day of voting that these candidates will also receive maximum support in the National Assembly. The same applies to the candidate for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee proposed by the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. It is truly inappropriate to discuss here whether Colaric was a member here or there on election committees. I think that in the first place we should mention that she is our colleague, that she has mastered, that she has doctored, that she works at the Police Academy as an emergency professor, and I think that's exactly the kind of thing we should bring to the first category, as we should first point out that candidates for the judge and the prosecutors are also very impressive biographies, and that they have completed adequate additional training at the Judiciary Academy. All of this should be fully supported, and especially should be supported because of the attitude of the domestic public but also the attitude of the EU. In talks with EU experts, we even hear that the Judicial Academy may, in some future, need to find its place in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To conclude, there is no doubt that in the vote of the SNS and the coalitions gathered around the SNS will also vote for the proposed law as well as for the proposed decisions on the election of judges, prosecutors, or member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. There is no doubt that the amendments will be both on the Committee on Justice and on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and on the Legislatives, that we will present to the Minister those most qualitative amendments, such as amendments concerning improving the situation of minors in the infringement procedure, particularly with regard to the publication of the judgment. There are other good amendments, but, definitely, the law as such obviously received the support of the highest public, received support and professional public, and we also see by the discussions that it has received one quite broad support in the National Assembly. All this proves is that the law is quality, to the same extent as the quality and proposals for selecting judges, prosecutors, or counterpart Kolaric as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21412	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll continue our work at 3:10 p.m. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. We're moving on to the speaker list. Riza Halimi, she's not here. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21414	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors, the Honorable Representative of the High Council of the judiciary, the representative of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we are particularly pleased to have a representative of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary here today. If that were the case yesterday, I think we'd have discussed it a lot faster yesterday, and we wouldn't have a dilemma about the motion for a decision on the choice of judges on the agenda today. You, Mr. Minister, read yesterday in your opening statement the explanation of the proposed law on violations, and here you told us the fact that the previous justice minister formed a working group that started and drafted a draft new law on violations that is on the agenda today. You were talking about the fact that misdemeanor courts receive about 600,000 cases annually, that the number of cases that have not been processed is about a million cases a year. Also, according to the law, about 53% of these items in the area of the Traffic Safety Act, 10% of the cases are related to public order and peace. What we did not have the opportunity to read in an explanation and I believe that you will be able to answer that question – how many of these millions of cases refer to violations committed by natural persons, i.e. citizens of this country, how many cases have been committed by entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, are there cases related to budget users and state authorities? Regardless of the fact that you said in your statement yesterday that the proposed law did not increase the amount of penalties for violations, that you left the same amount that existed in the previous law, we believe that the penalties are very large. The penalties for natural persons ranged from five thousand to 150 thousand dinars. Regardless of the fact that you said, that there was inflation in the meantime, and that you didn't want to make a proposal to increase those penalties for violations, we believe that citizens in this country today are much worse alive and worse than the previous year, or four years ago. The fact that this is true also says that today we have many more unemployed people, that 11 billion euros promised in a pre-election campaign by the president of the state, that many people live at the border of existence. When you say "punishment" for a physical face from five thousand to 150 thousand, it's very high. Regardless of the fact that you're introducing a criminal order with this law, where you're giving the possibility of a citizen of this country paying half the fine, such penalties are still high for our citizens. For example, if you parking badly on the public surface, the penalties are between two and a half thousand and 75 thousand dinars. It is clear, ministers, that citizens who do not receive salaries, or those who receive a salary of 20,000 dinars, that if they receive a fine of 75 or 50,000 dinars on that basis would rather choose a prison than pay the fine. Not because they don't want to pay her, but because they don't have where to pay her from. Especially since we know that the electricity in August will accumulate by 11%, that all the prices and food and other products have been collected, and the citizens will simply choose a prison sentence, rather than be defined as withdrawing money from their poor wallet and paying the penalty for the offence, because they do not have such money. That is why we believe that you, as Government, need to support and accept the LDP amendment, which proposes to reduce the fines under this Violation Act. Why did I ask you, how many tickets are there from those millions of cases? Because I am absolutely convinced that the largest number of such penalties is against the individuals and the citizens. That it's a very small number, and maybe there aren't any, penalties to be paid by the state authorities or, for example, by the state authorities. a restructuring company. You, as minister, have no right to interfere with the jurisdiction of the court, but you are also the minister of justice and the minister of state administration and you are in charge of the work of the state administration. Unless, for example, someone does not comply with the Accounting and Audit Act, such a thing is intended for a criminal sentence. Now, the request for a misdemeanor is filed for example. State authorities. Do you, Minister, have any insight into whether anyone has ever written a criminal sentence, for example? RTB Bor, because he doesn't respect the Accounting and Audit Act? If such a punishment is not written for a restructuring company, then why should the citizens of this country be the only ones who need to pay the fines? You will agree, ministers, that many schools in Serbia are in a blockade. For reasons that many local self - administrations, for example, do not have enough resources to pay those monthly costs for current repairs or maintenance or for some other reasons. These same schools are subject to this same law, and they need to pay for example. Infringement penalties when they do not have, for example, A good electrical installation or a thunderbolt, and they won't be able to do it. We believe that the law requires you to reduce, accept the amendment and reduce the amount of fines provided for in this law on infringements. You didn't tell us anything in the opening statement, in what conditions judges for violations do. Are the conditions regarding equipment, space, adequate for their work? You will agree that regardless of the fact that this assembly will pass a law on violations, judges should have some basic conditions for better quality and better work. I know Ministers, you visit courts. I don't think he's just in the election campaign, but he certainly is in the election campaign. You were, for example. In Zajcar, a month and a half ago, right? I'm sure you've had a chance to see what conditions the judges are working on there. At that time, all government ministers were in Zajecar, so I expected that some of the government's sessions would be held there. Since local elections in Negotin are coming soon, I believe you will visit the Criminal Court in Negotina and the Basic and Higher Court, and then you will surely visit Bor, because there are local elections. In that sense, you should tell us what conditions judges do for violations, not inform yourself about the work of courts and conditions only when elections are held. It is bad that the limit of limitations increases, and the fact is that this law has one contradiction to obsolescence, in relation to the Public Procurement Act, and does not allow them to decide in the first degree, for example. State bodies such as The Republic Commission for the Protection of Offerer's Rights. You're a member of the party who talked so much about the Public Procurement Act, so I'm surprised you made such a mistake that we now have the Public Procurement Act, which prescribes one thing, and this law of violations is quite another. As for the decision and the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency by the president of the state, we really do not think it is right for President Nikolic, a former member of the SNS, to propose to this parliament and this Assembly a candidate who was before the SNS a member of the municipal electoral commission. Whether it's a member of the SNS or just a SNS proposal, it suggests some closeness with the SNS, and you will agree, Minister, that the Anti-Corruption Agency should be independent in its work. You, as well as the current first Deputy Prime Minister, are constantly talking about fighting corruption. That is why we find it really inadmissible for the President of the Republic of Parliament to propose someone to be a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency who is close to the SNS. As far as the Supreme Council's proposal to elect judges is concerned, we have had the opportunity to see that the Supreme Council of the judiciary has opened a competition for the selection of 15 studies. 447 reported to the competition, is that right, 15 of those who passed the Judicial Academy? Yesterday no one here was able to answer the question – how is it possible for the Supreme Council of the Judiciary to call a competition for 15 judges, and then propose to the Assembly that we choose 16? It really doesn't make sense to us how it happened. In any institution, for example at school, that you have a vacant place for two professors of Serbian language and literature, and you call a competition for only one, you cannot receive two. You can't have two cleaners if you've called a competition for one. Is it possible, then, that you, as Supreme Council of the Judiciary of Parliament, would suggest to us MPs that we elect 16 judges, and you asked for a competition of 15? You've only had 15 candidates with this judicial academy, haven't you? So, 15 documentation, since they have priority over the other candidates, you should have reviewed it. Is it possible that the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary were not able to verify that 15 candidates are within, are they meeting all the conditions, but that after the election of 15 judges, after seven determine that another candidate as meeting the conditions, so there is room in Novi Sad, and we will propose it too? What about that candidate who also has a judicial academy that's not on this list? Has the Supreme Council of the Judiciary determined whether it is possible that this candidate could not fill out the application form properly, so you did not consider him? I really think that the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and especially these judges who are elected for the first time, should respect the law. If you made a decision on 15 judges as the Supreme Council of the judiciary, such a decision should have reached parliament. You could also call a competition after that for another judge, if you have vacant seats, and receive someone else, but the mistakes of the Supreme Council of the judiciary cannot be corrected by us MPs and we have no right to such a thing. Since you're the promoter, I suggest you take this point out of the agenda, because I don't know how the rest of us sitting in this room, who aren't judges, could have and had the right to decide and vote for 16 and the contest was for 15, especially what really raises suspicion about what the Supreme Council of the Judiciary was doing. I know the minister is a member of the office and I'm wondering if he was in that first session and was he in the second? Did he support this proposal to pick 15 first, then select 16 candidates? If the minister voted for such a thing, I think he should resign immediately, because for those of us who are not judges, who are not lawyers, it really has nothing to do with sound logic, because in no institution in this country it would certainly not be possible. But then it's really embarrassing for something like that to be possible in this House, and I suggest you withdraw the proposal, that a new session be scheduled. You call a new competition, come out with a concrete proposal. Call a competition if you need 20 judges, so take 20, and don't come with a proposal to receive more than one who's elected, especially if you still don't know what's going on with those judges, and there are a lot of them that have been returned, about 600, who were once members of the SNS, now they say they're probably not anymore, because the law doesn't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21415	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21416	Dear representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, not a suspiciously important law – the Law on Violations and our MP group said what was good and what was positively done in the area of improvement of this legislation. I'd like to make a few points. First of all, the issue of party delivery and notification has really been well done and this has been a huge problem in the previous period and new institutes that are being introduced, from a criminal order to a register of unpaid penalties. There are some things, but of course, there are others. In technical terms and normative terms, the law is improved and improved. What's important is that more colleagues here have pointed out that the misdemeanor procedure is the procedure that citizens most often encounter and that's absolutely correct and that points to the importance of this law. There's another fact that's also important. I think, in addition to the General Administrative Procedure Act, this law to which most entities apply it, the most state-owned authorities apply it. It is good to have a system law, and it is good to see the announcement that in the autumn, a law on general administrative procedure, whose draft was made, will be joined. This would cover all those state bodies that would apply these two important laws. I expect, Mr. Minister, that we will enter into a more serious reform and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is also something that deserves a special debate. In my debate, I will focus on a segment of the reform of breaking legislation, which I think would be good for us to discuss, and what we are very fundamentally in a good debate that was in the National Assembly in 2011, when it was the Code of Criminal Procedure, discussed, and that is, to say, a change of position or redistribution of the structure within the infringement procedure, when it comes to burden of proof. When he was the Code of Criminal Procedure, much was said about the consequences of abandoning the concept of establishing material truth and in fact introducing a concept of burden of proof on parties in the process. I want to say here that the effect expected from the introduction of this concept into breaking legislation, I have the impression that it will not be as predicted. We've heard a lot in these two days in the debate about what this led to the obsolescence of the offenders. Most of the time we've heard here from distinguished colleagues that it's party inactivity. I don't agree with that attitude. It is said that the parties are not interested. I think the defendant is very interested in the misdemeanor procedure, acting in different ways, from avoiding reception calls, which I think is now being resolved by improving the delivery solution, until there is a good defender, proposing evidence and performing proceedings. The problem was with those who were initiating a misdemeanor. There we had the situation that it was a burden of proof on the side of the court, but in this concept the question arises – who was responsible for why such a number, not the court, but the authorities that conducted the misdemeanor procedure, to be more precise, who was responsible for why cases become obsolete? The one who conducted the misdemeanor procedure. Now we want to say that in a situation where the court no longer has to, except in exceptional cases as you have stated, it proposes evidence, that the parties will suddenly become active, especially the applicant of a misapplication, and that they will be very interested in the proceedings being carried out until the end. I would like to point to a different position, since this concept has been transposed from the Law on Infringement Procedure, especially the position of the prosecutor who had and what motivation to resolve the subject through the conclusion of the agreement. For his career it's important to solve the case, it's important that he conducts the investigation, suggests evidence and, in the end, stands behind him the entire state apparatus. Now that we see who these are and who, at the very end of the line, are going to appear by a misdemeanor procedure on the side of those who file a misdemeanor, when we see who's prescribing all the violations and who's going to be that, the question is, will this changed role take place so that they'll suddenly become interested? Will the municipal inspector, a construction inspector with 30,000 dinar receipts, be suddenly interested in pulling a strong misdemeanor procedure to end it, in the absence of the role of the court that has so far been or who has conducted the misdemeanor proceedings? I must express my concern that this will not be quite so and that we will continue to play a passive role of the applicant of the criminal complaint and the problematic situation that the criminal court is awaiting an initiative by him. On the other hand, we have a situation that can be problematic in practice. You can get yourself into a situation where the defendant is convicted without ever showing up in court. The possibility of a written defense is being introduced. He can write a written defense, the court can assess that, as the law provides here, he does not have to be called into certain parts of the proceedings if his defence is deemed sufficient and, in the extreme line, can be ruled out without ever showing up. The question arises – is this the role of the court, which provides for the real position of the applicant for a misapplication, which is not the prosecutor but, in most cases, the various types of inspection, of course, and the other state authorities involved, will solve this problem? In addition, the possibility of concluding an agreement on the recognition of violations in such a situation as the applicant of a misapplication, I am also talking about his material situation, I would like it to be drastically improved, as I would like if the economic situation allowed both the prosecutor's office and the judge's position to improve, especially those persons. So he can come into a situation that, imagine a building inspector who needs to negotiate with a powerful construction company about the conclusion of recognition and agreeing on the level of punishment, we're talking about the possibility of corruption. These are some problems we could talk about, and we need to talk. I know that public opinion has been shared, in the professional public not only in Serbia but also in Europe about which concept is better? We think that this position that the applicant has is a large number of bodies that are going to be doing this will not solve this key problem, which is that the interest in solving the problem will be greater, that it will show greater engagement. In that sense, I would like to conclude, the good solutions you have introduced in relation to delivery, the notification has been corrected by the problem that existed in the previous period which led to the inability to end the infringement procedure, i.e. to become an obstruction into obsolescence. I think it'd be better if he kept that concept. I'm giving my opinion. One proposal for delivery should not be extended in the workplace except for those who are directly authorized to receive letters, as there can also be abuses. The other solutions you've introduced are quite fine. I wanted to look back on this aspect, pointing to my personal concern and doubting that he would give effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21417	The word has a folk emissary to Milica Dronjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21418	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the People's MPs, today we have a debate on the draft law on violations in principle. The fact is that in order to solve the problem in the application of the applicable law, as you Mr. Ministers have done in your opening statement, it was necessary to draw up a new law on infringements that would regulate the resolution of infringements in an economic and efficient way, of course, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, the jurisprudence of the Court of Human Rights and other applicable international documents. By applying the applicable Law on Infringements, which was adopted in 2005 and has been applied since 2009 and the problems encountered in the application of the law, such as the ineffectiveness of the infringement procedure due to a large inflow of cases, a large number of outdated cases due to party obstruction, the inability to ensure the presence of the accused and other participants in the procedure, short deadlines for handling, poor procedural discipline of parties and problems related to the processing of foreign natural and legal persons, they pointed out the need for the adoption of a new law on infringement. Compared to the existing law, they are more detailed or introduced as the new next most important areas – the criminal liability of legal persons, which was necessary to prevent the practice of legal persons avoiding criminal liability or the obligation to pay fines through changes in their status. A more precise arrangement of work in the public interest, thus creating conditions for this sanctions to be applied wider, which would be of doubtless benefit both for perpetrators of violations and for the state; a period of limitations, as long as the limitation deadlines are extended from one to two years, i.e. in absolute deadlines from two to four years. The short limitation period is regularly highlighted as a reason for the frequent occurrence of criminal prosecution or enforcement of a criminal sanction. The Court’s obligation to establish the material truth which has been replaced by the provision that the burden of proof is the mark of the offence and of the criminal liability on the applicant’s request to initiate the infringement procedure. In the current procedure, the overall burden of proof is actually in court, which puts him in an extremely unfavourable situation given the business inactivity of parties in the process, with frequent avoidance of reception, calls or appearances at hearings. Even authorised applicants are acting inactively and uninterested in providing their evidence. The introduction of the basic rule that the party is obliged to obtain evidence whose implementation it has proposed will significantly improve the procedural discipline of the parties, given that it is in the undoubtedly interest of the parties to obtain evidence in favour of their claims. In order to protect the presummation of innocence, as well as to respect the principle of equality of arms before the court, the court may obtain evidence in favour of the defendant if he is unable to do so himself. Delivery is also more detailed. Letters will be delivered via mail or other delivery services, introducing the possibility of competition by mail as a way to raise the level of performance of delivery. A new delivery method is introduced when conditions exist, and that is electronic delivery. Specially regulated delivery at home, delivery at the workplace and delivery to the absent person. A rule has also been introduced that the court may order the party to call and provide witness presence, whose hearing it has proposed. Failed delivery is one of the biggest problems with the infringement procedure. In large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis, the percentage of successful deliveries does not exceed 20%, resulting in an unwarranted length of proceedings, as well as a frequent occurrence of limitations. For these reasons, delivery provisions have been given special attention with a view to their detailed arrangements, to minimise the possibility of abuse and avoidance, in order to delay the proceedings and avoid criminal liability. There is also a criminal order that represents a new legal institute that is introduced by this law. The infringement warrant has found its application in the laws of neighbouring countries, as well as in most European countries where it has shown very good results in practice. It simplifies the processing of minor infringements for which fines are prescribed in a fixed amount, with a significant reduction in costs for state authorities. As the perpetrators of the infringements are offered the possibility that, in the event of payment of half the fines imposed within the time limit for voluntary payment, significant savings are expected for a significant increase in the number of voluntary fines, and thus to increase the total revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of the collection of these fines. By applying them, it will stop the possibility of paying for a fixed money deposit on the spot, thus reducing the possibility of corruption and police and inspection bodies. By issuing the order, the authorised authorities will directly apply the laws of their jurisdiction, given that the order imposes a fine whose height forwards are determined by law. For all other offences, for which a fine is prescribed in the range or provided for, some other criminal sanctions for which individualisation of the prescribed penalty is necessary, with an assessment of all concrete expedient and difficult circumstances and facts, the authorities of the administration will be obliged to apply to the competent criminal court for the initiation of the infringement procedure. Unlike the existing law, the authorities of the administration will no longer be able to initiate and conduct criminal proceedings and decide whether to impose criminal sanctions. Thus, the draft law went one step further towards compliance with international standards, one of which is important to ensure that the procedures in which criminal sanctions are imposed are conducted exclusively by an impartial court, with respect for the procedural rights of the participants in the proceedings, in accordance with international standards relating to the conduct of judicial proceedings. Then, the provisions on the mandatory payment procedure, in addition to delivery, the payment of fines represents the second, biggest problem of the infringement procedure. So far, the practice of misdemeanor courts suggests that the payment of fines from natural persons and entrepreneurs is almost exclusively carried out under the threat of execution of prison sentences, and after the procedure of replacing unpaid fines, the prison sentence. This often leads to an act of limitations in the execution of fines, and when fines and charges were imposed, the costs of the proceedings were normally not charged and thus fell on the burden of the courts, since they cannot be replaced by a prison sentence. In this way, the replacement of fines has become a regular means of forced collection, without trying to make a real forced payment and whether or not there were real conditions for it. Lately, due to the growing economic crisis, an increasing number of citizens prefer to endure prison sentences rather than pay fines, thus significantly increasing the cost of the state rather than making real income by paying fines. In addition, since prison facilities are insufficient, there is a real danger that many perpetrators of the offence, waiting to be called on for the maintenance of the sentence, for the occurrence of obsolescence never to endure the prison sentence, while the debt on the basis of the fine and the costs of the proceedings will never be charged. In view of the above, the provisions on the mandatory collection of fines and other fines have undergone significant changes in order to strengthen jurisdiction and thus to increase the liability of the criminal court which has imposed the fine, that penalty and charges. This law established two unique registers as electronic databases of defendants and of criminal sanctions imposed. In particular, the law establishes a register of sanctions as a single record of criminal sanctions imposed and a register of unpaid fines as a single record of unpaid fines and other fines awarded. Registers have been introduced for centralised records of all penalties, sanctions and perpetrators, on which there has been no precise and unique record so far, as well as for keeping records of unpaid fines and other fines awarded, and for their more efficient collection. The provisions of the law, which are regulated by the registers, are made up in accordance with the principles of the Personal Data Protection Act, taking into account the observations made by the Office of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, which are presented to the Working Party for the construction of this Act during the public debate. In this connection, the law contains provisions on the introduction and establishment of a register on who is the controller of the register, and on who is the data processor, which is the purpose of the register, who will have access to the data from the register, who will be able to use the data and how much data will be kept, as well as other necessary provisions. As president of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty, as regards the Committee's workaround, I hope that the new law on infringements will contribute to strengthening respect for criminal provisions in the laws which are regulated by the Committee's field of affairs, especially by employers and employees, to protect employees of private employers through the collection of fines on the spot for non-compliance with labour rights and on the basis of the work of rest, severance, cancellation, cancellation, remuneration, management of a workbook, as well as to strengthen the discipline of users of pension-inhabitation rights and employers, in particular with respect to respect to the obligation to pay contributions, the keeping of a home register, etc. Finally, as an MP in front of the United Pensioners of Serbia parliamentary group, I will certainly vote for this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21419	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I shall first and foremost speak of the draft law on violations, because I consider it to be an important law. Of course, it is not as important as criminal law, but it is part of procedural legislation and perhaps even more important, because a far greater number of citizens face it in everyday life. What I want first of all to say, as Mr. Cvian mentioned, is that this law represents the continuity of work between the two ministries. Why does it matter? Not that we are today the Democratic Party or we have been in power or today is the Serbian Progressive Party, but the judiciary as a whole is a mechanism that is extremely difficult and extremely slow to change. In addition to the resistance we had, I think that even now the ruling set also comes across similar resistances, and that's something that will wait for future ministers and for the next ten years, probably longer. It should persist in a certain continuity of reforms. This does not mean that I will agree with everything that the Serbian Progressive Party is doing today, or that they agree with what we have been doing, but I think it is essential, that there is one direction that was unique to all. Anything else, if it were to change from year to year, I don't think that system would work. In that sense, what it is, I think we all support and agree today, is good is that misdemeanor courts have become courts, although we used to call them courts, were in fact the authorities of the administration. It's one of the things that I want to talk about at the very beginning, first of all in a certain way and in the very text of the law, and then in another part, that every law must know what life's reality is. Whether the law is good or not, it can be appreciated by legal experts, we can agree in the Assembly, but whether life can recognise that law and live on that is another question. The first principled remark I want to talk about is something left of the old law, which I think may have come the time for things to change, because it is something we will surely have to change in the EU accession process, which I believe is of absolute interest to most of us. At the very beginning of the law, the law determines which regulations can be prescribed. Of course, it's not like criminal law, and we know that only by law can there be certain crimes. Most of it's in the Penal Code. Unfortunately, some are in some other laws. It creates confusion and may make it harder for the judges to act. As is now imagined, not only is the law determined, but also by government regulations, the regulations of the autonomous province, the regulations of local self-government. I think we should narrow down a circle of organs that can bring violations. This will certainly cause a problem in implementing our normative, because it will be necessary to do one law, a law that would cover all these regulations, which currently exist. Since, Mr. Minister, you've put me here to apply, I mean, since March 2014, I don't think that's impossible. What is causing the dilemma with me, you will see it from my amendment, but it should remain only by law, by decisions, by the rules of the autonomous province, or perhaps you should keep it, so that local self-governments suggest certain types of violations. I think that, in any case, a regulation should be removed from the law. I don't see any need for regulations to prescribe violations, because regulations are passed by the government, and we know that the government is proposing laws to the National Assembly. I think that would create additional legal certainty. So we don't get into the situation we're in right now, that the judges for violations are courts in a judicial system related to the Justice Act, and the local authorities are prescribing violations. So, the authorities of the administration that are being handled by the courts. That's one of the things you'll see in the amendment's proposal, and we'll discuss it more closely when they come to the order of the amendment. What is very important from the principle of objections is one practice that is not only about the Ministry of Justice and is not only about this time, but also before, and this is about unpreparedness, inability to really pay attention to the European Union directives and the Council of Europe conventions. Here I hold in my hand the paper the Ministry suggested, or government. The paper is called – a declaration of compliance with the regulations of the European Union. She's empty. There are questions, and the answer is nowhere. There is only a sentence on this side – there is no relevant regulation of the European Union to ensure compliance. It would be nice if that were the case, but I don't think so, because whoever's sitting here, whoever's a lawyer, I think they'll agree that there are either directives or conventions of the Council of Europe that concern detention in custody, prison. There are definitely certain regulations to be complied with. I'm not saying this law is not in line, but from that we don't see what's in line. This may pass today in the Assembly and we can say it and that the European Union does not cause a problem, but I ask you – what will we do when we start negotiations? Chapters 23 and 24, this is the subject of both chapters. So how are we going to act, if you don't have people who can clearly go through all the directives, through the conventions of the Council of Europe, and we in the Assembly know what is and what is not a European standard? My advice to you is to make a team of people, because this may be possible by the end of the year, and this way of proposing will no longer be possible. One more thing, seemingly technical, but I think it paints real life. I hope the idea of all of us is that this law doesn't remain a dead letter on paper. In the transitional and final provisions, since someone who did laws, proposed and knew where the problem was, I always paid the most attention to the transitional and final provisions, there are sentences that we often put, which is – no additional funding is needed. Now let's talk real. By reading the law – is it possible to change, say, the way you deliver, you are making certain less or higher costs without saying that directly in the law you say that some two new registers are being introduced. I support the introduction of these registers and I think it's good, but let's face it, it's not possible to do it without money. You had to introduce in the law that financial resources were needed, and I would personally vote for it, because I know that money needs justice, that law requires resources, but this is no way to seriously access the law. What's gonna happen? You have in the transitional and final provisions that within six months you have to pass a sublegal act, to change these registers you have to hire someone, to sign a tender, you won't have any money in the budget, and this law in its most important part won't live. I appeal and believe it would not be bad for the government to supplement it or inform the Assembly that the law in the subsequent procedure will be passed, but I suggest that what is in the law is not correct, because it is inadmissible to apply this law without special financial resources. In order not to owe, I have something important to say about the law itself, because I have submitted amendments, where I believe I will come across support, but we will discuss this in more detail the day we discuss the amendments. One of the things that's been sticking my eyes out for years, and I think this is a good opportunity to change, which is a matter of diplomatic immunity. You all know diplomats don't pay fines for violations in our country. That's how it was written in law. It's a practice that's existed for many years. This practice was everywhere in the world about 20-30 years ago. Meanwhile, some countries have changed practice, primarily large centres of diplomats, from Brussels, Washington, etc. And our diplomats pay the fines in those countries. I believe that this provision should remain in the law, but only one sentence should be added - on the condition of reciprocity. In other words, if our diplomats don't pay fines abroad, they won't pay them here either. If we're paying the fines, I don't see any reason why some of the diplomatic money doesn't go into the Republic of Serbia's budget. The other thing that's been talked about a lot, and it's about the third thing, it's about the amount of punishment and the question of the amount of money that's being replaced by the day of prison. Yesterday we listened to the dialogue between counterpart Judith Popovic and minister, what are the facts and what is true is that there is something, and that is real life. It is not disputed that penalties were imposed earlier, even increased in our time and that is something that is notorous. On the other hand, it's not the same level of life, it's not the same quality of life today and four years ago, it's a difficult economic crisis. I don't think any of us can say when we're going to get out of the economic crisis, that it's some perspective that's coming. In this regard, I think it would be a good idea if, by amending the law or by accepting our amendment or any other parliamentary group, the penalties were brought down to some normal that is today acceptable to the citizens. It is not only that you make citizens pay less, but you have to understand one other thing – citizens do not pay the fines. So when you raise high sentences, they just don't pay. You know that rarely when it can get to execution, so it can't be done and when someone doesn't pay for electricity. Therefore, it is simply a minor budget total. I believe that the reduction of penalties would be achieved, as well as the violation of a warrant, which is well done in law, so that the collection of fines in the budget itself will be more effective. On the other hand, I have no doubt that by accepting such an amendment, the government would receive support, because I am sure that citizens would prefer those penalties to be appropriate to their current standard. If that standard goes up in five years, the least problem is that a new National Assembly is increasing its fines again. It's tightly tied to this other part, which I think is important. If someone can't pay the fine today, he's being sent to prison, in an increasing number of cases, by being replaced by one fine for a thousand dinars. That's where I want to say one very important thing - prison costs. When you send someone to prison, someone pays for it. It pays the budget. I'll be corrected by the minister, but I believe that today at least two thousand dinars cost the day of someone you're holding in prison. On those thousand dinars, as much as he didn't pay the fine, you have three thousand dinars of damage. That's real, 'cause whoever goes to jail has to eat. By increasing this amount, I suggested by my amendment to three thousand dinars a day in prison, a double effect would be put in place. First, citizens would go to jail shorter. So if you owe 10,000 dinars, you'd be in jail for three days, not ten. On the other hand, they would save extra money, because those 10 days in prison would cost another 20,000 dinars to the state, and this would cost 6,000 etc. I think it's a good measure, that it's not bad, because, after all, everyone here who's a lawyer knows very well that they're the most harmful, especially when the younger ones are at stake, the short-term prison sentences, because they're a counterproduct, and nothing positive. I'm finishing up, so my colleagues won't warn me, but just one more sentence about old age. A lot of other colleagues from parliament talked about it. We also heard it was four years now and it was two. I want to point out that this isn't just about making it easier for a citizen or a shorter procedure. You in the judiciary have very up-to-date judges who reach the norm and who work quality. You've got other judges who aren't that up-to-date or they don't work properly. Now I'm not going to talk at all about the segment that citizens are avoiding calls, which is a lot to talk about today. I think it would be better and more celery to keep obsolescence within the deadlines that have been in place so far. Because if you look at the last three or four years, you have a greater efficiency in the work of misdemeanor courts. This means that more and more cases are being solved, which is not enough, but in some perspective it could be a solution. I'm afraid, if you introduce higher limitation deadlines, that there will be a relief of the work of the judiciary, and that in the end in two years, the effect will be the same. You won't have a million objects in your work, but two million and the same number of items will go out of date from year to year. I think it's more celibate in procedures that are urgent and short, such as misdemeanor procedures, that the deadlines are short. I don't think what you're proposing is going to happen, and that's that fewer objects become obsolete. They will, in the first year, that in the fourth year it would be the same number, if not completely identical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21421	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21422	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors, fellow MPs, in the part of the discussion when I spoke as an authorised representative about the Law on Infringements, I affirmed three questions. Now I would like to clarify them and ask for a little bit of attention, because, if there is a good will, there is a possibility that some of these proposals, which, by my deep conviction, improve the quality of this law, can be found in the proposal and later in the adopted text of the law. I mentioned the principle of opportunity. To make it clear to the citizens what is opportunity in criminal law, then we need to start with something that is undeniable. It is indisputable that it is a benefit granted to the perpetrator of a criminal offence, so that in the case of crimes that merit a minor degree of social danger, minor crimes, the perpetrator of a criminal offence may be freed from further criminal proceedings if he pays a certain amount of money for humanitarian purposes. I speak for humanitarian purposes. If he doesn't, in any case, he pleaded guilty and the criminal proceedings continued. With careful reading of the Bill of Violations, I see that the principle of opportunity has been tried through the Institute of Violation. How? The proposed solution is that by paying one half of the sentence, the perpetrator of the offence is released from the rest of the sentence, he does not have to pay it, and the infringement procedure is suspended on the other hand. Now a question arises which is justified from the point of view of rationality. In any case, the criminal order is as an institute and as significant in the Law of Infringement. It was otherwise applied by comparative observation found that it has given major and good effects in the violation rights of neighbouring countries and other countries in Europe. That's a good solution, but why not consider the opportunite, which would significantly reduce the number of cases that have been charged with criminal courts? It's a huge number, we have to admit. If we're going from the fact that it's a million objects, then something could be done with this principle. On the other hand, I don't know why perpetrators of a crime, whether they have a qualification of a crime or a qualification of a crime, would be in an unfavourable or unequal position. The opportunity should be unique for both, since they are all equal before the law. In any case, this could be thinking, so that the commercial law can be applied, which is the right of the competent committee, the Justice and State Administration Committee, to possibly respond to the amendment if it is assessed as having to and rationally introduced such an institute in the Law of Infringements. The second question was dedicated to safeguarding measures, where I said that if the companies that are in bankruptcy and run over are not subject to protection measures, besides the ban on activity, mentioning and banning certain businesses. I agree that in court practice such cases are extremely rare and do not exist, but if they are rare or if they do not exist, it does not mean that they should not be implemented in law in order to warn such opportunities. Why? Just because of what I was talking about this morning, to protect the bankruptcy mass, protect trust and respect the basic principle of bankruptcy law. If there is indeed an opportunity in this direction to improve the law, I would ask that the amendment proposed be carefully considered. It's about the Law of Infractions. However, I am convinced that after all the discussions I heard today and categorically stand at the point that what I said today is right, that it is urgently necessary to remove from the Republic's parliament the possibility of deciding on personal solutions in the judiciary. It is expedient that there is no longer a possibility that judges with their names and last names represent weapons in the fight between political parties. Why? Because this is the highest degree of humiliation for judges, therefore, and for courts, and not to mention the extent to which the principle of judicial independence and the authority of the judiciary in general is threatened. I need to draw attention to two facts that no one here can doubt. Today, there have been so many words about why this list of candidates who have been proposed to be elected as holders of judicial functions, which are first elected for three years, why they have not passed the criteria. Those who ask that question should know the answer. Why didn't they bring those criteria? One political party, i.e. held the judiciary, i.e. the Ministry of Justice from 2004 to 2008, and the other from 2008 to 2012. Why didn't anyone think to pass the regulation on the evaluation or evaluation of the work of judges and prosecutors? Now we wouldn't have that problem. We're referring to a rule that was passed back in 1993. During that time, a system of judicial independence was destroyed. During that time, many mistakes have been made whose consequences are still felt today. The SPS has not been part of anything since 2000, as it relates to such a radical way of estimating the work of judges and judges. Is anyone today, who has any moral scruples, even if moral scruples and politics, aware that precisely because of judicial reform, the situation in the judiciary today is what it is? That we as a parliament have been put in a position to do something that is absolutely inadmissible -- to make a decision, even the law, to choose judges who have not passed the evaluation at all, and where did the grades have to be given? That's why it's high time to stop lamentating the judges and lamentating the lists, with facts and qualifications on whether someone deserved something or didn't deserve it. There's been a lot of experiments. Nature's experiments to unresect everyone first, I apologize, not all but even 700, without any single criteria. We don't know who actually deserved to be unreelected and who didn't deserve it? And worse, the opposite. What about those who have passed, and surely they have not met certain criteria, at least some? I'm convinced that's not a high percentage. Now, by the Constitutional Court's decision, they're all back. These people have some rights. These people are primarily entitled to compensation for what has been done. The damage is both material and immaterial in terms of words. Who's to blame? I can't ask for an alibi for those who call for their failures. No one can call on their shame, absolutely no one. I therefore draw attention that it is high time for this parliament, at least from the point of view of the culture of speech, to stop something that is a humiliation of judges and judges. The word of the judge means something sublime. The judge's word and the judge's status means respect. Even, you can say freely, and awe, at least in the part where the one who did any illegal activity is aware of the fact that this same judge can also punish. And it's awe as a feeling fully established, lifelike and justifiable. If so, then judges should be left to their bodies, independent bodies, particularly the High Council of the Judiciary, who is the sole authority to decide on the status of the judge from the point of view of the law. Not us, not parliament, not MPs, not political parties. I thank you. This is just another small contribution compared to what I said today that the complete Corps of all that we are discussing today, all points of united debate, from the point of view of the SPS parliamentary group would be satisfied. And I repeat once again that the SPS parliamentary group in voting day will support these draft laws on violations and decisions that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21423	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21424	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to repeat something that has been said here about this law. He is a step forward in a sense. He is better than the one we've had so far, but unfortunately it's not a law that we can say he has fulfilled all our expectations. In addition to the provisions on increasing the limitation period, which we consider absolutely pointless, because the efficiency of the judiciary must be stimulated by other measures rather than by measures that will actually cause inertness in the criminal justice system. So, this measure practically resembles what my colleague Milica Radovic said in the opening debate, for that story, I apologize for mentioning it, about aflatoxin, where we say that we are now not at risk of aflatoxin because we have increased the value and the limit in which this aflatoxin is allowed. That's right here. We are reportedly going to have an effective criminal justice system if we extend the limitation deadlines, and then the inert judiciary will fit into those deadlines. It's just that it's not true. In order not to further engage in reasons now, we have heard very high-quality discussions about it. We've submitted the amendment, and I think we'll be discussing it by the voting day, and I think the government will respect those amendments. I would like to draw attention to something that would make this debate more interesting, something that was not a newspaper of this law, which was in the current legislation, and we think that if the government had already been brave enough to come out with this law, that it would have been worth changing, regardless of what it was even in that applicable law that my MP group voted for in 2005. But from today's point of view, we think that these provisions are anachrons and that they should have been changed. I'm going to make that attitude very simple, on two examples. One example is the provisions on minors, and another example is related to the execution of punishment. You haven't changed the provisions on minors in your proposal. Responsibilities, when it comes to minors, remain the same as in the applicable law. And our opinion was, or our expectation, that you would change those provisions. Why? Because the applicable provisions on minors, as well as the provisions of your proposal, suggest that when a child commits an offence, he commits a violation of his actions and activities, then the parent, adoptor, guardian or fosterer will objectively answer for the violation that the child committed. That's what it said in the applicable law, more or less, and that's what you're proposing in the new law on violations. What's the problem? There's a problem that we're staying at an anachronous norm, a norm that I can freely say is not in line with modern understandings right and, after all, it can't be said that civilization is a liquid, because introducing objective responsibility in criminal law is something that should certainly be avoided in modern times. Where's the objective responsibility? Namely, a person who has not committed a crime is punished for a crime. Why? Because it's the face of a parent, guardian or adoptor of a minor child under the age of 14 who committed the crime. It's not possible in a modern and civilized world. This standard in the applicable law should have been deleted earlier, especially when a new law is passed. In a conversation with colleagues from other political parties, I heard of an idea and I think that it can basically be supported – that this should not be about the objective responsibility of parents for the offence committed by a child, but that we can talk about responsibility for the failure of supervision. If you tell me it's so said here, I'll easily prove it isn't. It says here, "When a child commits a violation of duty," I now say a little short, "this same offense will be punishable by a parent." It's an objective responsibility. If it had written something else, that it was a violation of the duty of supervision and that it would be done, there would be a violation, with the very failure of the duty of supervision, so that the offense was answered by the parent, it was something else entirely. We're chasing responsibility here, for example, material parents, who come out of delinquents, because delinquents create bonds and that's one thing. But talking about an objective responsibility for a violation that wasn't committed by the one required for that offence to suit, it's not a civilization norm. We expected you to change this. Come on, one happy example. Imagine a child who is 13 years old and eight months old, let's say it's a child of any of us parents. That we won't give him more for the shoes, and he'll take revenge on both of our family cars, the car that belongs to his father, he'll go three times through the red light and bring him back. I mean, I mean, I'm talking deliberately, not about stealing the key, stealing the key, then it's the subjective responsibility of a parent, the owner of a car that doesn't keep his car. So he's deliberately talking about breaking and entering. Then he says to his father, "Come on, now, daddy, 30 days in jail, or let them take your license, and next time you refuse to give me the money for the shoes I asked you for." Do we want to stimulate such behavior by the provisions of our law? Of course not. Then this isn't possible. This was supposed to change. We asked for the removal of a complete member, to challenge you, to force the ministry as a proposing to consider adequate solutions. We have another example, and I end up, so it's a matter of committing criminal sanctions. The applicable law stipulates that a decision of sanctions may be carried out before the jurisdiction of the decision should the appropriate conditions be met. It says that it is a situation in which the defendant cannot prove his identity or has no residence, if he goes abroad for his stay, and there is a reasonable doubt that the accused will derail the execution of the sentence imposed. There was another basis, and this is if the defendant is punished for a serious offense in the area of public order and peace, there is a doubt that he will repeat or continue to commit crimes or avoid jail time. Of course, you've spread these basics into the law, not to read now, you know how and in which direction you've expanded them. We think that even the valid basis is not in line with civilizational fluids, nor is it in line with modern legal thoughts. You cannot go to criminal law to execute a decision before the lawfulness of that decision. That's impossible. If it's about measures against enforcement, then you've had to come up with such measures, not talk about the verdict being carried out before its justice. So it's absolutely impossible in the modern legal political sense. So you shouldn't have done that. We invite you to take steps in these two categories, either by adopting some to the amendments offered, or by agreeing that we have recently changed this law, in this area, to bring this law into line with modern civilizational fluids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21425	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21426	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, before I begin my discussion on the Law on Infringements, I would like to, and according to my record, this is the 20th law that the Ministry of Justice and State Administration brings before us MPs, to congratulate the current minister on the jubilee 20 laws. I'm glad he's here, and I'm sure this announced reconstruction will, of course, survive, considering he's raised a very high scale, that he skipped that scale, but I'm afraid he's set great standards and high for all future ministers, and those who do the work he's done in the past year very successfully. This Law on Infringements is a continuation of judicial reform, an attempt by this ministry and all of us MPs who make up the ruling majority, to correct a number of mistakes and failures that occurred in the previous period, I would say especially from 2008 to 2012. In that period, I think less legal proposals have been made in four years than this ministry has given in a year. There was an objection, Minister, yesterday that I didn't like you very much as a man from the profession, which someone in lack of arguments and lack of knowledge and lack of reading of this law took as the main argument that you respected, which is the years you have. The years are your advantage, I wouldn't change with you, because this year they look good on me, but for the knowledge you have, I'd be changing at any time. You are a very young man who has devoted a lot of his life to science, who may have devoted the most beautiful years to the book and knowledge. I am very pleased, among other things, with your ministry and with what you have given before us in this year's time, indeed. Also, when you passed, or proposed any law, I know that you have always been able to listen publicly, I know that you have consulted both the layman's public and the expert. I know that several professors of law who had their ideas helped to find this law before us today took part in this law. I know that the esteemed secretary of state, Dr Danilo Nikolic, has contributed greatly to the drafting of this law, which I also congratulate him on, but of course you are the hat of that ministry and, of course, a lot of it, that is, depends on you. By law, I have come to the conclusion of the bill which is the reason for this law. It is fair to say that in December 2011, the creation of this law, or the proposal of this law, began, that this had been initiated by the previous Ministry of Justice, however "many wanted, many started", none of it was done. I think that since you run this ministry, you've done most of the work to identify what the problems are and you've realized that there's suffocation in a misdemeanor procedure, that there's suffocation in the courts, that there's a huge inflow of cases, and that there's less than 50% efficiency, or that there's an obsolescence of the case just because of not working, because of ineffectiveness, because of the poor way of calling. All of this led to the very low efficiency of the courts. It's also frantic what you said yesterday, that even the execution of sanctions already imposed by legally established and executive documents, i.e. the verdict, from 14% to 30%, which means that if half of the cases were done, the other half was obsolete. Of that half, one third was charged, apparently the state had nothing but damage from all that. That we managed to put a very small amount of money into the budget, and other than the fines, they were not even paid, so they dropped the burden of the courts, and in some perspective, of course, back to the budget because they are institutions that are funded from the budget. This Law of Infractions has two parts. It has a material legal and infringement procedure, so there is also a material right in one law, i.e. a sienna of violations and institutes that are very important, as well as a violation procedure which is very similar and which relies on the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'd read what's the subject of this law. Of course, not because of the MPs who laugh and who have fun here and who when they talk to one of the MPs, they have fun. If that's the other way around, if we're not disciplined, you'll always remind us, so please let me, like the other fellow MPs from the ruling parties, that in a peaceful and dignified way, they can imagine what they are here for and why we decided to talk about this law. The subject matter of this law is the concept of a violation, the conditions for criminal liability, the conditions for prescribing and applying criminal sanctions, the system of sanctions, the criminal proceedings, the issuing of a criminal order, the procedure for enforcement of a decision, the register of sanctions and the register of fines not paid and other cash amounts. That's what this whole law contains. Also, a newspaper that has not been present so far, which the Strasbourg court has very often warned our judiciary about, and this is a ban on a new trial in the same thing. In fact, it happened that you were also punished in criminal proceedings and you were punished for the same crime, the same factical description, with the same participants, so that someone who was charged in both proceedings was paid and punished, or two fines, or paid the penalty in a criminal proceedings, and even was convicted of prison. It is now completely decadent and completely clear. So, if someone is punished in criminal proceedings, of course, they can't be prosecuted and vice versa, if they're punished in criminal proceedings they can't be prosecuted. Two institutes were introduced by this law that had previously been ignored, which is necessary defence and ultimate necessity. The proceedings before the criminal court have taken place so far by automation, by almost being found guilty, without any particular evidence, and if you acted in the necessary defense or extreme need, it was absolutely not what the court was thinking, there was simply a request to initiate a misdemeanour procedure, and the description of the fact from that request was attributed to the solutions, and now in the verdict. You simply did not have the opportunity to prove that you acted in the necessary defense, protecting yourself from an illegal attack or protecting your property or someone acting in extreme need. Now and this is envisaged and there are no violations, if the action is prescribed as an offence committed in the necessary defence, and also in the event of over-demand of the necessary defence, a minor sentence is imposed against the perpetrator, or if it has been done in particular under extenuating circumstances, the perpetrator can be freed from punishment, which also applies to extreme urgency, which the professional public, in any case, welcomes and we think that this is a newspaper that will bring a much more fair court relationship to the accused. Also, as regards persons of responsibility, other than natural persons and entrepreneurs, who were previously intended to be eligible, it has been extended to legal persons and to the responsible person in the legal person, so now that the beauty of people, i.e. legal persons, who can be held accountable much wider than it has been and is prevented from avoiding legal persons' responsibilities. There are also criminal sanctions provided for by this law, so under number 1) punishment, number 2) are criminal points, under 3) warnings, 4) safeguard measures and 5) educational measures. I would like to point out because some MPs of the opposition yesterday, fearing the public, of course, as they always do, have said that the fines of this law have been increased. I want to deny it and I want to say it for the sake of the Serbian public that the fines have not been increased or in perspective, although if you calculate the inflation that has been for these four years since the previous law was passed and the penalties were recorded then, the penalty could be increased by that percentage, but I think that the ministry has made the right move, in view of the difficult economic situation, given that those penalties are also very dragonish and very difficult at the time, especially when you have people who are very rarely receiving a salary, or if they are receiving, it is very small, I would say, even for a normal life, let alone to pay a fine. What has also caused great interest, both in the government and the opposition MPs, concerns obsolescence. There are arguments both for and against. So far, obsolescence has been a year, it's absolute for two years, and the efficiency of the courts, of course, has nothing to do with the limitations of the proceedings, but it's my opinion that it's a good thing that we've increased, or that the proposal for obsolescence is two years, and, in absolute terms, four years, because this way, the accused loses the motive to delay the procedure, that by running away from the house, away from the delivery company, from the postman who's been ringing and bringing them mail or running from work, simply if you know that for four years it won't be an out of date against you, you'll make that process as soon as possible. I also mention that even in criminal proceedings, antiquity takes place even where absolute obsolescence has been for six years. You know, people in Serbia are reporting, running, moving, knowing when someone's telling them they're coming to get a call, and there's now another moment that's very important and it's about delivering, but it's about a misdemeanor procedure, which I'm going to talk about later. When delivered to an adult family member, it is considered as if someone had received it personally. There are some exceptions to this obsolescence of two years. I will read that – from the provisions of Article 1 of this article for violations in the field of customs, foreign trade, foreign exchange, public income and finance, and I would say public procurement, and I think that this item, trade in goods and services in the environment, prevention of corruption and air traffic, can be laid down by special law for a longer period of limitation. So, here is a longer period of limitations, according to the Public Procurement Act, of course, that's three years and it can be extended to five years. The deadline for the limitation of the execution of fines and safeguard measures from year to year has also been increased to two or a total of four in absolute terms. After four years, it's impossible to execute a sentence. That's what's most remarkable in the material and legal provisions of this law. Also, the second part of this law is a misdemeanour, in fact, and fundamentally in all of this is that what is not provided for by the Law of Infractions will be applied to the analog norms of the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that this Law on Infractions is based on the Code of Criminal Procedure, which we have in the meantime, modelled, completed, and I think it will be much more effective to apply this law. Text delivery is something that is also very remarkable, and yesterday we heard from the minister that both in Belgrade, both Novi Sad and Nis, the success of writing delivery is only 20%. This means that in these cities, except for this size that allows everyone to hide and move, the courts themselves have been brought into a situation that they cannot function as provided for by this law, we will naturally make amendments to this law, or by adopting this law to be carried out in a much more efficient manner. This will be done naturally by delivering to the address of the apartment, where it can also be delivered to the adult person found in the apartment, can be delivered at the workplace, can be delivered via e-mail, the notice is given at the very trial of the next hearing and that is all that is written in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is prescribed here. One newspaper and something that hasn't happened so far is a felony warrant. This infringement order is very important because it can be issued and only where fines are in a fixed amount is given the possibility of the accused paying half of the fine within eight days and thus being released, or if he considers that he has not committed an offence for which a fine has been imposed on him in a fixed amount, that he may refer it to a court for overcoming and prove his innocence. Also, another institute that has been taken out of criminal law, which is a plea agreement, a non-recognition agreement, you can solve the whole case, avoid costs unnecessary, avoid the court doing something that is not necessary. If you are aware that you have committed an offence, you will admit it in the process itself. This is being decided by a court who, of course, will accept the making of such an agreement and several newspapers, is a single register, a register of sanctions. In this way, you will know exactly who is sanctioned, how many convictions there are, who, in this way, will be able to take the confidence of whether or not someone is convicted of a misdemeanor. Also, the register will be for unpaid fines and other fines, and it is called the register of fines. All of this is very important to increase the efficiency of the bill, so that we can fill the budget as planned in this year with budget rebalance among other things. Also, there are consequences of enrolment in the register of fines, no sanctioned person will be allowed to issue a permit or a certificate for which the competent authorities of the administration are issued other than those relating to personal status. It will not be allowed to recover the personal and other documents seized under Article 199 of the Law, which refers, of course, to personal documents, i.e. passports and under three, registrations, i.e. a change in the registration of a legal person or registration of an entrepreneurial activity that implies a change in the PIB This may also be the subject of an assessment by a constitutional court, but I don't think there will be any problem, because the only way to get someone to pay is that they can't meet some of the things and obligations he needs. In the end, I would like to ask the minister one question, and it is the fate of 150 judges for violations, who are in that famous judicial reform in 2009, have not passed the re-election. They are now on the street, bending over, and many of them have worked as judges for their entire lives, they don't know how to do anything else, it's their profession, they've trained for it, they're conducting some proceedings in front of the constitutional court and simply, a few of them asked me and asked me if Mr. Selakovic was in this room to ask him if he was familiar with it, if he hadn't, to that question, he could answer me in writing within 15 days. Of course, in the end, the SNS parliamentary group will fully support this legislative proposal in the voting day, with certain amendments we are likely to accept, or which the ministry will accept and integrate into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21427	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21428	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm sure there's room to repair this bill. I must say, there are good things in this law. For example, a good and resolved question referred to in Article 181 point 1 of this Article, where it is provided that information on whether a criminal procedure or a procedure for a commercial offence for an act covering the mark of the offence required by the case is initiated. So, that data must contain a request to initiate a misdemeanour procedure, which is submitted in writing. We have so far been provided for in Article 213 of the applicable law, that judges or services, a person in the authority of the administration, conduct a misdemeanour procedure. The decision will end the proceedings if a criminal case is brought against the defendant, when the suspension is pending a judicial decision in criminal proceedings. I think this is a better solution that is now given in the draft law, but I must also point out that from the moment on the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, here in this building, on 21 March 2013, at the 22nd session of the Justice Committee, I have asked for an opinion on the interference of public prosecutors in the work of criminal courts through requests for a standstill in cases in which both criminal and criminal liability is possible. It's been four months since then. We have a situation with concrete examples, I even have photocopies of certain material evidence for such a thing, coming into a situation that in unwarranted cases, judges are asked for violations not to do their job. The memos are written, false and requested – don't do your job because the prosecutor has been thinking for a year or almost a year, whether he's going to initiate a criminal procedure. Then we ask, do we need an obsolescence, a year, two or so, or four? No, we need to make it possible for everyone to do their job, to be deprived of certain incorrect pressures. I have the material evidence, the basic court, the primary prosecutor's office writes – a criminal case has been initiated, and the criminal proceedings in the short procedure have not been filed until the indictment has been filed. Falseness is delivered to the judge for violations and is sought – do not do your job. If that's what we're looking for, then it's normal that we don't have a year or two or three or four, so let's make it 15 years. In front of me is a copy of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, where criminal prosecution is said to be impossible when two years have passed since the execution of a criminal offence for which a prison sentence can be imposed by law up to one year or a fine. What does that mean? So for a year's threatening sentence, in two years you can seek prosecution, and for a 60-day prison sentence, six times less than in Criminal Law, what is it proposed? Same two years. That's six times smaller, that would be four months from now, could be a criminal prosecution if we go in simple math and simple math. We're proposing not four months, we're proposing to stay for a year to be able to launch a criminal prosecution without the absolute deadline being two years. It is sufficient, if other institutions do not influence the work of infringement courts and allow them to work properly, along with other amendments, which are now proposed by the new draft law, in terms of delivering and improving the efficiency of courts, quite enough. In that sense, I think that all the conditions have arisen to accept the amendment and then to control who does his job, who doesn't do his job, so that we don't hide behind it and wait, if this bill is unchanged, adopted, the judge will again, those who are unconscious, wait for a year, eight, nine, or 10 months to proceed, and it will wait three years and eight months, not to exaggerate, four years. No, let's cut deadlines and control and give sanctions for what's not done. In any case, I'm taking the opportunity here to get representatives of the VSS, in front of DVT representatives, to repeat what I said four years ago on the Justice Committee, then I didn't want to publish it, then I didn't want to go public with it, but since the phenomenon wasn't eradicated, here at the plenary session I point out that there is a flagrant violation of the applicable regulations. I also introduced Mr. Secretary to certain memos three, four, five months ago. I didn't want to give you a copy, all by counting – let's let the procedure fix it. It hasn't improved, I say at the plenary session now, and I have material evidence. With regard to other things that exist in the bill, there are a whole series of things that need to be read again. Here I call you now to see, in Article 37, it is said – the sentence of prison cannot be prescribed for a short period of less than one day or more than 60 days. A provision for all erga omnes, right? We have a fine in Article 41, a fine for a fined natural person, an entrepreneur or a responsible person does not pay a legal person in whole or in part, a court may replace a prison sentence, so that for each of the 100 dinars they will determine one day in prison, with a prison sentence that cannot last less than one day or more than 90 days. What's up? Sixty days or 90 days? Article 41 says 90 days. The fact is that we can trade fines in 90 days, and if, in addition to fines, a fine was imposed on a fined person, a prison that replaces a fine paid and fined in prison, it means all the jutura can last for up to 60 days. In exchange for 90 days, and in cash and incarceration only 60 days. I'm not sure that's the right thing to do. There are amendments to that, and I expect, that precisely because we have worked hard and we, from our parliamentary group, have, I think 38 amendments submitted, with the aim of fixing from item to item, went to item and tried to correct all logical mistakes. I agree with Mr. Aligrudic. In article 72, a parent can't answer for a crime like he did. It's an inadequate comparison, but it would turn out that if I had a dangerous thing, or I owned an animal, I have a dog, where I miss watching the same dog and let him go and the house bit someone. Well, I can't answer for biting someone. No, I can answer for missing supervision and imposing a criminal liability, under the obligation to compensate for property damage, i.e. material damage and non-proprietary damage. In that sense, let's fix Article 72. There's a lot of that stuff to make up for, and I expect that just when we're considering the law in particular, there's a lot of room for repair. In any situation, the accused cannot be prevented from reviewing the files and the submitted evidence, as regards Article 166. Let's change that. It's a special story with minors. Not only are we now from a 15-day prison sentence being threatened by a 30-day juvenile prison. They can't give such sanctions to judges and judges for violations that haven't been trained. We're trying to be a part of Europe. Was Mr. Stefan Phil here today? Do we have to brag today, tomorrow, about being punished by juvenile prisons by persons who haven't been trained? Secondly, we have a situation where a police officer to a minor can determine a detention measure. Well, it can only be by order of the court. These are some of the things that are eclectic examples that there are certain shortcomings for which there is a good will for all of us, especially our MP groups DS, to come together with all other MPs to come up with a solution, a legal solution that can help us not to be ashamed of tomorrow's law on violations and to make this law on violations absolutely applicable. In that sense, I call you once again to each, but absolutely every amendment that we have submitted, not only us from the DS parliamentary group, but also from all other MPs, to study well. There's room, there's time to fix this law and make it, so we don't be ashamed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21429	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21430	Thank you. President-in-Office, Mr Minister, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, fellow MPs, the draft law on violations today is a generally very good and important law, which needs to be passed, taking into account changes and new legislative solutions in our legislation, as well as the National Strategy for Justice Reform, which we have recently adopted. The current Law on Infringements was adopted in 2005, and it began to apply in 2010, with amendments and additions, because there were numerous changes at the time, and it is particularly important that the Law on the Regulation of Courts set up criminal courts and that the infringement proceedings are no longer administrative proceedings. Also, there is a need to comply with the Code of Criminal Procedure, Criminal Code and the Law on Enforcement and Security. This bill is necessary because of all the above-mentioned changes and developments, and it introduces newspapers and improves existing solutions. I will look back at the most important newspaper, although some of my colleagues have already mentioned it. First of all, I find it extremely important to extend the criminal liability of a legal person. In Article 28. The draft law states that the termination of the existence of a legal person during the infringement proceedings shall not cease to be liable for the offence, in the event of the existence of a legal follower, and that, if the legal person ceases to exist after the lawfulness of the proceedings, the sanctions imposed will be imposed on the legal follower. This envisaged solution will cease with the practice of legal persons to amend their general acts, e.g. By ending the existence of a legal person, then establishing a new one, all in order to avoid criminal liability. Furthermore, the proposed solution also provides for work in the public interest as an alternative sanction. A rise in criminality and the burden of prison institutions leads to an even greater burden on prisons, says prison sentences do not bring about expected effects. I believe that the more positive effect will be achieved by alternative sanctions, in particular, by working in the public interest, in particular, given that they are easier crimes. In this way, it will be created to save in the budget, as well as greater benefit to the defendant. It happened that the accused was cheaper than the fine to replace the same with a prison, thus avoiding an even greater overcrowding of prisons, and savings in the budget will also be realised, which will not be small. I will also refer to the fact that one of my colleagues mentioned yesterday that this proposal seems to have been written by the Ministry of Finance in terms of fines, or heights. I would disagree with this finding for several reasons. First, there is the possibility of alternative sanctions in the form of work in the public interest, secondly, violations are easier acts so I don't see the need for offenders to be deprived of the possibility of fines, but to be punished in prison. There is also monetary punishment for disrespecting procedural discipline in both litigation and criminal proceedings. As far as limitation deadlines, both relative and absolute obsolescence, which are doubled by this bill, I understand the legislator's intention to prevent a number of cases from becoming obsolete in this way. However, I fear that this way will not contribute to the more efficient work of criminal courts, this way it will be tucked in, because it will have time to complete the cases, and the sense of prevention will lose importance and will question legal certainty because the criminal proceedings will be able to last for as long as four years, even if the criminal proceedings for some minor acts cannot last. I think that greater efficiency will be achieved by increasing the number of criminal judges and judicial assistants, as well as by increasing the control of the work of criminal courts. I also think that more effective work will contribute to the changes relating to delivery, so I don't see the need to increase limitation. I believe that any misdemeanor proceedings, regardless of the number of cases in the work of the judge, can be completed within a year and in practice, only one hearing has been scheduled by the criminal judge in a year, and the other judge regularly completes his affairs and schedules for a month, sends calls and ends the proceedings in six, seven months. So I think we should pay special attention to the judges, and it's not the deadlines. The proposed law introduces amendments to the principles concerning the burden of proof. So far, it has been a practice to apply for the initiation of proceedings and that the applicant considers that he has done the job, and has acted passively during the infringement procedure and all evidence actions have been carried out by the court. In this way, applicants will become more active in the process and will propose their own evidence and will seek to prove the facts of the request to initiate the procedure. The provisions relating to the delivery I have already mentioned have experienced innovation by introducing the possibility of electronic delivery and I believe that this will contribute much more effectively to the work of infringement courts, as delivery has so far proved to be a major problem. The most significant newspaper adopted by this bill is a misdemeanor, which exists in many countries of the region. So far, the misdemeanor procedure could only be initiated by request, and the newspaper's legal solution is that the procedure can also be initiated by an infringing order. This warrant gives the possibility of higher payment of fines and is also more profitable for the offender, because if half of the amount is paid within eight days, the second half of the fines shall be written off. I believe that this possibility is given for more efficiency, both collection, and that the misdemeanor procedure will thus be less guided and the misdemeanor courts will be released. The forced collection procedure so far has not yielded significant results because there was a threat unless a fine is charged, that it will be replaced by a prison sentence. A number of perpetrators chose to replace the prison sentence, which led to the execution of the sentence becoming obsolete, because the prisons were overcrowded and would never be called to serve the sentence. The mandatory collection procedure is arranged in accordance with the law on enforcement and security, and will contribute to the increased collection of fines imposed and will reduce the abuse of those fines. As for the introduction of two unique electronic database registers, I think this is a great solution to centralize the database. Also, I will refer to the fact that today is the agenda for the election of judges who have been attacked by some MPs and I do not think there are any objections. Those who implemented the 2009 reform, who thus implemented it, think that in the next five years, no justice ministry can correct what has been done. In particular, I find it unfair, at the very least, to judges who have not been re-elected, six of them and who have been returned by the Constitutional Court's decision to make them members of some parties. It is enough that you did not apply certain criteria when you re-elected these judges and left them to wait for the Constitutional Court to return them to their posts. In view of these legal solutions ahead of us, I believe the draft law on violations contributes to further reform of the judiciary, which is successfully implemented by our Ministry of Justice and local self-government. I call on all my colleagues to vote in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21431	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21432	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, and the distinguished representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, the DSS MPs today in reasoned debates, have highlighted everything we believe is not well in the proposed Law on Infractions, of course, and have given their agreement with some of the solutions that have been proposed here, but we will discuss it in more detail in the debate in detail. I'll use the few minutes our MP group has to talk, first of all, about a proposal for candidates who are first elected judges. Without the intention of commenting on the candidates, their names, their biography, the average with which they completed their studies, I would first of all like to talk about the principle used in determining this proposal. That's what I'm going to try, based solely on the fact that I do. Serbia has a Law on Judges, which at least the DSS parliamentary group, when adopted in this parliament, said was not good. We've made a series of criticisms and suggestions to improve the law. They're not respected. If it were a good law, you wouldn't propose amendments and additions to this law either. But whatever it is, it has to be respected and applied. The law has laid down concrete criteria and criteria for selecting judges. Serbia, too, has the Law on the Judicial Academy, which we also tried to fix before Mrs Malovic, presented what problems it contains. It turns out we were right. Unfortunately, this law on the Judicial Academy is not a lex specialis, but a lex posteritor, as a year after the Law on Judges was passed in this House. You'll let me, that's my opinion, it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm right and we don't have to agree that the Law on the Judicial Academy is clearly contrary to the Law on Judges, at least in those provisions relating to the choice of judges. I remind you, I think the public knows that, and I'm sure you, too, that five initiatives have been launched before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and legality are precisely provisions relating to the choice of judges that favour the students of the Academy over the other candidates. What's a terrible fact is that the Constitutional Court is silent. The Constitutional Court is silent about our proposal to assess the constitutionality of the Vojvodina Statute. The Constitutional Court is silent about government regulations adopted under the agreement, as it is said, between the two cities, Belgrade and Pristina, and in the end two, unfortunately, independent states turned out. The Constitutional Court is silent about the Brussels Agreement. It's too loud that silence that comes from the Constitutional Court regarding this case. The High Council of the judiciary, and the representatives of this body have decided, has proposed to the National Assembly candidates to elect to serve as judges, 14 candidates who have met the conditions under the completed Judicial Academy, and 15 people have been elected. Another candidate was subsequently elected. We know that the Supreme Court of Cassation at the General Session opposed this motion. I know their opinion is not binding either on the High Council of the Judiciary, nor on this House, but I think the constitutional guarantee of the independence of the courts and judges has thus failed to evaluate 447 candidates equally through the procedure of applying equal criteria. The High Council of the Judiciary only applied the Law on Judges when, I say, there were no candidates among the regular members of the Judicial Academy. According to the President of the Commission for the Selection of Judges, the Commission has done the ranking of candidates in accordance with the Law on Judges, taking into account the length of study, university success and the assessment of work. According to the ranking, five members of the Judicial Academy would be among the top 15 candidates and that is not disputed. Uncomfortable is the fact that the Supreme Court judge speaks one at the general session and something else at the High Council of the Judiciary. What he challenged in this first body, he voted against at a session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. What's also a problem is whether the solution to this situation is to adapt the new Law on Judges to the Law on the Judicial Academy. This will not avoid discrimination against candidates. I think that discrimination will deepen further. We know, Mr Minister, that the European Commission is trying to install the Judicial Academy as a constitutional category in the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia. I really appreciate your openness and honesty at yesterday's session, when you said that the new set of judicial laws was not discussed in this room because the European Commission should give an opinion on them. I cannot believe that the European Commission is interested in whether there will be a basic court in Srlig, or whether the judicial unit will be in Guca, but that the problem is whether there will be a court in Kosovo Mitrovica, Strpce and in some other Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. Maybe this is a chance to show that we're a state, that we're not meadows, and that this is the last time people who need to be honest and honest about doing their job as judges in the coming years and decades. The previous practice has shown that there have been many wanderings, many wrong solutions. It's high time for this to get in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21433	The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21434	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Selakovic and the other promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not talk about the Law of Infractions in this united debate, because it is a general opinion that this is a good law and that, with minimum corrections, we will get one quality law that will fix this area for the better. Also, I would like to say that I will support the proposal for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee proposed by the President of the Republic. I'm just going to say a little bit about the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected for the judge's office. Namely, belonging to the SNS parliamentary group does not mean that I should praise every draft law and every draft decision here in this assembly. Also, I believe that at this time at the High Council of the Judiciary, giving priority only to candidates who have graduated from the judicial academy, he has brought, so mildly, to the unequal position of the other candidates. I've had a chance to speak to several judicial assistants. That's why I answer for the word. I don't think they're evenly treated here and we need to find a way to avoid this practice in the future and give them a chance to be elected judges, because I'd say it's the dream of every lawyer who claims to be a successful lawyer. I would take the chance that Minister Selakovic is here, although he is not authorized by this agenda. However, as one of the most successful ministers in this government, and he is also a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, a man who is also responsible for the Justice Reform Strategy, I would like to use his presence and to appeal to him for these objections to further judicial reforms to be considered. Here I would take the opportunity to say something as an MP for the Bosniak People's Party about the constitutional principle of adequate representation of members of national minorities in state bodies, especially in police and justice, in this case in the judiciary. I would be pleased, given that this proposal also elects two judges in the New Market Basic Court, if I could say that at least one of them is Bosniak nationality, which is unfortunately not. The existing national structure in these courts does not correspond to the national population structure. An even more drastic example is, for example, Prepolje municipality. I'm not going to date that data here today, but it's easy to do, it's a few municipalities, take these data, and see that it should work to improve the national representation of members of the Bosniak national minority. I do not advocate that Bosniaks should be elected unless they are professional, qualified and worthy of such functions. The first condition for this is to be professional, qualified and decent, and then to work on improving the national structure, which is ultimately our obligation. There are no Bosniak political parties, including other parties, who predicate against Bosniak votes, who did not promise this in the pre-election campaign, and when they come here to the assembly and the government, then everything is more than that, they're neglecting these essential things, and that's why I volunteered to say a few words about it. I am sure that this government and that Minister Selakovic in this area will pay attention to this issue and that we will fix this matter in this term. I know it is a process and that it cannot be done on a shortcut, but it is certainly important to insist on it, and it is certainly important that it is done after such well-intentioned discussions here in parliament, rather than waiting for us in the EU accession process, in the negotiation process, that someone always assigns us some tasks and then we do it as extorted moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21435	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21436	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to earn your attention by commenting on the draft law on two-point violations, through which I read this bill. The first point is how systematically this bill comes into our legal system regarding other laws that also deal with the same matter. The second point is an analysis of the issues of respect for human rights when it comes to some of the provisions of this law, especially when it comes to minors. Why do I say it systemically? Because I would like to fully and without any doubt and dilemmas to clarify what is going on with the violations currently in other laws, where you have the jurisdiction of other laws or with infringements to which the Republic Commission should be responsible for the protection of rights in public procurement procedures. She came to us with a letter and an initiative for amendments. I am pleased to conclude that this bill has provoked various associations, professional and various groups, to address the National Assembly. It is my pleasure to support the idea of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and to make that clear. What's the problem? The problem is that they have another law, regarding their work, on the obligation to build the capacity of whatever it takes to impose violations in public procurement procedures, which is an important thing. By passing this law, practically in March 2014, it should be in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. So, what's gonna happen? Is it going to happen that there will be no misdemeanors because there is a need for entry into force? Will the Public Procurement Commission continue to invest in capacity building in order to make misdemeanors? I wish there wasn't a need to say the offense, but life is a real thing, we need security and legal protection, that the offense will be or, perhaps, can be fixed by amendments so that it's clear who has jurisdiction, or in the period until March 2014 to carry out criminal proceedings and to impose penalties if there isn't. A similar thing is systemically with other laws, a law that defines the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, defines the work of the Commissioner for Public Information. Now comes the second address of the MPs of the National Assembly by the Transparency of Serbia, who had an initiative for amendments, which concerns how many powers under the laws that define their right and obligations to impose misdemeanor measures, so much obsolescence. I am pleased that the first of the amendments that I have submitted to the Minister's proposal to accept that what is outdated, or not outdated, is being added to the financing of political activities and to add access to information of public importance, and to the initiative and the idea of transparency of Serbia. Why is it important to at least consider whether an obsolescence for funding political activities should be maintained in this law? For the simple reason that it is relatively young and what are rules for funding political activities and mechanisms that need political parties to be put in order, so that we do not happen at the very beginning of these few years, that things that may have been for an outdated, say, election campaign or whatever. I don't think a violation of information of public importance should ever go out of date, or at least at this stage, agree on why it's important. Why is it important that anyone under the Law on Free Access to Information should address the Trustee, that anyone, at any time, refuses to act on request, know that at least they will threaten to punish him. What is important is to make it perfectly clear to all of us what happens to the future effect of this law when it comes to amendments, or whatever, decided to come into force, and what happens to others who also have jurisdiction under the laws that define their functioning as organs and organisations. Another much more sensitive subject concerns human rights, or human rights of minors. The amendment that I have submitted together with counterpart Teodora Vlahovic and colleague Srdjan Mikovic concerns a special group of minors who are without parental ageing, without guardians and invisible to social work centres. Such children are also, in essence, likely and unfortunately will most often be in a position to be hired by the police or whatever the provisions of this law apply. It's one thing if a underage child committed some kind of violation and you know who his parent is and you know who his guardian is or you know what the social work center that identified him is. It's completely different if, unfortunately, it's called a child without a house, a child with no address, a child on the street who will unfortunately be in a situation to commit some of the violations. My amendment extends the protection of the underage person's human rights to the team that the police are under obligation or to find a centre for social work by the child's residence, a minor, or the place where the offence took place, to make sure they don't run out of legal protection. I wish such children were gone, but life teaches us that there are children in Serbia living on the street who are not in the school system, who have left school. It's important that we know that the police will not overstep their powers or know how to act when it comes to such a child. The amendments that we discussed or submitted within the parliamentary group concern the continued human rights of minors in an act that would prohibit the retention of a minor and that would give up the idea of a juvenile prison from the arguments presented by the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, MP Nenad Konstantinovic. With the hope that we will establish a dialogue to make use of those who need to know what awaits them if, by chance, out of ignorance or whatever the misdemeanors are, because it is our role, that together in the dialogue without any dilemma, we will explain to the citizens what awaits them if they commit a violation both as natural persons and as legal persons, and hopefully with extreme delicacy and sensitivity, we will look together at amendments concerning the human rights of minors. I think that the general judiciary is really about human rights, basically, and that it's important that we all participate more in deciding what provisions will be in some laws and try to assess whether there is potential in one of these provisions for one's human rights to be left unprotected. Short on the judge's choice. Since we are MPs, or the National Assembly has received an open letter from the Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia, and I have a completely neutral view of the facts presented in this letter, but I have a clear view that it is necessary to engage in dialogue with the people who make objections, whether the High Council of the judiciary, whether the minister, whether in any way of communication to remove any doubts about the choice of 15 judges, or 16 judges and about the reasons why it is 16 and not 15. The very fact that you have one association that has been raised and addressed to the MPs should be enough for all the information to be shared in detail. If there was a mistake, remove the error. If there was no mistake, then we don't have, as it usually is, to accumulate information on one wrong information because there's no benefit from it, and neither is the Association that thinks there's a mistake, nor the VSS if it feels that there's not been a mistake and the best of all, there's no harm in the judicial system in which these 15 and 16 judges, who are first elected, are to step in. It is important to remove any doubts about the way he was chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21437	The word is Nebojsa Beric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21438	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the Justice Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the issue of violations and misdemeanor responsibility has long been treated as a second-rate issue during the last former state of the SFRY and beyond. This is not only because of the symbolic punishments prescribed for most of the violations, but also because of the fact that the offenders only had the name of the judge, and they had nothing to do with the court. The judge for the violations was the authority of the administration and the judges were appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Several years ago, our citizens experience a real nightmare, if they are smokers and if they are public traffic participants. The desire of the former government to legally modernise this country overnight has become grotesque, which would be said to be the foot of the face and the shoe of the Vienna. I'm sure it had a political background. As you thundered from small screens and newspaper headlines about the harmfulness of smoking and overruns of 10km, and while our prisons were filled with poor people who couldn't pay a penalty, we saw it for a year back that the over-riched powers were being seized from the state and from the people and black under the nails. It is therefore very important that, by adopting any criminal law, including the law on violations, we have in mind that all are equal before the law, that each of us or our loved ones can come before the impact of this law, and therefore the law must be first and foremost just, but also realistic and realistic to value the weight of the Delict, the real threat of the legal order and the goods that are protected by this law. The issue of criminal responsibility is not as attractive as the issue of credential responsibility. But a far greater number of citizens respond criminally than criminally, and that is why it is the great interest of citizens to properly address issues in this area. Finally, the law must be realistic in order to be applicable at all, so that it can be respected because, as the Latin proverb says, respect for the law is a measure of the value of the people. It is doubtless of the utmost importance to prescribe the procedure under which the competent court determines the existence of the delinquent, as well as the type and severity of the sanction to be applied, which the law has justly and realistically prescribed. In the material part of the law, there are a number of institutes that exist in the Criminal Code. Among them is the institute of real error. Article 21 of the proposed law states that it is not responsible for the offence of the perpetrator who, at the time of the offence, was in an irrevocable real error as to some circumstances which would have made the perpetrator's proceedings lawful. This institute has also existed in the current Law of Infractions. However, the position of the High Court of Violent Court in Novi Sad delivered in judgment number – Criminal complaint 6207/13 of 18. Three. In 2013, he unequivocally refuses to consider the institute of real error at all. It is not disputed that in the case, the accused driver, on a priority August, came across a crossroads with a back road, where someone had previously ripped out a traffic sign so-called. A reverse triangle and there's been a car accident. The defendant's driver proved in the process that he rightly expected to have an advantage. So he was in real error. The Court of Appeal in Novi Sad doesn't even mention that there is a real error at all, but only finds that at the moment of the accident there was no sign and the defendant is therefore guilty. This means that all of us who travel hundreds of miles every day coming to this congregation need to take off a traffic sign at every intersection in Red, Timerino. Why do the institute have real delusions if the courts ignore it? Since the text of the proposed law has also provided us with information that judges will pass additional education in relation to the application of the new law, it would not harm the need for all provisions of the law with equal attention to be applied because they are not in the text of the law for the sake of decoration or a more democratic appearance of the law. In accordance with Article 110 of the proposed law on infringements, it is prescribed that, in the event that the court considers that it is not really competent to act, the decision shall be notified to the competent court or to another competent authority without delay. It's okay. It is not right that, contrary to that, Article 184 paragraph 2 of the same law, the provision states that the court will reject the request to initiate an infringement procedure in the event of actual incompetence. These two legal provisions are contradictory. Either the court rejects the request because of indemnity or is advertised to the competent authority and the subject-matter is subject to the jurisdiction of the competent authority. I consider it necessary from this proposed law to delete Article 2(2). What I was saying and about the institution of real error also applies to the provisions of Chapter 17 of the proposed Law on Infringements which regulate the issue of property-legal claim damaged. Article 169(2) states that the property-legal requirement will, as a rule, be discussed in a misdemeanour procedure, unless a more significant extension of the procedure is made. I'm convinced that law enforcement judges will not even try to discuss property-law requirements, as judges in criminal cases do. This must be an additional topic for the aforementioned education of judges. An abnormal network of courts that has been functioning since 1 January 2010, has led to the overcrowding of a significant part of the judges. Under these circumstances, they are under constant pressure to solve cases, and they have no idea that they are also solving a small case. On the other hand, the question - how many criminal judges, as well as judges, are trained to resolve property-legal requirements is necessary to know the laws they do not apply, such as The Law on Liabilities, and Dr. I publicly welcome this legal solution that courts will, as a rule, address property-legal requirements, because this makes the whole judicial process more effective. What if, like so far, he's waiting for the end of a criminal, criminal or criminal trial to begin a new trial, a litigation, in connection with one of these same life events? With a little extra effort and education, judges of criminal and criminal courts will benefit the state and the citizens will be great. I consider a very good solution to the Institute of Criminal Order, as well as a payment order in a lawyer. What makes it possible for both the state and the citizens to expose themselves to a lot of costs, if all can be justly and legally completed in a shorter and cheaper procedure? Finally, it is necessary to welcome the authors of the bill's proposal to significantly reduce the number of court proceedings by introducing a plea agreement, such as practice in developed countries, and from recently in our criminal legislation. It is an effective judicial mechanism and should be supported as such. It is very important to change the awareness of both citizens and judicial actors. Is the prosecutor's settlement and the defendant's consequences of taking bribes? Many will say that it is, because corruption in the judiciary in our country, right or wrong, is a certain category of public opinion. Therefore, many prosecutors, applicants, will request a plea for a sentence to be imposed by the court in the event of a conviction. The defendant in that case has no interest in a settlement. But it is often more important for prosecutors not to be told that they have been bribed, because they have agreed to a milder sanction and as a result this institute will not be able to live in criminal or criminal proceedings. In general, I consider this bill professionally and qualitatively done with certain efforts that your ministry, Mr. Minister, and the High Council of the judiciary and other bodies responsible for the conduct of the infringement procedure, and particularly the judges. I believe that in this segment of the judiciary, progress will be evident to the satisfaction of both states and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21439	The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21440	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow Members of the People, I will talk about three areas of human rights regarding the draft law on violations. One refers to the rights of the child, i.e. I will talk about minors within the draft law on violations, gender equality, or respect for women's dignity in the process and the official use of language. I'm going to go way too far with the underage provisions. I support all those colleagues who spoke against a prison sentence for minors. I think it's in an offence of too severe punishment, it's on the one hand. On the other hand, Article 37. The Convention on the Rights of the Child says – for minors jail and detention can be used as the last possible measure and as soon as possible. Indeed, for minors, this law provides for shorter prison sentences than for adults. At the same time, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and many provisions in our legislation point to when minors serve a prison sentence, they should be kept in mind of their dignity, the needs of their age, and that the punishment is served separately from adults. One of the essential things in our society is that everything that is taken into account in the legal initiative and in the realisation of the law should be kept in mind, that is, our desire and our intensity to integrate a minor into society and to train him to be a responsible citizen of this society. As my colleague Konstantinovic spoke of the conditions in which we serve minors, I don't think we would achieve the basic goals we should achieve in prison. On the contrary, instead of focusing in one right direction the child would be directed in the opposite direction by serving in an inadequate manner a prison sentence. On the other hand, I'd like to mention the section relating to the publication of the verdicts when it comes to underage violations. Since the public is excluded from the rest of the procedure, I assume it is more a mistake than a wish that what is being excluded from the proceedings is subsequently published. It would be like if we had a closed session of the National Assembly over the megaphone playing and advertising outside of this building. It should be coordinated. What DS MPs advocate is that minors are being detained solely on the basis of the court's orders, that even after the court's arrest, the court's order is required to retain a minor, not only by order of an authorised police officer and that it is a good thing that mandatory notice of parents, guardians or custody authorities is being introduced in the part of these provisions. In part of the provisions of this same law, we do not have consistency, we are given the possibility of an assessment, that is, if there are conditions, and we know that such broad definitions, inaccurate, lead to direct violations of human rights, in this case very sensitive human rights. Children are a special group, very specific and especially sensitive. We feel that this category needs more careful consideration of these provisions and bringing them in... There are many amendments that can be accepted and with the help of the parent board to make a number of amendments that are acceptable to the legislator and MPs, which would circle this matter. I would support my colleague Gordana Komic's discussion in the part of those children who, it's a large group, we see it on the streets of cities daily, children without parents, without guardians. For them, we don't know if they have any documents, we don't know if they have a residence. There's no custody authority that cares about them. Unfortunately, they are taken care of by the street and at which stop in a specific city and should be informed instead of parents of the appropriate social work center. We have proposed two social work centres to our amendments. If he has a place of residence, where he has a place of residence, and if he has no place of residence, then to a place where he has been wronged. Also, a very important issue for human rights is the right of national minorities, and as part of this is the official use of language and letter in the procedure before state authorities, it is particularly sensitive to the procedure before judicial authorities. What colleagues have been saying from two other parliamentary groups, and our parliamentary group has an amendment that refers precisely to a more precise determination towards using the language and letters of the national minority. In fact, as far as I can see, the amendments are identical, all suggest that a portion of a sentence be deleted, which is practically alluded to so that the judge can voluntarily decide whether anyone has the right to use his own language, or to grant him constitutionally guaranteed rights or not to grant him the right to use it. It's not the intensity of the promoter, I'm almost sure, because I read the explanation carefully, but it's just something we draw attention to. If so many MPs have drawn attention to the same thing, it should be assumed that this provision is not clear enough, precise enough and that it can create volunteerism in action, and when it comes to such human rights it should be very careful. I'd like to draw attention to one more piece, and it's a search. In the search work, as the search is carried out with the presence of the official and two witnesses, the bill says that when a woman is being searched, the official person who is being searched should be a woman, while being released from the sight of two witnesses, that is, that all participants in the process should be the same sex as that person who is being searched. It's very important in terms of human rights and safeguarding dignity, because it's actually one of the fundamental postulates of our judicial system, that no matter what procedure it is we have to make sure that we safeguard human dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21441	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21442	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us with a bill on violations, which, according to its contents, contains elements of efficiency, economics and justice. Also, the draft law on violations achieves legal certainty in the area of crime and in a dignified way restores the reputation and honor of criminal courts, as well as the reputation and honor of judges working in criminal courts. Mr. Minister, this is not a small step, this is a huge step towards reforming the judicial system and the adoption of an adequate law, since you have inherited a truly remote judicial system. At this great step of passing this bill of violations, I congratulate you. I'll be based on the Law of Infractions, head 6 and head 33, concerning the provisions of the juveniles. I should say right away that, as far as minors and children are concerned, when they happen to manifest behavior that is illegal, or criminally, they are not invisible. According to Article 291 of the Criminal Code, the provisions of the Law on juvenile offenders and the protection of minors are also applied accordingly. This means that during the first interview and the first interview at the police station, a police officer should not, or against the law, act unless he provides for the presence of parents, guardians, legal counsel. If they're not there, it's that so-called. Invisible children and it is the duty of the Ministry of the Interior to call immediately upon the representative of the custody authority. In accordance with the Social Protection Act, and also with family law, social labour centres are required, within the framework of urgent interventions in the legal obligation, to continue to assume, within 24 now invisible children, as I say, the temporary guardian's security and the legal powers that arise from their laws. Mr. Minister, in article 71, you removed one of the termological inconsistencies that had been in the previous law, in the sense that legal provisions concerning violations were not implemented against minors, as it had previously been, but against minors. The legal language is precise, it is concise, but in this way you have shown that the legal language is sensitive to a particularly sensitive group, and these are children and minors. In this way, Article 81 also shows an appropriate fundamental attitude towards children and minors. By Article 72 of the Law, you have also extended responsibility for the offences committed, and because of the failure of the duty of supervision to fosterers, or other persons whose consequence is the child’s violation of the duty of supervision. The child learns education, and through education and behavior, above all in their families, whether they are biological, whether they are foster, whether they are related, whether they are institutions of social protection for children without parental ageing, and children learn both in preschool institutions and schools. There are situations where parents, foster parents and guardians are not physically able to monitor children. These are cases where children are found in preschools, schools and field trips. Of course, it is a duty that responsibility for child behavior should be taken over by educators, teachers, and foster parents. School isn't just an educational institution, it's a school and an educational institution. In the largest number of situations, as far as children's violations are concerned, these violations are due to the situational nature, not the result of educational devastation. In that sense, responsibility for such behavior should be taken by those who oversee the behavior of a child, or minor. The Law on the founding of a system of education and training provides for the duties of students, but also the responsibility of pupils, or minors, if they violate the rules of conduct. The law also provides for the obligation of the school, i.e. preschool institutions, to cooperate with a minor, a minor child, or his parents, guardians, fosterers, legal counsel, custody authorities, to take measures in the jurisdiction of the school in order to correct the behaviour of minors. As for the special obligations imposed on minors, to note that compared to minors, those are from the age of fourteen to the eighteen, or younger minors from the age of 14 to the sixteen and older minors from the age of 16 to the 18, educational measures may be imposed, penalties may be imposed, special obligations may be imposed and the sentence of juvenile prison may be imposed. These are so-called sanctions. So when it comes to minors, it's sanctions. As far as this law applies to minors, one newspaper is provided here, that the criminal court may impose a punitive measure of reproof and an educational measure of fines and without the opinion of the custody authority, if the custody authority, or social labour centres, does not deliver an opinion to the criminal court within 60 days. Otherwise, to point out that, in the course of decision-making against minors, before the start of the decision, the infringement court shall submit a request to the custody authority as competent to carry out tasks in the field of protection of minors for the delivery of opinions. The sentence of juvenile prison is absolutely impossible for a criminal court to give prior to the delivery of the opinion of the custody authority, or the social work centre. That's the ultimate measure. It is pronounced only in exceptional cases, and only if it is an elderly minor, or a person aged 16 to 18, if he has been punished earlier, or if he is a person who is in a permanent relapse. So she's said up to 30 days. There is no way that this law and the treatment of minors can be potentiated on this sentence, because, again, the law stipulates that it is only pronounced as an ultimate measure, or when it can surely be claimed that, on the basis of the mental development of a minor, he was fully aware of the consequences that such behaviour could result from. As far as the educational measures spoken to minors are concerned, that's reprimand. It is, of course, pronounced in those cases where a minor is present with a sincere sense of guilt and remorse, when a minor has full insight into the negativity of continuing his conduct and when there is the consent of a minor that a relapse will not occur. Of course, the court is in a legal obligation, and in accordance with the law of law, that and the minor to whom the educational measure has been imposed - reproof indicates the negative consequences of the conduct that is contrary to the law and to suggest that in the event of a continuation of such behaviour that is against the law, this educational measure may be replaced by someone else. As regards educational measures, which relate to specific obligations, I can point out from my long-term work experience with minors that they are very important in the plan for prevention, i.e. to plan for a relapse not to occur, a particular measure of special commitment relating to voluntary humanitarian work that can be of ecological, social and local importance. Of course, the implementation of these educational measures is carried out by the custody bodies, i.e. social work centres, with the active participation of minors, parents or guardians or legal representative or fosterer. Of course, on the effects of the enforcement of this educational measure, custody authorities are obliged to notify the criminal court. These special obligations have been made under the 2005 Law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors. As an expert who has spent many years protecting minors, I find them very important in the plan to prevent the misbehave of minors. Of course, the procedure for minors is urgent, that this procedure excludes the public, so that an analogous solution relating to minors should not be made public, in this respect amendments have been tabled. I hope that's the mistake that got stolen. Of course, in the process to be followed by a minor, a misdemeanor procedure other than minors, they are actively involved in the proceedings themselves and in the process of proceedings and parents or guardian or legal counsel and guardian authority, and can certainly, apart from their involvement, bring about all the facts that are essential for an infringement court to take an adequate measure towards a minor. Also, this law also provides for the obligation of a criminal court to deliver its decisions to the custody authority because the custody body, when it delivers opinions to the court in a misdemeanor procedure, other than its mental development, its mental maturity, its socio-economic state of the family in which he lives, his behaviour in the family, his behaviour in school, the court also provides the fact that a minor was previously given some of the educational measures and what effect the educational measure was given. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-18-0.u21443	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, today we finish our work and continue Monday 22nd of July at 10.00 p.m. The next speaker is Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Thank you very much. Bon appétit.
